http://www.express.co.uk/news/politics/661166/EU-migrant-relocation-plan-dead-Poland-refuse-take-in-asylum-seekers
203
20
EURACTIV/GETTY Poland has declared the EU's migrant relocation plan 'dead'

A senior Polish politician sad virtually none of the bloc's 28 members will agree to the controversial quota system in yet another huge body blow to the federalist project. Brussels bureaucrats had hoped to bring in a legal requirement for nations to accept allocations of 120,000 migrants to help ease the burden on certain countries, especially Greece and Germany.

Poland has been ordered to take in 7,000 asylum seekers as part of the project, which Britain is not involved in because it is outside the Schengen free movement zone. But today the country's deputy foreign minister, Konrad Szymanski, told the newspaper Dziennik Gazeta Prawna his Government would refuse to accept a single migrant, adding that the scheme is already "dead".

GETTY Polish politicians say virtually no countries will accept the controversial scheme

REUTERS The EU had hatched plans to relocate more than 120,000 migrants

He said: "I don't see a possibility to implement this decision and I can't see it happen also in most EU countries. This decision is dead. "It was not being implemented from the very beginning and nothing points to the fact that the majority of EU countries would implement it." Brussels pledged to relocate some 120,000 migrants when it launched the scheme amid much fanfare last September, but so far just 300 have been resettled. The flow of refugees and migrants from the Middle East and Africa to Europe, which rose to over a million last year, has slowed since the closing of borders along the Balkan route, but officials expect it to surge again with warmer weather.

GETTY Poland said letting in migrants was a security threat

GETTY The number of migrants arriving in Europe is set to rise as the weather improves

This decision is dead Polish minister Konrad Szymanski

Mr Szymanski also insisted Warsaw could not take in its quota of migrants without seriously compromising its citizens' security, in light of the Islamic State (ISIS) massacre in Paris which killed 130 people, and the recent Brussels bombings. His remarks signal a U-turn in the Polish government's stance with his boss, Foreign Minister Witold Waszczykowski, saying as recently as January it would respect the quota deal even though it regarded it as legally flawed. Poland's refugee quota is small compared to larger EU countries but its new government is one of the loudest opponents of the plan.