http://azertag.az/en/xeber/Jordanian_public_activist_We_need_to_make_efforts_to_ensure_that_UN_imposes_sanctions_on_Armenia-943084
202
20
Amman, April 14, AZERTAC

“The recent fighting on the line of contact near the Nagorno-Karabakh region and armed clashes have once again demonstrated a need for a speedy settlement of this long-running conflict on the basis of principles of international law,” famous Jordanian public activist, historian and author of “Nagorno-Karabakh conflict and international law (Republic of Azerbaijan)” book Omar al-Armuti has told AZERTAC.

Al-Armuti said the Azerbaijani army gave an adequate response to Armenian provocation. "I know that millions of Azerbaijanis are ready to sacrifice themselves to liberate the occupied lands. Azerbaijan has great military potential and strong army capable to liberate its territory. However, Azerbaijan is committed to peaceful political settlement of the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, and this demonstrates the wise policy of the country under the leadership of President Ilham Aliyev,” he said.

Omar al-Armuti also pointed out that the unsettled Armenian-Azerbaijani Nagorno-Karabakh conflict is “a powder keg that could explode at any time” and a threat to regional and international stability and security. "The Azerbaijani people have suffered from the aggressive policy of Armenia, which has pursued a policy of ethnic cleansing and expulsion of the indigenous Azerbaijani population from their territories for many years. As a result, more than one million people became refugees and IDPs. In addition, Armenia has committed one of the cruelest atrocities in human history - the Khojaly massacre, which is being rated as a genocide and a crime against humanity,” said the historian.

According to him, the international community, the leading countries need to exert pressure on Armenia. "I believe that one of the possible solutions to this problem is seeking the imposition by the UN of international sanctions on Armenia, including effective economic blockade, ban on air traffic and other measures.” “Such UN actions might force Armenia to fulfill four UN resolutions on Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, which recognize the territorial integrity of the Republic of Azerbaijan," said al-Armuti.

Asya Hajizade

Special Correspondent