http://abcnews4.com/news/education-news/north-charlestons-school-resource-officer-program-sees-increase-in-reports-as-a-good-thin
203
20
School resource officers serve a diverse role with many duties and responsibilities, and the only city in the Lowcountry to have an officer in every school is North Charleston.

The full-time program started in 2013, and records show in the three years since the program launched the number of incidents at schools have increased -- but that doesn't mean arrests have increased in the schools.

It's not uncommon to find North Charleston school resource officer Kirk Hanson in the classroom teaching life lessons.

"Someone give me some examples of intimidation," asked Hanson to a group of students.

He is a cop who can relate to the hardships of being a teen.

"Growing up, I was one of these kids. I never got in trouble with the law, but at home I was always getting in trouble with my mom, home issues," Hanson said.

Those experiences are now a platform for his career as a school resource officer.

"I hope you are staying out of trouble," Hanson told a student as he walked down the school's hallway.

Five days a week, Hanson patrols the halls performing security checks. He also helps teach classes on bulling and gang activity.

"You come here not expecting anything in return, but just to hear that they are doing well, that is enough joy for me," Hanson said.

Lt. Kathi Love is Hanson's supervisor. She says in 2012, the Sandy Hook school massacre in Connecticut shed light on the great need for security. An SRO was added to all 32 schools in North Charleston.

It's the only city in the Tri-County area to do so.

"I think it is important that we invest our time in our youth, because they are our future," Love said.

Three years after the program started, ABC News 4 pulled the stats for the number of reports filed in North Charleston schools.

In the 2012-2013 school year, there were 707 reports filed at North Charleston schools. The following year, there were 814 reports filed. And in the 2014-2015 school year, there were 1,080 reports filed.

Officials did not have information available for the current school year, but the biggest jump happened last year, a growth of 32 percent.

"I think when people see our numbers they think it's all arrests, and it's not," Lt. Love said.

According to Lt. Love, prior to 2013 if a child reported a family or community issue, the Department of Social Services was contacted. Now, with an officer in every school, he or she writes the report and contacts DSS.

"It's perfect that a kid is reporting that Uncle Joe sexually assaulted them or Aunt Suzie burned them with a cigarette. We are building that rapport to protect these children. So if those numbers go up, I'm okay with that because I know that child is going to be okay now because we are going to get the right help," Love said.

Graduate Jaymes McCloud is proof of the North Charleston SRO success. While he never reported any major issues, the 24-year-old says the "real world" mentorship was critical.

"Realistically there were several instances where things could have gone left and if it wasn't for her wisdom, for her time and attention to my growth, my success, things would have shifted," McCloud said.

The program costs $4 million a year.

While the city admits it's expensive, Officer Hanson says the impact long term is invaluable.

"I think if I could touch them here, guide them here, it will be a safer community out there," he said.