http://www.dnaindia.com/india/report-after-26-years-a-memorial-for-kashmiri-pandits-slain-by-militants-2167806
203
20
Coming soon, martyrs memorial for the Kashmiri Pandits killed by the militants in the valley.

On the 26th `holocaust' day, Kashmiri Pandits laid the foundation stone for the first-of-its-kind martyrs memorial at the Nadimarg village of south Kashmir's Pulwama district.

Nadimarg was chosen deliberately for the memorial given its tragic and bloodied history. On the night of March 22-23, 2003, militants mowed down 24 Kashmiri Pandits including infants in a gruesome manner sending shock waves across the nation and triggering migration of minuscule minority community members from this village.

Thirteen years on, All Parties Migrants Coordination Committee (APMCC), an apex body of migrant Kashmiri pandits, visited the site of massacre and laid a foundation for the memorial aimed at respecting the martyrdom of pandits.

"The construction work of the memorial will start after winter from April and it will take few months for its completion. It will be the fitting tribute to those people killed by the militants in the last 26 years of militancy," Vinod Pandit, chairperson of APMCC, told dna.

The memorial is being built on the land owned by Kashmiri Pandits and will have names of all the martyrs, including Sikhs engraved in it. "All the martyrs including those of Wandhama, Sangram Pora, Chattisinghpora, Prankot in Udhampur and Kalu Chak in Jammu will be remembered through this memorial whose names would be engraved on the plaques of the Martyrs Memorial," Pandit said.

Official figures reveal that around 209 pandits were killed by militants since the inception of militancy in 1990. A 2011 study by Kashmir Pandit Sangrash Simiti (KPSS), an apex body of non-migrant pandits, listed 399 killings of Pandits from 1990-2010.

According to KPSS study, 1990 has been the most bloody with 302 pandits killed in the first 10 months. Of these 164 were killed in June and July alone in the same year. Migrant Kashmiri however rejected the figures, claiming that the number of pandits slain is much higher than official figures and the 2011 study.

"The Kashmiri Pandit community was made the selected victim of terror and terrorism, murder and mayhem on a large scale resulting in their mass exodus from the valley. Genocide against the Kashmiri Pandit community was used as a strong weapon to achieve ethnic cleansing by the fundamentalists and terrorists in the Kashmir valley", said Virender Raina, national spokesperson of Panun Kashmir.

Official figures reveal that around 41,117 migrant families from Kashmir are registered in Jammu and 21,000 others in Delhi and other states. Of the total migrant families living in Jammu, 37128 are Hindus, 2246 Muslim 1738 Sikhs and five others.

"We demand that the Internally Displaced People status as recommended by the Parliamentary Committees be granted to the community living in exile for the last 26 years," said Raina.