http://morningstaronline.co.uk/a-2f69-Iraqi-Kurdish-forces-accused-of-committing-war-crimes
203
20
AMNESTY International accused Iraqi Kurdish forces fighting Islamic State (Isis) yesterday of ethnically cleansing Arab villages.

The rights group claimed that peshmerga troops of the Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG) had bulldozed, burned and blown up thousands of homes in villages liberated from Isis.

It also said that Arab civilians were barred from returning to their villages.

The KRG claims that civilians are being prevented from returning to their homes for their own safety as Isis routinely leaves explosive booby-traps behind when it retreats from an area.

Amnesty said the demolitions were in reprisal for alleged support for Isis among northern Iraqi Arab communities.

Amnesty senior crisis adviser in Northern Iraq Donatella Rovera said: “The forced displacement of civilians and the deliberate destruction of homes and property without military justification may amount to war crimes.”

The group noted the “significant humanitarian and security” pressures on the Kurds as they took in masses of refugees but warned of a “wider pattern” of consolidating territorial gains and retaliation for Isis atrocities.

Amnesty levelled similar charges last October against the Syrian Kurdish People’s Protection Units (YPG). The militia dismissed them as “biased, unprofessional and politicised” and it accused Amnesty of “deepening ethnic tensions” between Arabs and Kurds.

The Assembly of Arab Tribes in Syrian Kurdistan attributed those claims to “sources that want to eliminate the love and co-existence among all social circles of the region and replace it with enmity.”

Amnesty has also detailed Russian air strikes against Syrian civilians — which the US government has seized upon in the political war of words preceding this month’s peace talks.

Turkish Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, during a visit to London on Tuesday, objected to the YPG’s parent organisation the Democratic Union Party (PYD) being included in the talks.

Mr Davutoglu claimed the PYD — allied to the Turkish Kurdistan Workers’ Party and which Ankara also considers a terrorist organisation — was a “direct threat to Turkey.”