http://www.independentsentinel.com/isis-and-iran-control-iraq-through-slavery-torture-genocide-and-indoctrination/
203
20
Iraq is lost unless there is some kind of serious intervention. ISIS is destroying all other religions and history, enslaving Iraqis as they have enslaved Christians, Yazidis, Assyrians, Turks, Kurds, and others, and they are killing with fiendish pleasure. Iran is not killing ISIS as they claimed, they are killing or indoctrinating Iraqis.

St. Elijah’s Monastery stood as a place of worship for 1,400 years, including most recently for U.S. troops. Although the roof was largely missing, it had 26 distinctive rooms including a sanctuary and chapel.

It now joins more than 100 ancient buildings destroyed by ISIS.

You can see the before and after pictures of the religious fortress that stood on a hill above Mosul for centuries.

On the other side of the world, in his office in exile, in Erbil, Iraq, Catholic priest Rev. Paul Thabit Habib, 39, stared in disbelief at the before- and after- images, Fox News reported.

“Our Christian history in Mosul is being barbarically leveled,” he said in Arabic. “We see it as an attempt to expel us from Iraq, eliminating and finishing our existence in this land.”

ISIS, which now controls large parts of Iraq and Syria, has killed thousands of civilians in the past two years.

The UN, good for listing and counting atrocities, has published a report, released Tuesday that details the horrific impact of the fighting in Iraq. Much of the suffering is caused by ISIS.

ISIS has conscripted approximately 3,500 Iraqis into slavery from the start of 2014 until Oct. 31 of last year.

While whiners in America bemoan slavery in the US prior to the 1860s, they don’t care at all about the slavery today.

Another 800 to 900 children were abducted from Iraq’s second largest city, Mosul, for religious and military training. The UN report also said a number of ISIS child soldiers were killed by the extremists when they tried to flee fighting in the western Anbar province.

At least 18,802 Iraqis have been killed and another 36,245 wounded.

They systematically kill their victims with public beheadings, running people over with bulldozers, burning them alive and throwing them off buildings.

Such acts are “systematic and widespread … abuses of international human rights law and humanitarian law,” the report said. “These acts may, in some instances, amount to war crimes, crimes against humanity, and possibly genocide.”

U.N. human rights chief Zeid Raad al-Hussein said the civilian death toll may be considerably higher.

“Even the obscene casualty figures fail to accurately reflect exactly how terribly civilians are suffering in Iraq,” he said in a statement.

Shiite militias who are answerable to the Ayatollah recently kidnapped three contractors with US citizenship – two men and one women. Is Iran replenishing their supply of US hostages as foretold? They certainly aren’t fighting ISIS. They are also wiping out the Iraqis.

Foreign Policy Magazine reported last year that even indirectly relying on Iranian agents to conduct a credible ground war against Sunni extremists was always a lousy idea for three reasons: those agents hate the United States and have threatened to attack its interest in Iraq; they’re guilty of IS-style atrocities themselves; and they’re lousy at fighting an entrenched jihadist insurgency.

“Throughout the summer of 2014,” A March 10 2015 UN report noted, “[PMUs], other volunteers and [Shiite] militia moved from their southern heartlands towards [Islamic State]-controlled areas in central and northern Iraq. While their military campaign against the group gained ground, the militias seem to operate with total impunity, leaving a trail of death and destruction in their wake.”

Sunni villages in Amerli and Suleiman Bek, in the Salah ad-Din province, have been looted or destroyed by Shiite militiamen.

The US is providing air cover for Iranians engaged in ethnic cleansing.

Human Rights Watch discovered that the “liberation” of Amerli last October — another PMU/Iranian-led endeavor, abetted by U.S. airstrikes in the early stages — was characterized by wide-scale abuses including the looting and burning of homes and business of Sunni residents of villages surrounding Amerli.

The apparent aim was ethnic cleansing. Human Rights Watch concluded, from witness accounts, that “building destruction in at least 47 predominantly Sunni villages was methodical and driven by revenge and intended to alter the demographic composition of Iraq’s traditionally diverse provinces of Salah al-Din and Kirkuk.”

Shiite Turkmen are also targeted by Iran.

Iran pretends everyone is ISIS so they can kill them.

Posters of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini and Ayatollah Ali Khamenei and other Iranian terrorists are now omnipresent in the Iraqi capital where ones of Saddam Hussein used to be. They line every street.

Gen. David Petraeus, Kurdish intelligence chief Masrour Barzani, and most leaders acknowledge that Shiite militias pose more of a long-term threat to the stability of Iraq than does the Islamic State. .

No one knows who the good guys are in Iraq any longer.

Iraqis don’t want to be a satellite of Iran’s but most of the “units” in the PMUs are well-known subsidiaries of the Quds Force. “The indoctrination they’ve been getting is anti-American, Khomeinist ideology,” said Phillip Smyth, an expert on Shiite militias and author of a comprehensive survey of them put out by the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. “Sectarianism has been promoted whether we like it or not.”

The enemy is America thanks to Iran and they would rather be a satrapy of the Mullahs.

Since Obama has made Iran into a regional power, we will no longer get honest reports from the UN but the atrocities will continue unabated. Iran will be the ruler of the Middle East in the end.