http://farandulife.com/2016/01/20-dead-after-attack-on-pakistan-university/
202
20
Pakistan's Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif condemned the attack and vowed to destroy "the menace of terrorism". "We offer our deepest condolences to the victims and their families during this time of grief", he said, adding that the United States supports Pakistan's efforts to bring to justice those behind the attack.

However, most of the internet did not seem to note the seemingly innocent yet significant blunder as the name mix-up went mostly unnoticed.

The prime minister declared a day of national mourning, according to the Associated Press of Pakistan.

The militants who attacked the Bacha Khan campus were killed following a gun battle with local security forces, who said they had concluded operations to clear the campus six hours after the attack began.

However, since then the Taliban group known as Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan backed away from the claim, according to The Express Tribune, an English-language Pakistani newspaper.

Wednesday's attack took place about 20 miles outside Peshawar, in the town of Charsadda.

Tennis match-fixing: Andy Murray says youngsters must be warned

Investigators believe several matches in major tournaments were fixed, including three at Wimbledon and at the French Open. Was it a doubles player, a singles player? "I don't think [it casts a shadow on the Australian Open]".

Teachers in northwest Pakistan were given permission to carry firearms in the classroom after Taliban militants massacred more than 150 people, the majority of them children, at a school in the city of Peshawar in 2014. He said both attacks were in retaliation for the Pakistani government's operations against militants in the region. All four attackers were killed, authorities said.

Several explosions were heard from the school, 35 kilometres outside Peshawar.

Four of the gunmen have been killed by security forces and the army has contained the militants to two blocks inside the university, a spokesman for the army said on twitter.

He said that Wednesday was an exam day and that a peace concert had been scheduled, so the campus was filled with students. This Pakistani militant group has launched numerous attacks on learning facilities in the country in recent years.

On Tuesday a suicide bomber blew himself up close to a police checkpoint in north-western Pakistan, killing at least 10 people and wounding more than 20, officials said.

Vice Chancellor Fazal Rahim told reporters that the Bacha Khan University teaches over 3,000 students and hosted an additional 600 visitors on Wednesday for a poetry recital. They timed the attack with a ceremony at the university.