http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/europe/belgian-police-detained-france-driving-van-refugees-trying-reach-uk-over-border-diplomatic-row-a7324556.html
131
13
Two Belgian police officers have been detained on accusations of “aiding illegal immigration” in France after driving van full of refugees to the border, sparking a diplomatic row between the two countries.

Belgian authorities said they were transporting migrants back to the neighbouring country but had not meant to cross into it.

The officers were at a border crossing near the northern French commune of Nieppe on Tuesday when an alarmed lorry driver heard noise coming from the unmarked vehicle.

UK officials visit Calais 'jungle' for talks on child refugees

He called police, who found 13 refugees from Syria and Iraq inside. They were reportedly aiming to reach the UK by journeying to Calais but had boarded a vehicle travelling in the wrong direction.

The two Belgian officers were briefly detained but released after interviews, with the asylum seekers, who include three children, being kept in custody for checks.

A spokesman for France’s Nord department said: “French authorities have expressed their utter disapproval following this initiative, which does not comply with the usual working practices between France and Belgium.”

Bernard Cazeneuve, the French interior minister, summoned the Belgian ambassador to express his “indignation” on Wednesday.

He also phoned his Belgian counterpart, Jan Jambon, sparking an angry response from Belgium’s SLFP police union, who are threatening to strike over the row.

Its president, Vincent Gilles, told the Associated Press the two officers had only passed a few yards into French territory and were held for four hours without a lawyer or interpreter.

He said the group of refugees had been detained in Belgium on Tuesday and that police were ordered to take them to the border so they could leave the country safely rather than walking along motorways.

Inside the camps in Calais







20 show all Inside the camps in Calais





































1/20 A Kurdish child and her father get out of their tent in the makeshift migrant camp in Grande-Synthe near Dunkerque

2/20 Kurdish migrants works around the tents of the makeshift migrant camp in Grande-Synthe near Dunkerque

3/20 Volunteers from Holland set up a bridge of fortune over the mud using pallets of the makeshift migrant camp in Grande-Synthe near Dunkerque

4/20 Refugees walk among tents in a makeshift camp as containers (rear) are put into place to house several hundred migrants living in what is known as the "Jungle", a squalid sprawling camp in Calais

5/20 A makeshift camp is seen in front of containers (rear) put into place to house several hundred migrants living in what is known as the "Jungle", a squalid sprawling camp in Calais

6/20 A makeshift camp is seen in front of containers (rear) put into place to house several hundred migrants living in what is known as the "Jungle", a squalid sprawling camp in Calais

7/20 Several containers recycled into rooms are aligned in this secured area located in the middle of the makeshift migrant's camp called 'The Jungle' in Calais. The new area of the camp is inaugurated as containers recycled as rooms will host its first occupants, only half of a capacity of 1500 places will be filled. Between 4000 and 7000 mrefugees are currently living in 'The Jungle'

8/20 Volunteers work prior the inauguration of the secured area of the makeshift migrant camp called 'The Jungle' where several containers were recycled into rooms in Calais

9/20 Members of the association "La Vie Active" prepare a dormitory in a shipping container converted into a home, at the entrance of the Calais refugee camp

10/20 Members of the association "La Vie Active" prepare a dormitory in a shipping container converted into a home, at the entrance of the Calais refugee camp

11/20 Asylum seekers in Calais The camp near Calais harbour where refugees from the Middle East and central Asia congregate to attempt the crossing from France to the UK Justin Sutcliffe

12/20 Asylum seekers in Calais Most of the temporary residents in this camp are from Afghanistan, Pakistan, Syria or the Kurdish administered regions Justin Sutcliffe

13/20 Asylum seekers in Calais Camp residents cook and share food at their site just outside Calais Justin Sutcliffe

14/20 Asylum seekers in Calais A group walk through the camp near Calais Justin Sutcliffe

15/20 Asylum seekers in Calais Most of the temporary residents in this camp are from Afghanistan, Pakistan, Syria or the Kurdish administered regions

16/20 Asylum seekers in Calais A 16 year old immigrant from Eritrea tries to brace himself against the rain and cold by sheltering under the road bridge Justin Sutcliffe

17/20 Asylum seekers in Calais Rubbish strewn on the ground near one of the campsites

18/20 Asylum seekers in Calais A man stands among the tents at the campsite just outside Calais, France

19/20 Asylum seekers in Calais A camp near Calais harbour where migrants from the East africa congregate to attempt the crossing from France to the UK. Most of the temporary residents in this camp are from Eritrea.

20/20 Asylum seekers in Calais Graffiti depicting the dangerous journey trying to smuggle onto a lorry to the UK

“Our colleagues did not notice they had passed the border by around 50 metres,” Mr Gilles added.

The union has given official notification that it will mount a 24-hour strike next week unless Mr Jambon arranges a meeting with police.

Georges Aeck, the commissioner of Ypres police in Belgium, was outraged.

“We didn’t do it for money, this isn't human trafficking,” he told Belgian broadcaster RTBF. “We only gave them a hand. We took them a little way in the direction they wanted to go.”

Tensions between France and Belgium have lingered since the Paris attacks, which threw border controls into the spotlight after suspect Salah Abdeslam was allowed through checks while fleeing to Brussels on the night of the atrocity.

Many of the attackers had links to Belgium, where the plot was prepared, and Belgian counter-terror agencies have been accused of failing to prevent the massacres or catch those responsible.

Border controls were reintroduced between the two countries in February amid continued security concerns and concerns over a possible influx of asylum seekers evicted from the Jungle camp in Calais.