http://www.calgarysun.com/2016/04/01/when-it-comes-to-paying-for-plasma-lets-not-be-hypocrites---or-idiots
203
20
So, this is what passes for thoughtful discussion on public policy in Alberta.

Health Minister Sarah Hoffman was asked about a private company that wants to set up shop in Alberta after being driven out of Ontario by the government there.

The company, Canadian Plasma Resources, wants to open a clinic that “pays” donors by giving them retail gift cards.

Clearly, this is a form of evil on a par with the blood farm in Blade Trinity, where helpless humans are shrink-wrapped, suspended from the ceiling and drained in a farming operation only slightly more humane than producing veal. (2004. Wesley Snipes with a sword, Jessica Biel with a bow, arrow and charming pout, plus Ryan Reynolds with a never-ending supply of quips. Unjustly overlooked for that year’s best-picture Oscars.)

Apparently, there’s a shortage of free plasma for the creation of medicine in the world, partly because donating it is a bigger pain than donating blood.

You can donate every week … but it takes a couple of hours each time. Hence the lovely parting gifts to encourage donors to come back from the people at CPR.

Hoffman’s reaction when asked about this clinic possibly setting up in Alberta?

Predictable. And mindless.

“I’m not excited about the prospect of any pay for service.”

Hmmm.

Thinking about throwing your bloated politician’s salary back into the trough are we?

Isn’t that a pay-for-service arrangement?

Although describing what Hoffman or any politician does as a “service” is a stretch, I think.

And also: “Paying for essential life-saving blood, plasma, those types of things, makes me quite nervous, actually.”

As is usual when dealing with the NDP, what have we learned?

Well. We’ve learned how they feel.

Here’s a couple of things Sarah might want to know in case she decides to stop feeling feels and start thinking thinks.

Canadian Blood Services manages to collect about a quarter of the plasma to meet Canada’s needs.

The rest mostly comes from the U.S. Where. They. Pay. Their. Donors.

Let me repeat: Most of the blood plasma turned into medicine for sick Canadians comes from a system where they pay their donors.

That means opposing the same sort of system here can be summed up in a single word.

Hypocrisy.

Or idiocy. That’s a good one, too. Pick one. Your choice.

The skittishness around this hearkens back to the ’70s and ’80s when poor screening practices saw the blood supply contaminated and blood product recipients infected with HIV and other diseases.

No less an authority on this kind of thing than Dr. Graham Sher, head of Canadian Blood Services, told Postmedia in February: “If we did not have access to this paid donor system, there would be many, many thousands of patients in this country who would not have access to the life-saving drugs that they need.”

Postmedia also reported in March that Health Canada says since the introduction of modern manufacturing processes more than 24 years ago, “there has not been a single case of transmission of hepatitis B, hepatitis C or HIV caused by plasma products in Canada.”

If there’s a valid medical reason to oppose a pay-for-plasma operation in Canada, then let’s hear it.

Although how can there be one when the vast majority of our supply already comes from pay-for-plasma operations in another country?

If all opponents can come up with is: selling bodily fluids offends my delicate sensibilities?

When access to life-saving medication hangs in the balance?

I’m not sure that’s a good enough reason.