http://clubtroppo.com.au/2016/04/03/resurrection-of-the-history-wars/
202
20
As you can see from the above image, the Daily Telegraph revived John Howard’s History Wars the other day. Indeed they even disinterred Howard’s favourite undead RWNJ historian Keith Windschuttle to lend an air of faux integrity to the whole unedifying clickbait exercise:

Windschuttle’s characterisation of the historical international law position is in a sense accurate but also misleading and deceptive. Although Justice Brennan’s reasons in Mabo v Queensland (No 2) (1992) 175 CLR 1 are the ones most commonly cited, the decision of Deane and Gaudron JJ succinctly reveals the cynical duplicity inherent in Windschuttle’s statement:

The international law of the eighteenth century consisted essentially of the rules governing the relations and dealings among the nations of Europe. Under it, the three main theoretical methods by which a State could extend its sovereignty to new territory were cession, conquest and settlement. Settlement was initially seen as applicable only to unoccupied territory. The annexation of territory by “settlement” came, however, to be recognized as applying to newly “discovered” territory which was inhabited by native people who were not subject to the jurisdiction of another European State. The “discovery” of such territory was accepted as entitling a State to establish sovereignty over it by “settlement”, notwithstanding that the territory was not unoccupied and that the process of “settlement” involved negotiations with and/or hostilities against the native inhabitants.

In other words, as long as one could dismiss the Indigenous culture as “low on the scale of social organisation” (seldom a problem for the proud European racists of the 18th Century), the concept of “settlement” included invading territory that was not unoccupied and waging war against (and slaughtering) its native inhabitants. Accordingly, Windschuttle’s assertion about international law isn’t really saying anything at all about whether the British “invaded” Australia and slaughtered many of its original inhabitants. This article by Kate Galloway contains more detail about the notion of “settlement” and its 18th century interpretation.

Windschuttle’s core historical project has been that of Holocaust Denialism in relation to alleged massacres of Indigenous Australians by white settlers (and police). He argues that the reports of massacres are wildly exaggerated. John Howard as Prime Minister seized on Windschuttle’s work to launch the political History Wars and denounce “left-leaning” academics and lawyers (and Labor politicians) as the “black armband brigade“. Windschuttle relies on the fact that official records of white massacres are fairly sparse. But it would hardly be otherwise given that the official records were largely maintained by colonial police officers who were themselves prominent agents of slaughter.

The overwhelming majority of historians take issue with Windschuttle and his few supporters. Moreover, recent research suggests that the scale of the slaughter may well have been much greater than even the black armband brigade has heretofore claimed. As this article by Paul Daly outlines:

An instructive starting point: Indigenous warriors who resisted invasion certainly regarded it as war, as did numerous colonial authorities including governors, not least Lachlan Macquarie – a vicious, calculated murderer of his colony’s Indigenous people.

While conservative estimates would put Indigenous deaths at the hands of soldiers, “native police”, militia, explorers, miners and farmers at 30,000, recent credible academic research indicates the figure in Queensland alone was 65,000. Although violence against Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people was most extreme in Queensland, a conservative national extrapolation potentially adds another deeply unsettling dimension to Australia’s malevolent recent history.

A “conservative national extrapolation” assuming murders at only around half the apparent rate in Queensland suggests a total body count exceeding 200,000. Those numbers squarely raise the question of genocide, at least as a historical (though not legal) fact. Genocide was agitated unsuccessfully in the First Stolen Generations Case (Kruger & Ors v Commonwealth (1997) 190 CLR 1) in the context of an argument that the forced removal of Aboriginal children from their families constituted “cultural genocide”, and in Coe v Commonwealth (1993) 68 ALJR 110 (see brief summary) in relation to the broader concept of genocide including physical genocide. Both cases illustrate in different ways the insuperable difficulties facing any litigant seeking to prove genocide in a court of law and obtain any sort of legal remedy. The outcome of those cases doesn’t deny the reality of genocide, but emphasises that the legal system is not a very useful tool for obtaining social justice and redress. Any modern attempt to re-litigate the genocide question in light of research suggesting deliberate murders totalling over 200,000 would not only face the arguments that proved fatal in Kruger and Coe, but also the problem of proving a coherent genocidal intent. As my sometime CDU colleague Matthew Storey discusses in a 1998 article focusing on the Stolen Generations situation, genocide in international law will require proof of intent to destroy a racial group, whether in whole or in part. Even at its highest, the evidence does not prove this. Neither colonial authorities nor the Commonwealth manifested such an intent per se. They were simply willing to do whatever it took, up to and including wholesale slaughter on an industrial scale, to subdue the “natives” and achieve unchallenged control of Australia’s land mass.

Governor Macquarie’s attitude and contribution are encapsulated in this graphic:

The thing is, this isn’t merely an entertaining diversion for Mr Murdoch’s minions to use as circulation-boosting clickbait. The most recent large scale massacre of Aboriginal people was the Coniston Massacre here in the Northern Territory in 1928:

Official records at the time stated that 31 people were killed. The owner of Coniston station, Randall Stafford, was a member of the punitive party for the first few days and estimated that at least twice that number were killed between 14 August and 1 September. Historians estimate that at least 60 and as many as 110 Aboriginal men, women and children were killed. The Warlpiri, Anmatyerre and Kaytetye believe that up to 170 died between 14 August and 18 October.

Large numbers of the children and grandchildren of the Coniston survivors are still alive and coping with the consequences. Similarly with the sexual abuse of Aboriginal children at places like the Retta Dixon Home and the wider phenomenon of the Stolen Generations (whose reality Windschuttle also denies). The children and grandchildren of those victims also still live with the consequences: fractured families, violence, alcoholism, chronic unemployment and elevated levels of criminality.

Just as Godwin’s Law supposedly renders Nazi analogies unacceptable in civilised discourse, surely media clickbait beat-ups about whether Australia was invaded and its inhabitants slaughtered should also be regarded as beyond the pale.