http://www.thepost.on.ca/2016/05/12/anne-frank-inspired-play-coming-to-sacred-heart
202
20
The dedicated staff and students of Sacred Heart High School’s drama department are pleased to present Cherie Bennett’s Anne Frank & Me this May. The two hour production follows Nicole Burns, an average teenage girl who, through a harrowing journey that spans from modern-day Canada to Nazi-occupied France, discovers unsettling truths about herself and the world around her as she witnesses firsthand the horrors of the Holocaust.



The play opens with Nicole (Courtney Lair) and her friends preparing for an English test based on the play, The Diary of Anne Frank. Nicole creates a stir when she states that Anne Frank's famous diary is a fake and that details of the Holocaust are exaggerated. Appalled, her teacher, Ms. Zooms (Stephanie Brighton), berates Nicole for being a Holocaust denier. Unfazed, Nicole later goes to the school dance eager to meet with her friends and is thrilled when Jack (Kyle Vaughan) asks her to dance. Her young world is shattered, however, when he inadvertently rejects her causing her to run crying from the dance directly into the path of an oncoming car. With her life on the line, Nicole's world is turned upside down when she awakens in a disorientated state to discover that she is a Jewess living in Nazi occupied France in 1942.



Tension mounts when Nicole's father, Jean (Steven Travale) joins the resistance and endangers the very lives that he wishes to save. Whether it is fleeing from their home to hide in an attic, dealing with the betrayal of friends, or facing the hell of being transported on a cattle car, the lives of Nicole and her family forever change. The play rockets to a dramatic climax with a twist that will certainly keep audiences on the edges of their seats.



In order to capture the depth of character needed for their roles, students, recently travelled to a Jewish Synagogue and the Sarah and Chaim Neuberger Holocaust Education Centre in Toronto, where they were greeted by Museum Educator, Joyce Rifkind. She spoke of Hitler’s campaign of ethnic cleansing, where six million Jews, as well as members of other groups were killed, including those with mental and physical disabilities, members of the LGBT community, Romani or anyone who opposed Hitler and his regime.



After seeing the passports with a “J” emblazoned on them, the Star of David that Hitler forced Jews to wear, and the ragged striped clothing that people wore in the concentration camps, the drama students of Sacred Heart were left with a profound sense of the injustices and terrors that were felt under Hitler’s realm. Drama student Keira Johnson was overwhelmed with the number of Torontonians, alone, who had lost family members and wondered “what about all of the others around the world who suffered these indignities and death? It is horrible to see how so many were directly impacted”.



The cast then had the honour of meeting Holocaust survivor, Alexander Eisen, whom experienced the trauma of living in Nazi Occupied Vienna before escaping to Hungary with his family and losing his father to an arrest at the border. His oldest sister was sent to Auschwitz-Birkenau while Alex, his mother and other sister remained in in the Budapest Ghetto. They were fortunate enough to pass as Christians and escape the Ghetto evading SS patrols and nearly starving before being liberated in 1945, but not before losing many family and friends.



Students also listened with rapt attention to their co-hosts for the event, Phil Englishman and his sister, Katy, describe the fear of living as “Hidden Children” in Holland while having to cope with losing so many of their close family members in death camps before the war’s end. Kyle Vaughan, actor and Co-Producer, summed up the feelings of many after hearing Phil’s account: “We all knew we would be going on a very emotional, eye-opening trip, however, listening to Phil and the other speakers talk about their heart wrenching experiences made it all the more real”.



Through their research, the cast and crew hope that their production will enlighten their audiences and build an awareness about the toll the Holocaust and the second World War took upon so many innocent people. Steven Travale, who plays Jean, a Jewish resistance fighter in the play, shared that “we must learn from these past horrors in order to prevent a similar downward spiral in the future”.



Anne Frank & Me will hit the Crusader stage from May 25-28, 2016. Doors open at 7:00, with the show beginning at 7:30 pm. Tickets can be purchased at Marlin Travel Walkerton, the office of Sacred Heart High School, or at the door. Admission prices are $15.00 for adults and $10 for students and seniors. Mark your calendar for a memorable night of suspenseful and poignant drama that will remind us all of why we must all remain vigilant to the dangers of complacency in the face of tyranny.

