http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/lucknow-aishbagh-dussehra-mela-pm-modi-bjp-uri-avengers-surgical-strikes/1/784578.html
130
13
Highlights 1 Ramlila ground, with a seating capacity of 25,000 people, is under SPG control.

2 Modi would've taken part in Ravan Vadh in Bihar had there been polls there: Akhilesh.

3 Modi's visit to Lucknow has no 'politics' or 'hidden agenda': BJP.

Prime Minister Modi will attend the Aishbagh Dussehra Mela in Lucknow today, and the ruling BJP is projecting him as Lord Rama who would kill demon Ravana (interpret as Pakistan) in the aftermath of the surgical strikes across the LoC.

"Lucknow welcomes the avengers of Uri," the hoardings in the city declare, backing the assessment that the cross-border strikes in Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir were in retaliation for the 19 soldiers killed in September's terror attack at the army camp in Uri.

Poster welcoming Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Lucknow. (Image via Twitter)

PM's VISIT NOT POLITICAL: BJP

Meanwhile, rejecting Opposition's charge, the BJP has said Prime Minister Modi's visit to Lucknow has no 'politics' or 'hidden agenda'. "There is no politics or hidden agenda behind the prime minister's visit to the historic Dussehra Mela at Aishbagh ground," BJP national vice-president and Lucknow Mayor Dinesh Sharma said.

Also read:

Opinion: Why Modi is feeling special this Vijaya Dashami



"Ravan was the first terrorist and his effigy is burnt till this day... this is the feeling among countrymen and the prime minister is coming here to commemorate it," he said, adding it is a traditional event and is totally apolitical.

AKHILESH, MAYAWATI ATTACK MODI

Yesterday, Chief Minister Akhilesh said Modi would have taken part in Ravan Vadh in Bihar had there been election there, while BSP president Mayawati termed the visit as politically motivated.

Also read: If Rahul accused PM Modi of 'khoon ki dalali', there must be a reason: Akhilesh



"This (Modi's visit) is indicative of his belief and regard towards the land of composite culture (Lucknow)", Sharma said.

"The PM and people are aware Ravan was killed hundreds of years ago and it is celebrated every year. Then what has it to do with Uttar Pradesh elections which are next year," the BJP leader asked.

BJP SLAMS OPPOSITION

"Mayawati's party is facing desertion while the Samajwadi Party family is breaking up. I do not want to say this but their duty is to look after their parties first," he said.

A patron of the Aishbagh Ramlila committee, Sharma claimed the committee had been sending invitations to Presidents and PMs but this is the first time a PM has accepted it and will come here.

Also read: Modi government spreading hatred in Uttar Pradesh, says Mayawati



"We are taking the achievements of the party and the government to the people to mobilise votes in our favour. As part of that we are also enumerating the surgical strikes as one of our achievements and with a legitimate claim", Uttar Pradesh BJP spokesperson Chandra Mohan has said.

RAMLILA GROUND CAPACITY

He said the Ramlila ground, with a seating capacity of 25,000 people, is under the SPG control. Besides local policemen, central forces, a bomb disposal squad and RAF have also been deployed.

Besides the Union Home Minister and local MP, Rajnath Singh, Governor Ram Naik and UP BJP chief Keshav Prasad Maurya will also attend the function.



ALSO READ:

BJP, Opposition debate over evidence of Indian Army's surgical strikes

Lalu hails Army, flays BJP on surgical strikes

(WITH INPUTS FROM PTI)

