http://www.nairaland.com/2995931/military-confirms-death-two-soldiers
202
20
Nairaland Forum / Nairaland / General / Politics / Military Confirms Death Of Two Soldiers In Abonema, Rivers, Releases Statement (22625 Views)

Ogun Dried River: Lagos Government Releases Statement / Military Confirms Arrest Of Niger Delta Avengers, Masterminds Of Chevron Attacks / How Two Soldiers Were Killed In Boko Haram Ambush (1) (2) (3) (4)

(0) (1) (2) (3) (Reply) (Go Down)

The Nigerian Army 2 Brigade based in Port Harcourt issued a statement confirming an attack and death of an army officer suspected to be a major and one soldier in an encounter with gunmen suspected to be sea pirates.



“About 11:00 am today Thursday 17 March 16, troops on Patrol in Abonema, Degema Local Government Area of Rivers State had a fierce encounter with a group of unknown gunmen suspected to be sea pirates. Our men displayed extraordinary gallantry," Captain Eli Lazarus, the Assistant Army Public Relations Officer of 2 Brigade said in the statement.



“Unfortunately, an officer and a soldier who sustained various degrees of injury during the encounter lost their lives. We are in pursuit of the criminals and we will surely get them. All law abiding citizens are urged to remain calm and advised to go about their lawful activities.



“The army will continue to make necessary sacrifices to ensure sustainable peace and security of lives and property of every one in the state,” Captain Eli Lazarus said.



http://www.nigerianbulletin.com/threads/nigeria-military-issues-statement-over-killing-of-army-general-soldiers-in-rivers-state.190666/ 1 Like

rivers state election deserves the presence of soldiers in their large numbers ...



but the agatu massacre where more than 300 people including pregnant women and children where butchered did not deserve a single soldier





if you support this injustice... on your day of trouble, you will not find any help...



you will look for help,but you will not see and your persecutors will not be brought to justice as well... 111 Likes 12 Shares

Ok



I jus hope soldiers won't retaliate by killing dozens of innocent civilians ooo.

will advice ppl of dat area especially the particular place whre the soldiers were attacked to completely stay indoor ooo twoI jus hope soldiers won't retaliate by killing dozens of innocent civilians ooo.will advice ppl of dat area especially the particular place whre the soldiers were attacked to completely stay indoor ooo 10 Likes 1 Share

Ok

If you dey that community just begin relocate for now 11 Likes 1 Share

RIP TO THE GALLANT SOLDIERS, Nigeria your country hail thee..... #FALLENHEROES 5 Likes 1 Share

Let them keep sending soldiers to Rivers while Herdmen are having a field day in Benue. They want to win "oil producing State" by all means.



RIP to the soldiers. 40 Likes 3 Shares

If only our founding fathers had gone

their separate ways then there will be

nothing called Nigeria,so think,there is

something holding us together.

If only our leaders had been Leaders

but no they chose to be lenders

lending our treasury to their self.

If only every remittance from crude oil

from time immemorial had be used

wisely then our economy should be

better than Some mighty countries.

If only the money received from those

who commit corrupt practises where

used then Nigeria should be better no

money received also goes to

someone's account who would also

be accountable by a New Government

later in faraway future.

If only those who "Stole" our money

felt morose maybe those nursing the

ambition would have put an end to

the thoughts in their heart but No

those who carried out corrupt

practises are treated are given " VIP.

Treatment " in the prison .

If only Nigerians believe in Nigeria

maybe Nigeria would have been more

better but some Nigerians are already

tired of this association called

"N.I.G.E.R.I.A " and are ready to leave

to float their own Association whether

by force or peace.

If only our government had been

truthful and hadn't danced to the

gallery by providing "Honey-Sweet

Manifestoes" that aren't yet achievable

maybe if they had come out plain

Nigeria would have been better.

The "IFs" are so much that one keep

wondering,you hear that just one

Nigerian "Swallowed " billions then

you start thinking "Do they spend

Money in Heaven too?"

most of the population are living

below one dollar (present rate of

dollar to Naira).

May river Niger not leave the

Area,Nigeria will rise again!

from a Nigerian! 18 Likes 1 Share

Thank God the military didn't bring politics into it. 6 Likes





If katsina State can be relocated to Rivers and vice versa they can go ahead Mr. Buhari and his APC must desist from acts that can encourage the return of militancy through their utterances and actions. The oil money in Rivers State is not worth the blood of Rivers people.If katsina State can be relocated to Rivers and vice versa they can go ahead 7 Likes

sexyexcalibur:

rivers state election deserves the presence of soldiers in their large numbers ...



but the agatu massacre where more than 300 people including pregnant women and children where butchered did not deserve a single soldier





if you support this injustice... on your day of trouble, you will not find any help...



you will look for help,but you will not see and your persecutors will not be brought to justice as well...





In my opinion, deploying the Army to sort out internal security issues like that in Rivers and in Agatu....is not good security planning.



The Police should be the ones doing the job. Not the Army.



Anyway.....troops are being deployed....



The Nigerian government says it is preparing a legislation to prohibit pastoralists from allowing their cattle roam in villages and cities, following the massacre of hundreds in a farming community in Benue State by armed herdsmen.

Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Audu Ogbeh, said Thursday that the government was working on measures to stop the invasion of communities by herdsmen.

Speaking to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja, Mr. Ogbeh said that invasion and massacre of the indigenes by herdsmen was no longer acceptable to the government.

He said that a formation of the Nigerian Army had been deployed to the communities to restore peace.

“Yesterday, I spoke with the Ministers of Defence and Interior and they assured me that they have deployed a military formation in Enugu to move in and restore peace in Agatu. In my opinion, deploying the Army to sort out internal security issues like that in Rivers and in Agatu....is not good security planning.The Police should be the ones doing the job. Not the Army.Anyway.....troops are being deployed.... http://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/headlines/199447-agatu-massacre-nigeria-deploys-troops-ban-cattle-villages-cities.html 5 Likes 1 Share

OK na.... I still dey line to buy fuel 2 Likes

K

Rain is falling this morning in rivers state that's my situation report 13 Likes

sexyexcalibur:

rivers state election deserves the presence of soldiers in their large numbers ...



but the agatu massacre where more than 300 people including pregnant women and children where butchered did not deserve a single soldier





if you support this injustice... on your day of trouble, you will not find any help...



you will look for help,but you will not see and your persecutors will not be brought to justice as well...









"Anyone who support this APC injustice in Rivers and PDP controlled states, on your day of trouble, you will not find any help..." Ameen. "Anyone who support this APC injustice in Rivers and PDP controlled states, on your day of trouble, you will not find any help..." Ameen. 23 Likes 3 Shares

O ga ooooooooooo, may God help

en.. the rate of killing in portharcourt this days would make people out rivers state think its a war ground....



abeg small small ....all this political party, military killing should be ready oo, No go give my mama high BP for village because hin pikin dey portharcourt oo 4 Likes

lekahm:

Thank God the military didn't bring politics into it.

Exactly!



unknown gunmen suspected to be sea pirates. Exactly!unknown gunmen suspected to be sea pirates. 2 Likes

it is wel

:Dhmmmm,the Gods ar watchng ooo hmmmm,the Gods ar watchng ooo:Dhmmmm,the Gods ar watchng ooo

Asher79:







http://www.nigerianbulletin.com/threads/nigeria-military-issues-statement-over-killing-of-army-general-soldiers-in-rivers-state.190666/ Ameach wont like that the military didnt mention PDP 5 Likes 1 Share

It's so unfortunate. APC should stop heating up the polity 7 Likes

May God bless our gallant Soldiers

Well engineered killing...kill some soldiers, then use that as an excuse to bring in military to rig in favor of APC against the court assertion that NO MILITARY SHOULD BE DEPLOYED TO RIVERS. 10 Likes 1 Share

And all wike could do is to relocate his own family abroad! Hmmm! Governance at its best! 5 Likes 1 Share

When soldiers retaliates hope they won't call on Buhari 2 Likes 1 Share

?



Which cult does Wike belongs to sef ? Sea PiratesWhich cult does Wike belongs to sef 1 Like

Ameachi

Brb

May their souls rest in peace