http://malaya.com.ph/business-news/opinion/pompous-presidency
202
20
ALL throughout his pompous presidency that ends on June 30th, President Noynoy Aquino has blamed his predecessors and political foes for his innumerable blunders and failures since 2010.



Why, when the controversial Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP), otherwise known as the presidential pork barrel fund, was declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court, Aquino blamed even his friend and eminence grise, Secretary Florencio (Butch) Abad.



“If Aquino was not being a fault-finder,” as one critic bluntly put it, “he was sarcastic, when he should have been compassionate” as in the case of the families of 44 Special Action Force (SAF) police commandos who were

massacred in Mamasapano, Maguindanao, by Muslim terrorists. He was quoted as having told them, “Patas na tayo (Now we’re even), obviously alluding to the death of his father Senator Ninoy Aquino, supposedly by forces loyal to then President Ferdinand E. Marcos at the tarmac of the Manila International Airport in 1983.



Finally, at the annual commemoration of Rizal Day last December 30, Aquino called on all Filipinos “to reflect on the sacrifice of Dr. Jose P. Rizal to free our country from the shackles of abuse and inequality.”



Yes, indeed, the Filipino people will soon be freed from the “shackles of abuse and inequality” that marked Aquino’s administration, known for its dumb lies and awful bloviations!



***



What does the Paris climate change agreement, otherwise called COP21 that was approved by 159 countries late last year, mean for Asia?



First of all, the pact was “far from perfect, but it was more robust than many had anticipated in the run-up to COP21”, as reported by Nithin Coca, a writer on cultural, economic and environmental issues, in an article for The Diplomat magazine.



In its preamble, the deal included a mention of human rights, a strong ambition mechanism, collective emissions reduction actions in 2018, followed by regular mechanism to ensure that the Internally Determined National Contributions (INDCs) each nation submitted prior to COP21 are scaled up over time. It also established that support for capacity building in developing countries --- crucial for much of Asia --- would launch in 2016, and enshrined transparency, a key demand of many developing countries.



The past few years has seen the environment emerge as a serious issue across the Asian region. In China, it is air pollution that is forcing the government to take action, while in the Philippines, devastating typhoons and floods really made it clear what the highly vulnerable archipelago nation would have to deal with if climate change continued unabated. Moreover, for most Asian countries, cutting emissions sounded like a sure-fire way to slash future growth potential.



The climate change agreement is not perfect by any means, and one crucial weakness is the fact that emissions from shipping and aviation were not included in the deal. Singapore, which relies on trade for its economy and has one of the continent’s major shipping and aviation ports, was the main roadblock on this, Coco’s report went on. Moreover, there was little mention of land-use emissions, the same year that Indonesia’s unprecedented fires, which emitted massive carbon dioxide. The Paris agreement did not reflect all we asked for, according to Krishneil Narayan, coordinator for the Pacific Islands Climate Action Network. It was meant to be a progressive step in identifying new common grounds to address climate change together collectively through a new, universal agreement. And climatologists themselves are concerned that the agreement does not do enough in the short term.



They fear that, without drastic cuts now, we may emit enough GHG to get to 1.5 degrees in just five years.



In other words, what came out of Paris must now be acted upon, and fast. With nearly every nation on Earth having pledged to gradually reduce emissions of the heat-trapping gases that are warming the planet, much of the burden for maintaining the momentum shifts v]back to the counties to figure out, and carry out the concrete steps needed to deliver on their vows.



The mechanism and operation of the agreement now fall to the United Nations, which must figure out how to dispense funds from the Green Climate Fund (GCF) and develop a fair system for carbon accounting. But emissions reductions actions are the responsibility of the nearly 200 member-states, meaning the ultimate success of the Paris agreement depends on Asia, responsible for the biggest proportion of global emissions.



Another crucial factor will be the robustness o the climate change finance mechanism, to be funded primarily by developed countries, and if technology transfer allows for the rapid expansion of clean energy. This was the center point of French President Francois Hollande’s post-agreement speech, that the $100 billion figure for the GCF was a floor in the final agreement, the date of the fund’s inception was pushed back by five years to 2025.



“Developed countries have obtained another five years to deliver what they agreed to do,” said. Meena Raman, legal advisor at the Third World Network. “It is regrettable that this has happened as it delays action in developing countries which are in need.”



Now, the hard part begins. If this is truly Asia’s century, then Asia has the opportunity to make it a green one!



***



Quote of the Day: “Today, we celebrate. Tomorrow, we have to act!” – Miguel Arias Canete, the European Union’s energy commissioner and top climate negotiator.