http://www.sfgate.com/world/article/Syria-air-strikes-kill-22-mostly-children-10415830.php
130
13
Syria air strikes kill 22, mostly children, outside school

BEIRUT — Air strikes in Syria killed up to 22 people, mostly children, on Wednesday when warplanes struck a residential area housing a school complex in the northern rebel-held province of Idlib, activists and rescue workers said.

A team of first responders, the Syrian Civil Defense in Idlib, said 22 people were killed and at least 50 wounded in the raids on the village of Hass. Most of those killed were children, the group said in a posting on its Facebook page.

Another activist group, Britain’s Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, gave the same death toll and said 14 children and a woman were among those killed.





















Photo: OMAR HAJ KADOUR, AFP/Getty Images Image 1 of / 6 Caption Close Image 1 of 6 Civil defense volunteers search for victims amid the rubble of destroyed buildings following air strikes in Idlib province. Civil defense volunteers search for victims amid the rubble of destroyed buildings following air strikes in Idlib province. Photo: OMAR HAJ KADOUR, AFP/Getty Images Image 2 of 6 This frame grab from video provided by Muaz al-Shami, Syrian Revolution Network, an opposition activist media organization, that is consistent with independent AP reporting, shows a child on a hospital bed, with a bandage around his head after airstrikes killed over 20 people, in the northern rebel-held village of Hass, Syria, Wednesday, Oct 26, 2016. A team of first responders, the Syrian Civil Defense in Idlib, said at least 50 were wounded in the raids that used parachute mines, targeting the residential area and schools in the village of Hass. Most of those killed were children, the group said on its Facebook page. (Muaz al-Shami, Syrian Revolution Network, via AP) less This frame grab from video provided by Muaz al-Shami, Syrian Revolution Network, an opposition activist media organization, that is consistent with independent AP reporting, shows a child on a hospital bed, ... more Photo: Associated Press Image 3 of 6 BAGHDAD, IRAQ - JULY 23: U.S. Defense Secretary Ash Carter rides on a Chinook helicopter July 23, 2015 in Baghdad, Iraq. Carter is on a week long tour of the Middle East focused on reassuring allies about Iran and assessing progress in the coalition air campaign against the Islamic State in Syria and Iraq. (Photo by Carolyn Kaster-Pool/Getty Images) less BAGHDAD, IRAQ - JULY 23: U.S. Defense Secretary Ash Carter rides on a Chinook helicopter July 23, 2015 in Baghdad, Iraq. Carter is on a week long tour of the Middle East focused on reassuring allies about Iran ... more Photo: Pool, Getty Images Image 4 of 6 In this photo provided by the Syrian Civil Defense group known as the White Helmets, Syrian Civil Defense workers search through the rubble after airstrikes in the village of Hass in the Idlib province, Syria, Wednesday, Oct. 26, 2016. Syrian activists say that airstrikes outside a school in the northern, rebel-held province of Idlib have killed 17 people, mostly children. The Idlib News network says the airstrikes hit as the children gathered outside a school complex in the village of Hass. (Syrian Civil Defense White Helmets via AP) less In this photo provided by the Syrian Civil Defense group known as the White Helmets, Syrian Civil Defense workers search through the rubble after airstrikes in the village of Hass in the Idlib province, Syria, ... more Photo: Uncredited, AP Image 5 of 6 In this photo provided by the Syrian Civil Defense group known as the White Helmets, Syrian Civil Defense workers search through the rubble after airstrikes in the village of Hass in the Idlib province, Syria, Wednesday, Oct. 26, 2016. Syrian activists say that airstrikes outside a school in the northern, rebel-held province of Idlib have killed more than a dozen people, mostly children. The Idlib News network says the airstrikes hit as the children gathered outside a school complex in the village of Hass. (Syrian Civil Defense White Helmets via AP) less In this photo provided by the Syrian Civil Defense group known as the White Helmets, Syrian Civil Defense workers search through the rubble after airstrikes in the village of Hass in the Idlib province, Syria, ... more Photo: Uncredited, AP Image 6 of 6 In this photo provided by the Syrian Civil Defense group known as the White Helmets, Syrian Civil Defense workers run through the damaged buildings after airstrikes in the village of Hass in the Idlib province, Syria, Wednesday, Oct. 26, 2016. Syrian activists say that airstrikes outside a school in the northern, rebel-held province of Idlib have killed more than a dozen people, mostly children. The Idlib News network says the airstrikes hit as the children gathered outside a school complex in the village of Hass. (Syrian Civil Defense White Helmets via AP) less In this photo provided by the Syrian Civil Defense group known as the White Helmets, Syrian Civil Defense workers run through the damaged buildings after airstrikes in the village of Hass in the Idlib province, ... more Photo: Uncredited, AP Syria air strikes kill 22, mostly children, outside school 1 / 6 Back to Gallery

The activist-operated Idlib News network, which gave a lower toll of 17 people killed, said the strikes hit as the children were gathered outside the school complex. It said the death toll could rise as some of the wounded were reported to be in critical condition, the network added.

Idlib is the main Syrian opposition stronghold, though radical groups also have a large presence there. It has regularly been hit by Syrian and Russian warplanes as well as the U.S.-led coalition targeting Islamic State militants.

Footage posted by activists online shows a huge plume of smoke rising from the area of the strikes and rescuers rushing casualties away along a dusty road lined with destroyed buildings.

A woman’s body is seen being carried on a stretcher while other bodies, covered in cloth and one with only a hat, lie under shrubs and other casualties are ferried away in pick-up trucks.

An activist at the scene, Muaz al-Shami, said as many as 10 air strikes were believed to have hit the residential area.

Earlier in the day, the northern Aleppo province saw a new escalation as a helicopter believed to belong to Syrian government forces dropped barrel bombs in a deadly attack on Turkey-backed opposition forces in the border area, Turkish officials said.

A statement attributed to the field commander of Syria’s pro-government troops said any Turkish advances in northern Syria under the pretext of fighting Islamic State militants would be dealt with “forcefully and appropriately.”

The barrel bombing was said to have occurred in the village of Tal Madiq, in a part of northern Aleppo where rival groups have been operating, mostly to rout Islamic State militants.

If confirmed, it would be the first attack by Syrian government forces on the Turkish-backed fighters. Turkey’s state-run news agency didn’t say when the attack occurred and said at least two Syrian opposition fighters were killed and five others wounded.

Syria’s military threatened last week to shoot down any Turkish warplane that enters Syrian air space, after Turkish jets raided villages in northern Syria in an offensive against Kurdish fighters.