http://classic.iol.co.za/news/crime-courts/cape-lecturers-students-have-secret-campus-1.2079320
130
13
INDEPENDENT MEDIA The damaged entrance and campus control room at CPUT's Bellville Campus.

Cape Town - Students and lecturers desperate to complete the academic year are setting up secret meetings at off-campus locations, including coffee shops, in a bid to complete the curriculum.

Universities are also using online platforms to ensure tuition continues and that students can submit assignments.

Ongoing protests, which have escalated into violence, have affected lectures at all four major tertiary institutions, raising concerns universities might not be able to complete the year.

Cape Peninsula University of Technology spokeswoman Lauren Kansley said some departments had already started moving off campus and the university was aware of instances where lecturers and students were meeting in coffee shops.

Some CPUT students had formed study groups and were meeting at libraries and private homes to complete assignments and study.

On Wednesday afternoon the university announced it had confirmed the availability of the Wingfield Military Base as “an option for off-site assessments as we head towards examinations”.

It said a number of contingency plans were being implemented.

“These include moving work to off-site venues and scheduling a meeting in the near future with the Joint Union Task Team and the newly elected SRC.”

The university said the police had committed to a 24-hour presence and a police liaison had been appointed to each campus.

Stellenbosch University spokesman Martin Viljoen said the university remained committed to ensuring that students could complete the academic year and be safe doing so.

On Wednesday, the university announced security had been beefed up after petrol bombs were found hidden on the Stellenbosch campus.

Viljoen said lectures were scheduled to conclude on October 21 and exams to start on October 25.

“Arrangements have been made for staff to electronically record lectures that have been postponed and to make it available for students on the university’s web-based learning platform, SUNLEARN.

“Security arrangements for writing tests and the upcoming exams include security staff present at academic buildings where tests are being written, with access only given to students indicated on the class lists.”

On Wednesday, UCT announced the suspension of classes at the institution had been extended to Friday.

UCT spokeswoman Patricia Lucas said a special meeting of the university’s senate had been held on Tuesday “to discuss the way forward for the 2016 teaching and learning programme”.

“The meeting provided an opportunity to think and speak through different versions to successfully complete the year. These ideas will be shared as soon as possible with stakeholders and with students in particular.”

In an announcement to the campus community later in the day, the university said: “Engagements with multiple stakeholders are continuing and the ongoing planning in order to find ways to conclude the academic year successfully is far advanced.”

Last month, UCT vice-chancellor Dr Max Price warned that if the shutdown continued for longer than three weeks, there could be serious consequences.

University of the Western Cape spokesman Luthando Tyhalibongo said the university had implemented “blended learning methods” and online platforms were being used to assist students with the submission of assignments, online tests and lectures.

ilse.fredericks@inl.co.za

Cape Argus

IOL News on Facebook

IOL on Twitter

Get our free IOL newsletters - subscribe here...