http://www.iol.co.za/sundayindependent/lets-not-go-to-abattoir-like-sheep-2010631
201
20
I once had a conversation with a young Zimbabwean student activist, Chiratidzo Nyamutsika, about the atrophied state of liberation movements on the African continent.

I asked him a question that I had always sought an answer to: How did Zimbabwe, a country once regarded as the breadbasket of Africa and a reference point of post-independence progress with a rigorous education system, find itself in such a perilous state?

The usual rhetoric would have us believe Zimbabwe’s problems began when sanctions were imposed on the country following the violent land redistribution programme of the early 2000s.

But a deeper study into the descent of Zimbabwe into chaos reveals that as far back as the dawn of its independence, there had been red-flags signalling the danger that was to come. As early as 1983, just three years into the country’s independence, Zimbabwe was plunged into an abyss from which it has never recovered.

The Gukurahundi massacres, ordered by Robert Mugabe’s government, not only devastated the Matabeleland population of Zimbabwe, but was a signal of the decay beneath the revolutionary rhetoric.. This decay would fester like a sore and almost two decades later, explode.

In Chiratidzo’s view, Zimbabwe got to where it is because even as there were signs the country was beginning its descent, a majority of Zimbabwean people genuinely believed the Zanu-PF government would self-correct.

They believed a movement that liberated them from colonial oppression would fashion a higher civilisation for them. And even as violence and intimidation started being used to whip them into submission, many still held hope the Zanu-PF they so deeply loved and were sentimental about would cleanse itself of the rot.

Over the past few months, I have found myself going back to this conversation.

Its relevance to the South African situation is deepened with each passing day.

Just like with Zimbabwe, in South Africa we have a situation where despite the red-flags signalling danger, a majority of people continue to believe in the ANC.

Members and supporters of the ANC hold a core belief that the organisation is going to self-correct and return to its former glory.

This belief is so strong that nothing - not even the ANC president’s failure to uphold and protect the Constitution as required by his oath of office - can shake it.

There is a fraction of the South African populace that believes the problems of the ANC are new problems that started with the leadership of President Jacob Zuma.

These are the people who are convinced that if president Zuma is removed as the head of state and president of the governing party, the organisation will be cleansed and the country will be rehabilitated.

It is my considered opinion such people either suffer from the rawness of decency or they do not grasp the magnitude of the problem facing South Africa.

Since the dawn of democracy, South Africa has found itself plagued by systemic problems arising from our colonial and apartheid past.

These problems are not unique to our country, but are a feature of all post-colonial societies that must grapple with the construction of a new society.

But not all problems facing post-apartheid South Africa arise from the constructs of our oppressive past. There are problems that have been born out of the leadership (or lack thereof) of the ANC. One of the most fundamental of these problems is the organisation’s incapacity and lack of political will to progressively transform the economy of our country.

The inability of the ANC to discipline capital has resulted in the deepening of structural inequalities that should and can be alleviated legislatively.

The ANC has consistently failed to address the land question - undoubtedly the most fundamental of our struggles. A week ago, the Deputy Minister of the Department of Rural Development and Land Reform and the KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Agriculture and Rural Development stood proudly before television cameras, commending themselves on a job “well done” for settling a two decade long land claim of the Verulam Mission with a little over R5 million..

This money, to be divided among over 50 families totalling more than 200 individuals (each family is to receive R110 000), is seen by the leadership of the governing party as the height of revolution.

This has been a constant feature of the land redistribution and restitution programme that has seen black people be encouraged to settle for peanuts at best, or be given land without being assisted adequately.

But the ANC’s problems don’t end at lack of political will to change South Africa. We have seen in the ANC the advent of a dictatorship of the mediocre. You only have to listen to debates of our National Assembly to understand just how dismal the organisation’s supposed crème de la crème is.

Thus, it came as no surprise to me that the Constitutional Court found the ANC dominated National Assembly to have been actively engaged in the process of spitting on the constitution.

The state of the country’s municipalities is another indicator of just how deep the rot in the ANC is. Very few ANC-governed municipalities are without scandals arising from maladministration, misappropriation of state funds and pure corruption.

Recently, while going through the Kabuso report, a damning forensic report on the state of the Makana Municipality in the Eastern Cape Province, I could not help but realise that many such reports have been produced in many parts of the country. They are a norm.

And so, as deeply embedded and widespread as the rot is, why would any of us believe that the ANC can self-correct?

There is no indication the organisation has any intention, let alone the desire, to cleanse itself of the decay that characterises it. In fact, the opposite is true.

A country begins its descent when it has a leadership that has no vision and no political will to implement policies that can reconstruct a broken society.

When government officials can commit acts of corruption and maladministration with complete impunity and a head of state can disregard a Constitution that he more than anyone else is supposed to protect, it is clear that a country no longer has a leadership.

This is how countries collapse. Zimbabwe was not always in the sad state that it is in. There was a time when Zimbabwe was a beacon of hope for the rest of the African continent. But signs of atrophy began to show - first slowly and then rapidly. The people of Zimbabwe hoped and prayed their government would self-correct and return to its liberation struggle glory.

It was only when their government began to treat them exactly like the colonisers had that they realised what South Africans are yet to: that reactionary governments don’t self-correct, they become worse with time.

May our sentimental attachment to the ANC not make us sheep which walk blissfully to the abattoir.

Wa Azania is author of Memoirs of a Born Free: Reflections on the Rainbow Nation

The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media.

Sunday Independent

IOL News on Facebook

IOL on Twitter