http://www.thedailystar.net/world/committed-genocide-us-1130731
203
20
The US says the Islamic State group has committed genocide against Yazidis, Christians and Shia Muslims.

US Secretary of State John Kerry said IS was "genocidal by self-proclamation, by ideology and by actions".

He did not say whether his declaration would lead to a change of US policy in the Middle East.

But he did call for an independent international investigation and criminal charges for those thought to be responsible for the atrocities.

"Naming these crimes is important," Kerry said, "but what is essential is to stop them."

Kerry also said IS was responsible for crimes against humanity and ethnic cleansing in areas it controls in Syria and Iraq.

He said his conclusions had been based on a wealth of evidence provided by the US state department, intelligence teams and other sources.

Tens of thousands of Yazidis became stranded on an exposed mountain, and Kerry said "without our intervention, it is clear those people would have been slaughtered".

He also highlighted the killings of Christians in northern Iraq and Libya, and of Shia Turkmen in Iraq.

"The fact is that Daesh [IS] kills Christians because they are Christians, Yazidis because they are Yazidis, Shia because they are Shia," he said, using an Arabic acronym for the group.

"This is the message it conveys to children under its control. Its entire world view is based on eliminating those who do not subscribe to its perverse ideology."

Mr Kerry admitted that a lack of access to IS areas meant the US did not have a "complete picture" of the atrocities that had been carried out, and said he was "neither judge, nor prosecutor, nor jury".

But he said he hoped its victims would take comfort in the fact that "the United States recognises and confirms the despicable nature of the crimes committed against them".

It is only the second time the US administration has declared a genocide during a conflict. The previous time was in 2004 when then-Secretary of State Colin Powell used it to describe the killings in Darfur.

Such a declaration is a powerful signal, says the BBC's diplomatic correspondent Jonathan Marcus, and Mr Kerry may hope that it bolsters the fight against the IS and possibly opens the way to action at the UN Security Council.

But in every other sense its practical impact will be limited, our correspondent adds, as the US and its allies are already engaged in a war against IS and the struggle is likely to continue for months and probably years yet.

Kerry had been given a congressional deadline of 17 March to announce whether IS's actions in areas under its control constituted genocide.

Earlier this week, the US House of Representatives voted 393-0 to designate the crimes as genocide.

Some critics have accused the Obama administration of not speaking out forcefully enough about the treatment of minority groups by IS.