http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3538087/Brothers-Brussels-attacks-weapons-masterminds-Paris-massacre-claims-ISIS-man-arrested-Spain-supplying-guns-Charlie-Hebdo-accomplice.html
202
20
It comes as a man was arrested in Spain today for links to Charlie Hebdo

The suicide bombers who hit Brussels last month - Khalid and Ibrahim El Bakraoui - were also key players in the November Paris attacks, ISIS has claimed.

The latest edition of the group's English-language propaganda magazine Dabiq states the two personally obtained the weapons and explosives for the attacks.

It comes as a man was today arrested in the Costa del Sol, Spain suspected of providing terrorist Amedy Coulibaly - infamous for his role in the Charlie Hebdo shootings - with weapons.

Ibrahim (right) and Khalid El Bakraoui (left) organised weapons for the Paris and Brussels attacks, ISIS claims

Ibrahim El Bakraoui, along with another jihadi, detonated one of the bombs at Brussels airport, killing and injuring dozens

The two bombs which exploded in the airport terminal came just days after a member of the group's ISIS cell was arrested in the Belgium capital

A security guard helps a woman injured in the blast at the Belgian metro following the airport bombing

The jihadist group's magazine said of Khalid El Bakraoui: 'All preparations for the raids in Paris and Brussels started with him and his older brother Ibrahim.

'These two brothers gathered the weapons and the explosives.'

If the group's claim is proven, it would mean the brothers played a more prominent role in the Paris attacks than previously thought.

The magazine also says Najim Laachraoui, who blew himself up with Ibrahim El Bakraoui in Brussels' Zaventem airport, had prepared the explosives for the attacks in Brussels and Paris.

Khalid El Bakraoui detonated his explosive suicide vest on a crowded metro train in the attacks which killed a total of 32 people in the Belgian capital.

ISIS gunmen and bombers killed 130 people in Paris on November 13 in attacks on bars and restaurants, a concert hall and the national stadium.

The latest edition of ISIS's magazine also paid tribute to Mohamed Belkaid, an Algerian who was shot dead in a police raid in Brussels during which other suspects escaped six days before the attacks on the city.

Dabiq said that although Belkaid could have escaped, 'he decided to make this his final stand and to ensure his brothers a safe exit'.

Pictured is the cover of the latest edition of ISIS's English-language propaganda magazine Dabiq

Meanwhile, officers have swooped on an address in Rincon de la Victoria, half an hour’s drive east of Malaga, to detain a man named locally as Antoine Denive.

Frenchman Denive, 27, is understood to have been held on a European arrest warrant.

Coulibaly, who had sworn allegiance to ISIS, killed four people in a Parisian kosher grocery store in January 2015 after shooting dead a policewoman the day before.

He said in a video published after his death he had coordinated his attacks with Cherif and Said Kouachi, the brothers who stormed the offices of satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo in the French capital on January 7 last year, killing 11 and injuring another 12.

All three men died within minutes of each other in separate shootouts with the police at the supermarket and a printworks east of Paris on January 9 2015.

Spanish police are said to have seized fake documents used by the suspect in their raid as well as a valid European passport belonging to another person.

A source at the Audiencia Nacional in Madrid confirmed Denive had already appeared before a judge at the court in a behind-closed doors hearing - and agreed to be extradited.

The source said: 'He appeared after being detained on foot of a European Arrest Warrant for arms trafficking and membership of a criminal organisation. He agreed to be extradited.

'Judge Eloy Velasco remanded him in jail pending his extradition.'

Spain’s National Police, in a tweet confirming the arrest, said: 'Detained in Rincon de la Victoria in Malaga province, an arms trafficker. He supplied the material with which the Paris attacks were carried out.'

The country’s Interior Ministry also confirmed the arrest in a statement in which they described it as a joint operation between Spanish and French police.

It said: 'Yesterday the officers arrested in Rincon de la Victoria Antoine Denive, a French arms trafficker, and searched his home in this town in the province of Malaga.

A man was today arrested in Spain for allegedly selling weapons to Amedy Coulibaly (pictured) who coordinated attacks on Paris in January with the attacks on Charlie Hebdo magazine

Brothers Cherif (left) and Said Kouachi (right) were responsible for the massacre at the satirical magazine's offices in January last year

Here they are pictured opening fire on police during a tense shootout in the streets of Paris

'The 27-year-old, born in Sainte Catherine in the Pas de Calais area, was the object of a European Arrest Warrant issued by the French authorities.

'He has been identified as the head of an arms trafficking network which supplied the French terrorist Amedy Coulibaly, author of the Paris attacks of January 8 and 9, 2015, with weapons.'

The statement said an investigation in France had established Denive fled to Malaga weeks after the attacks and continued his criminal activities using fake documentation.

It added: 'It has also been determined that the detainee’s activities were related to individuals of Serbian origin, who could have facilitated the weapons and ammunition.

'Different fake documents used by the arrested man, together with a European passport belonging to another person, were seized during the raid, as well as computer equipment which is being analysed.