http://www.radio.cz/en/section/news/lower-house-of-parliament-approved-new-law-in-gaming
202
20
News Lower house of Parliament approved new law in gaming

13-04-2016 12:57 | Ruth Fraňková

The lower house of Parliament has approved proposed new legislation on gaming and lotteries. The law should come into force next year. Among other things, the new legislation allows foreign online betting companies onto the Czech market and allows illegal betting web pages to be blocked. As of 2017, gambling will also be subject to two tax rates, 35 percent applying on gaming machines and 23 percent on the other types of gambling. The new legislation also only permits venues to have 15 gaming machines or more, which could lead to the closure of some 80 percent of the country’s gaming bars. Currently, there are currently 4,900 gaming bars in the Czech Republic and only about 800 of them meet that requirement.

For the daily news summary, available after 8pm CET, click here.

Czech football trainer keeps with squad for upcoming Norway match 02-11-2016 12:33 | Chris Johnstone In football, Czech manager Karel Jarolím has named no new players for the key upcoming world cup qualifying group game against Norway. The game will be played at Prague’s Eden stadium on November 11. Jarolím should be able to call on Tomáš Kalas and Daniel Pudil since they are fit again. The Czechs need a win to get their qualification campaign back on track with only two points so far from three matches after draws with Northern Ireland and Azerbaijan and defat against Germany.

Arca Capital files state aid complaint with European Commission 02-11-2016 12:33 | Chris Johnstone The company Arca Capital Bohemia has filed a complaint with the European Commission against alleged Polish state subsidies of hard coal mines. Arca says the state subsidies amount to around 27 billion crowns (around 1.0 billion euros) and it argues that such help has contributed to the woes of Czech hard coal mining company OKD. Without such aid, OKD, would have been able to export coal across the border to Polish customers. Arca was a minority shareholder in now bankrupt OKD. Management have been tasked to draw up a restructuring plan for the Czech mining company.

Six companies express interest in Czech nuclear expansion 02-11-2016 12:32 | Chris Johnstone The Czech government appointee tasked with fulfilling its nuclear action plan, Ján Štuller, has said six companies and partnerships have expressed interest in building new reactors in the country. The companies are Russia’s Rusatom Overseas; Westinghouse; France’s EDF; the joint venture of Areva and Mitsubishi ATMEA; Korea Hydro and Nuclear Power, and China General Nuclear Power Corporation. The end of October was the deadline for companies to submit technical details of the reactor they could offer. The Czech government wants to build a new reactor at Dukovany, one at Temelín, and possibly a follow-up one at each site.

Supreme state attorney again “most influential Czech woman” 02-11-2016 09:42 | Ian Willoughby Supreme state attorney Lenka Bradáčová has been named the most influential woman in the Czech Republic for the fourth year running by Forbes magazine. The magazine’s editor said she merited top spot in the survey thanks to the courage and energy with which she tackles major cases involving business, politics and sometimes billions of crowns. Second on the list was the county’s European commissioner, Věra Jourová of ANO, followed by the financial director of PPF, Kateřina Jirásková.

Minister backs far-reaching proposals to boost birth rate 02-11-2016 09:36 | Ian Willoughby The minister of labour and social affairs, Michaela Marksová, is preparing far-reaching changes in family policy in a bid to boost fertility rates in the Czech Republic, Mladá Fronta Dnes reported on Wednesday. Her proposals include free kindergartens, higher one-off maternity benefits and children’s allowance and encouraging father’s to take paternity leave. Minister Marksová’s plans have the support of her Social Democrat party leader, Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. However, coalition partners the Christian Democrats want the project to be halted and the issues considered at government level. ANO chief Andrej Babiš said he had not yet seen the proposals. The likely cost has not been outlined, Mladá Fronta said.

Zaorálek calls for meeting on Dalai Lama policy 01-11-2016 20:52 updated | Ian Willoughby The Czech minister of foreign affairs, Lubomír Zaorálek, wants the government to discuss on Wednesday an agreement he says the cabinet made in 2014 not to meet officially with the Dalai Lama. The arts minister, Daniel Herman, recently received the Tibetan spiritual leader in Prague, sparking a row between the two ministers. Referring to that meeting, Mr. Zaorálek said on Tuesday that people would also be annoyed if somebody had met the Sudeten German leader Konrad Henlein while there was a legitimate Czechoslovak government in the interwar period. He later apologised for the Henlein reference.

Fresh record budget surplus set in October 01-11-2016 14:26 | Ian Willoughby The state budget surplus reached a new record of CZK 98.3 billion at the end of October, up from CZK 82.3 billion at the end of September. The result was the best for the tenth month of the year since the foundation of the Czech Republic in 1993. Officials attribute the development to improved tax collection. While a deficit of CZK 70 billion was planned for the whole of 2016, the minister of finance, Andrej Babiš, said the budget would actually show a surplus for the entire year.

Book written in Terezín by Holocaust victim set for Prague presentation 01-11-2016 14:09 | Ian Willoughby A book written in Terezín concentration camp by Otto Weiss, who later died at Auschwitz, is being presented at Prague’s Maisel Synagogue on Tuesday evening. Copies of the book entitled I viděl Bůh, že je to špatné (Even God saw it was bad) will be signed by the author’s painter daughter Helga Hošková-Weissová, who illustrated it in Terezín at the age of 13. Mrs. Hošková-Weissová, now aged 86, is herself the author of Helga's Diary: A Young Girl's Account of Life in a Concentration Camp.

Ex-ministers accuse Zeman of violating constitution over China declaration 01-11-2016 13:52 | Ian Willoughby Former ministers Michael Kocáb and Jan Kalvoda have led a call on Czech deputies and senators to examine whether President Miloš Zeman has committed gross violation of the constitution. The demand comes after Mr. Zeman, the prime minister and the chairmen of both houses of Parliament issued a declaration assuring China of continued positive relations between the two states. Mr. Kocáb and Mr. Kalvoda, who are part of a group called Kroměříž Challenge, said Mr. Zeman had not been empowered to make such a statement and that doing so contravened the principle of separation of powers. The declaration to Beijing followed a meeting between a government minister and the Dalai Lama that went against official Czech policy.

Trial of rip-off taxi drivers begins in Prague 01-11-2016 13:23 | Ian Willoughby The trial of six taxi drivers accused of ripping off passengers has begun in Prague. They could face up to eight years in prison for fraud after being caught levying up to CZK 200 a kilometre when the maximum amount permitted is CZK 28. One of the drivers admitted overcharging customers but told the judges on Tuesday that in most cases they had been aware of the price before he took them to their destinations. A former official from Prague’s taxis authority is also standing trial in the case.