http://armenpress.am/eng/news/843120/
203
20
YEREVAN, APRIL 11, ARMENPRESS. Many international organizations engaged in protecting human rights must support the Armenian side, as the Armenian side struggles not only for itself. “Armenpress” reports head of “Against the Violation of Law” Larisa Alaverdyan” NGO Larisa Alaverdyan told about this during an event at the American University of Armenia dedicated to the 24th anniversary of Maragha massacres committed by Azerbaijan.

“As we witnessed, 24 years later, during the unprecedented escalation of military operations of April 2-5, 2016, a similar crime was committed by the Azerbaijani soldiers in the village of Talish, in the same Martakert region of Nagorno Karabakh Republic. Three members of elderly family were brutally executed in their own house and their ears were cut. 60 families living in New Maragha were forced to be evacuated for the second time because of the recent military operations in Nagorno-Karabakh”, said Larisa Alaverdyan.

Ms. Alaverdyan stated that although the high-level international bodies were aware of the possible massacre in Maragha, they did not stop Azerbaijan. And the lack of the further punishment and accusation resulted in continuation of the Azerbaijan's inhuman and brutal policy. “After Sumgait Pogrom, Azerbaijanis were waiting for the reaction by the international community. But when they saw no serious accusation they continued very well planned massacres in Baku and Maragha”, said Alavaerdyan.

Larisa Alaverdyan also noted that starting from 2003, when IlhamAliev became the president of Azerbaijan we started to deal with a new society. A society where armenophobia and brutality towards Armenians became popular phenomena.

In the end, answering the questions of the students Ms. Alaverdyan mentioned that “the principle of territorial integrity is political principle, but the right of self-determination is universal right with no limit of time”. She also brought an example of the fight for independence of the US from the UK and Africa’s decolonization by raising a rhetorical question “was the US violating the territorial integrity of the UK when it was fighting for its independence? Of course, no…” The Maragha massacre never reached the world’s headlines, although the estimates of the actual number of people murdered ranged from 50 to 100. The village of Maraga was located in the Martakert region of NagornoKarabakh Republic, just across the border from the Azerbaijani town of Terter (oil-rich Mir-Bashir region) and was one of the region’s largest villages. The mass murder of Karabakh civilians in the village was committed by Azerbaijani troops who had captured the village on April 10, 1992, in the course of the Nagorno-Karabakh War. The villagers, including women, children and elderly, were killed indiscriminately, and their houses were pillaged and burned. The village was destroyed and was subsequently occupied by the Azerbaijani forces.