http://www.thisisoxfordshire.co.uk/news/14374688.7PM_UPDATE__Manhunt_launched___explosives_being_sought_by_bomb_squads_after_blasts_kill_34_in_Brussels_and_injure_200/
202
20
A TERROR suspect is believed to be on the run after the Brussels bombings, which left 34 people dead and almost 200 injured.

Belgian police issued an image of the man, one of three seen pushing luggage trolleys through Zaventem airport moments before two bombs exploded.

A third bomb was deactivated at the airport hours after the attack, which terrorist group the so-called Islamic State (IS) has claimed responsibility for.

Raids across Belgium have since uncovered an explosive device containing nails, an IS flag and chemical products.

In a statement following the image's publication, Belgian police appealed for information about the man, who is wearing a hat and a light-coloured jacket.

It said: "Police are looking to identify this man. He is suspected of having committed the attack at Zaventem on Tuesday March 22.

"If you recognise this individual or have information regarding this attack please call 0800 30 300."

Prosecutor Frederic Van Leeuw said two suicide bombers died in the attack on the main airport in Brussels and a third was being "actively" sought.

He added: "Various departments and experts are currently in various crime scenes. This will take place for many hours to come.

"Several explosions have been heard. They are due to bomb squad activity upon the discovery that the suspects might have left explosives behind. And this could continue."

The airport attack was followed by a bomb blast on a Metro train in the city centre as terrorists inflicted a new outrage on a European capital.

The coordinated bomb attacks left a major city in lockdown once again less than five months after Paris was hit by a wave of deadly strikes.

The atrocities on Tuesday, condemned as "blind, violent and cowardly" by Belgian Prime Minister Charles Michel, came after the arrest last week of terror mastermind Salah Abdeslam, who plotted November's massacre in the French capital.

It has led to security being stepped up at major transport hubs across the continent, with British police forces boosting numbers at "key locations" including ports, airports and the rail network.

French Prime Minister Manuel Valls said: "We are at war. In Europe we have been subjected to acts of war for several months."

Catherine Bearder, the Oxford-based MEP for the South East of England, was caught up in the chaos in Brussels today.

She reportedly donated blood and told ITV news that the attacks were "just awful".

Mrs Bearder also posted a statement on Facebook that read: "Thank you for all the messages of concern. My team and I are safe but feeling shaken after the horrific events in Brussels this morning.

"My heart goes out to all the victims of these cowardly attacks and their loved ones, as well as all those who rushed to help them.

"In these difficult times, the UK must stand in solidarity with Belgium and offer any assistance we can."

Please call Red Cross on 105 to donate blood if you can on way back from work. Type O- and A- needed #Brussels https://t.co/EHTYbdyFmP — Catherine Bearder (@catherinemep) March 22, 2016

As the city went into lockdown:

Local media reported that 20 people were killed following the blast at Maelbeek metro station, while 14 died in a suicide attack at the airport.

The number of people injured in both attacks was believed to be 198.

Two Kalashnikov rifles and an unexploded bomb belt were found at the airport after the attacks.

Searches were carried out of a residence believed to be linked to three suspects

Downing Street said one British national is known to have been injured.

The UK police presence is being reinforced at ports, airports, underground stations and international railway stations as a precaution.

After an emergency meeting of COBRA, UK Prime Minister David Cameron, MP for Witney, wrote on Twitter: "I have just spoken to the Belgian PM and offered our sympathies and condolences. We must stand with Belgium at this very difficult time.

"We are increasing police presence at ports, airports, Tube stations and international railway stations.

"The terrorists behind today’s atrocities attack our way of life and they attack us because of who we are. We will never let them win."

The first news of the attack came when the airport was rocked by a double blast with reports of up to 10 dead and many more injured.

Jef Versele, 40, from Ghent, Belgium, was at the airport when he heard the two explosions.

"I was on my way to check in and two bombs went off - two explosions," he said.

"I didn't see anything. Everything was coming down. Glassware. It was chaos it was unbelievable. It was the worst thing."

He added: "People were running away, there were lots of people on the ground. A lot of people are injured."

Mr Versele was two or three storeys above the source of the explosion but he said many people around him were hurt.

"The bomb was coming from downstairs. It was going up through the roof. It was big.

"About 15 windows were just blown out from the entrance hall", he added.

The explosion was close to the American Airlines desk.

Images on social media showed shattered windows and smoke rising from the airport building. People could be seen fleeing in terror in video footage shot from an airport car park.

Footage from inside the building showed a scene of devastation with ceiling tiles strewn across the floor and suitcases abandoned.

Passengers were led onto the tarmac and travellers were urged to stay away from the airport.

Sky News Middle East correspondent Alex Rossi, who was at the airport en route for Tel Aviv, told the channel people were "dazed and shocked".

Mr Rossi, who had checked his luggage through the main baggage area and was at a departure gate, said he thought he was "fairly close" to the explosions but he could not be sure.

He told Sky News as he was being ushered out of the airport along with other passengers: "We felt the walls of the building rock. Dust came down from the ceiling."

Brussels Airport, which handles serving 23.5 million passengers per year, told users on Twitter: "There have been 2 explosions at the airport. Building is being evacuated. Don't come to the airport area.

"Don't come to the airport - airport is being evacuated. Avoid the airport area. Flights have been cancelled.

"All airport operations have been suspended until further notice. Follow the information on our website.

"Passengers that are still located in other areas in the airport are asked to remain calm and wait for further information."

Foreign secretary Philip Hammond, speaking in Downing Street, said: "It's an ongoing incident. We are in contact with the Belgian authorities and we will give them every assistance we can."

Lib Dem MEP Catherine Bearder was at the European Union Parliament building at the time of the attacks.

She said: "My team and I are safe but feeling shaken after the horrific events in Brussels this morning.

"My heart goes out to all the victims of these cowardly attacks and their loved ones, as well as all those who rushed to help them.

"In these difficult times, the UK must stand in solidarity with Belgium and offer any assistance we can."

Fellow South East MEP Anneliese Dodds tweeted that she was safe following the attacks.

Thanks so much for kind messages. I'm fine as are my staff. Just awful, awful news. — Anneliese Dodds MEP (@AnnelieseDodds) March 22, 2016

Witney Conservative Liam Walker tweeted that terrorism would never win.

Tragic news from #Brussels Thoughts are with all involved. Times like this our countries grow stronger together - terrorism will never win. — Liam Walker (@_Liam_Walker_) March 22, 2016

Security has been increased at London Gatwick following the explosions in Brussels, an airport spokesman said today.

EU staff are being told to stay at home.

Kristalina Georgieva, the European Commissioner for Budget and Human Resources, tweeted: "Following situation in Brussels. EU institutions working together to ensure security of staff & premises. Please stay home or inside buildings."

Belgian broadcaster RTBF quoted a public prosecutor saying the airport explosion was a suicide attack.

The country's prime minister Charles Michel tweeted: "For the moment, we are asking people to stay where they are."

British officials in Brussels are being advised by the Foreign Office to avoid crowded places and the public transport network.