http://www.islamicinvitationturkey.com/2016/04/13/zaria-massacre-nigerian-armywahabism-cancer-to-the-nation/
202
20
100 days after, the Zaria pogrom is still remembered daily. It is precisely that it cannot be washed-out, history has written it. Since the pre-planned attacked (under the pretext of ‘blockade of road) by the Nigerian government

through its army on the members of Islamic Movement in Nigeria led by Sheikh Ibraheem Zakzaky which he is still incommunicado, till date, he was not given his provisional constitutional rights, which this is shown how anarchical the government it is. His rights to movement, association have been trampled on.

Its amaze that the Nigerian army that has to be secular as the state claims democracy system of government carrying-out 48 hours operation on its citizens killing thousand unarmed civilians without the president of the nation-state caution, bring the culprits to book and commiserate with the family members of the martyrs and declared national mourning, instead, he went to alleged the members of the IMN with running a ‘State within a State’. His allegation also proved the premeditated attacked. The 70 plus old man is confused and knuckle-headed and don’t have the knowledge of political administration.

It’s cleared that in democracy system of government, the Nigerian army in a converged operation are under the command of the Police when it comes to civilian’s affairs, but in Nigeria, its vice versa. The democracy is in written but not into practice. Rather, the Nigerian army to do their duties preventing the sovereignty from invasion in various territories, but they made themselves busy in killing their citizens, and continue plotting against them. This is shame to the military and the government entirely!

Some of the proved that linked the Nigerian army and the Wahabism, it is that of meeting with the so-called Wahabi ‘clerics’. The Nigerian army and the Wahabism have the same thoughts of attacking and killing does they think they are against them. Why the government through it is army using religion to plots against IMN? Are they not fed up with the blood they shed in December, last year? What is the connection of Nigerian army and Wahabism? Why the link now? This proved that; it is a contract from world funders of terrorism; Saudi-America-Israel (S.A.I) in a mission to wipe-out Islamic Movement in Nigeria, this is because of the ideology of IMN which stand firmly with justice and oppressed people, and against injustice, corruption and oppressors. The double party (Nigerian army and Wahabism) their aimed is to kill who they think is against them and thinking that the best option to bring the end of dichotomy is by killings. Zaria massacre is a crime against humanity, the Nigerian army murdered innocent civilians in a cold blood. It is of important the Nigerian army and Wahabism to know that; whoever killed a person innocently, in the hereafter he will come before almighty Allah in his hands with blood of the person he shed.

It is obvious that; the Wahabism ideology is a cancer to the nation-state. The nation-state give it is citizens a guarantee to the freedom of religion, conscience, speech and life, but the Wahabism ideology said; whoever is not a Wahabist he is a ‘infidel’ and he has to be killed. It is paramount important to the non-Muslim to understand that; this ideology of Wahabism is far-away from the teaching of our beloved prophet. We do not know were they emulating it. Our beloved prophet thought us how to live in an every sort of human life in a peaceful manner.

If the tyrants are learning from the human history, they will not use killing, murdering, detention and massacre as a tool to eliminate and ideology. There is an archaeological saying that says; “a past is a clue to the present.” This is to say; the main essence in learning history is to curve away the short comings of the past and avoid it in the presents. The history of Adolf Hitler that killed million of Jews does not eliminate the Jews in the world. The history of Karbala that led the massacre of the holy prophet successor and his companions does not bring the call of Imam Husain to an end. Rather boost the call world wide.

For your information; the truth of the matter, Islamic Movement can’t be wipe-out, Zaria pogrom can’t be washed away. Your devilish thinking and action cannot be succeed, the truth always prevail. The leader of Islamic Movement said in one of his speech; “The truth cannot be suppressed with the barrel of gun.” All these inhumane action from the Nigerian army and Wahabism ideology shows how cancer they are in the nation state.

Source: www.islamicmovement.org