https://www.naij.com/798491-like-biafra-shiites-dont-believe-united-nigeria-dss.html
203
20
– DSS official says that Shiites sect is proving such a divisive force in Kaduna because of the funding from other countries

– The lawyer reveals that there is nothing police could do to check their excesses other than interfacing with them to achieve peace

One of the officials of the Department of State Service (DSS) has revealed why the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN), also known as the Shi’ia sect, is so powerful.

Mohammed Usman, who is in charge of Sabon-Gari, Zaria, has stated that Shiites receive huge funding from countries such as Iraq and Iran.

According to him IMN like Biafra don’t believe in the sovereignty of Nigeria.

READ ALSO: Anger trails secret mass burial of 347 Shiites members



“They have their flags. IMN is a state within a state. They have strong affiliation with Iraq and Iran due to the fact that these countries have a large population of Shiite members. They have five different flags which symbolises some beliefs within the movement,” he said.

“I am aware of complaints of residents of Sabon-Gari about them. When people come to complain to me about them, I persuade them to bear the situation because when the IMN officials are invited for a chat, they don’t come.”

In the same vein Keneth Dika, a lawyer and deputy superintendent of police, advised the authorities to “control the sect’s external funds, which come from Iran, Iraq and Lebanon.”

He said: “Like the Boko Haram, if you trace the history of the Shiite, you will find that they have become difficult.

“The police is aware of the activities of the group over the years, including complaints by residents of Sabon-Gari, Zaria. But there was nothing we could could do to check their excesses other than interfacing with them to achieve peace.”

Dika condemned the organisation for constantly denying to honour police summons and resisting arrest.

“The usual altercations between the Shiite and police are about non-recognition of police as a constituted authority, dishonouring police invitations for whatever reason whenever invited, and resisting arrest whenever any of them is reported to have committed an offence.”

READ ALSO: 347 Shiites killed by army buried in secret – Kaduna govt



“We are yet to ascertain the number of deaths, some members of the MNI said their relations were killed, but the police is yet to conclude investigations.

“When it is an allegation of murder, investigations does not close until after seven years. On December 13, 2015, a total of 270 suspects were handed to the police by the military, but the suspects were charged to a magistrate court and later remanded in prison custody in Kaduna.”

Balarabe Lawal, Kaduna state government secretary, stated at the public hearing of the judicial commission of inquiry into the Zaria massacre that the 347 civilians were deposited into secret mass graves.

On its own part, Amnesty International called for an immediate investigation into the slaughter and secret burial of Shiites member.