http://aljazeerah.info/News/2016/March/21%20n/Syrian%20Holocaust%20Continues,%20Hundreds%20of%20Civilians%20Massacred,%20Including%2055%20by%20Russian%20Air%20Strikes%20on%20Raqqa,%20March%2021,%202016.htm
203
20
Editorial Note: The following news reports are summaries from original sources. They may also include corrections of Arabic names and political terminology. Comments are in parentheses. Share this article with your facebook friends Syrian Holocaust Continues: Hundreds of Civilians Massacred, Including 55 by Russian Air Strikes on Raqqa March 21, 2016 Syrian holocaust: Russian air strikes on Al-Raqqa, 2015 Syrian holocaust, children killed and injured by Russian air strikes, file, 2015 55 civilian Syrian citizens killed in massacres carried out by Russian warplanes in Al-Raqqah within 24 hours March 20, 2016 http://www.syriahr.com/en/ The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights make sure that the are Russian warplanes are the ones which committed two massacres to civilians during the past hours in the city of Al-Raqqah, killing 55 people including 13 children and 12 citizen women. One of the women is a pregnant and she was killed with her unborn child, yesterday’s massacre killed 16 civilians including 8 children and five citizen women when the Russian warplanes intensively raided the areas of al-Sur, the silo, al-MoJamma’ Square near al-Thakneh neighborhood and other areas in the city of Al-Raqqah city. In the second massacre 39 civilians were killed, including five children and seven citizen women and one of the women was also pregnant and she was killed with her unborn child too when the Russian warplanes carried out more than 10 airstrikes targeting different areas in the city of Al-Raqqah. Moreover, 5 members of the Islamic police in the “Islamic state” organization were killed in the bombing today, it is worth mentioning that the death toll is expected to rise because there are some people in critical situation. http://www.syriahr.com/en/?p=45251 Russian target Tadmur city and advances for IS in Aleppo March 20, 2016 Homs province: Russian warplanes went in dozens of airstrikes on Tadmur city which is taken over by IS. Clashes taking place between IS and regime forces around al-Qaritin amid advances for IS in the area. Aleppo province: IS took control on Kafar Saghir near the industrial city after violent clashes against regime forces, the clashes continue around the town in an attempt by the regime to advance, bombardment continue on Shekh Maqsoud neighborhood, leading to injuries. 135 , including 32 civilians, were killed in 7 days of military operations in the truce areas March 5, 2016 Comments Off on 135 , including 32 civilians, were killed in 7 days of military operations in the truce areas 1,017 Views The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights was able to document the death of 135 people during the first five days of the ceasefire in Syria, in the places which is considered as truce areas, since the 27th of February 2016 and until the 5th of March 2016, and among the total human losses are 45 fighters from the rebel and Islamic factions as well as 32 civilian citizens, including 7 children under the age of 18, and 5 women over the age of 18, and 25 from the regime forces and the forces of NDF, and 27 YPG fighters, Nusra and other Islamic factions. Bombardment kills and wounds 13 civilians in Shekh Maqsoud neighborhood March 20, 2016 Aleppo province: 4 civilians were killed while no less than 9 were wounded by bombardment by Jabhat al-Nusra and Islamic battalions on Shekh Maqsoud neighborhood during the past 24 hours. Clashes continue between IS and regime forces in the northern countryside of Aleppo amid advances for IS in the village of Kafar Saghir. About 10000 civilian Syrians, including more than 3500 child and citizen women killed in the raids by warplanes of both Syrian regime and Russia March 20, 2016 The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights documented 50460 raids at least, carried out by Bashar al-Assad’s regime warplanes and helicopter in 16 months from the 20th November 2014 until the dawn of the 20th March 2016, the barrel bombs and raids targeted hundreds of farms, communities, towns, villages and cities in Syria, in most of the Syrian provinces. *** Coalition Strikes Target ISIL in Syria, Iraq US Department of Defense, SOUTHWEST ASIA, March 21, 2016 — U.S. and coalition military forces have continued to attack Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant in Syria and Iraq, Combined Joint Task Force Operation Inherent Resolve officials reported today. Officials reported details of the latest strikes, noting that assessments of results are based on initial reports. Strikes in Syria Attack aircraft conducted four strikes in Syria: -- Near Ayn Isa, a strike destroyed an ISIL mortar position. -- Near Kobani, a strike destroyed an ISIL excavator. -- Near Manbij, a strike struck an ISIL tactical unit and destroyed an ISIL heavy machine gun position and an ISIL fighting position. -- Near Mara, a strike destroyed an ISIL fighting position. Strikes in Iraq Fighter and remotely piloted aircraft conducted seven strikes in Iraq, coordinated with and in support of Iraq’s government: -- Near Hit, a strike produced inconclusive results. -- Near Kisik, a strike suppressed an ISIL tactical unit. -- Near Mosul, three strikes struck an ISIL headquarters and destroyed an ISIL mortar position and two ISIL fighting positions. -- Near Ramadi, a strike struck a large ISIL tactical unit and destroyed two ISIL fighting positions. -- Near Sinjar, a strike destroyed three ISIL supply caches. http://www.defense.gov/News-Article-View/Article/698631/coalition-strikes-target-isil-terrorists-in-syria-iraq Strikes Hit ISIL in Iraq US Department of Defense, SOUTHWEST ASIA, March 20, 2016 — U.S. and coalition military forces have continued to attack Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant in Iraq, Combined Joint Task Force Operation Inherent Resolve officials reported today. Officials reported details of the latest strikes, noting that assessments of results are based on initial reports. Strikes in Iraq Rocket artillery, attack, fighter and remotely piloted aircraft conducted 16 strikes in Iraq, coordinated with and in support of Iraq’s government: -- Near Al Baghdadi, two strikes destroyed an ISIL vehicle and suppressed two ISIL tactical units. -- Near Habbaniyah, two strikes struck two separate ISIL tactical units, and destroyed two ISIL fighting positions and an ISIL bunker. -- Near Hit, three strikes struck two separate ISIL tactical units and destroyed four ISIL tactical vehicles, an ISIL car bomb, two ISIL rocket rails and an ISIL vehicle. -- Near Kisik, three strikes struck an ISIL tactical unit and destroyed an ISIL fighting position, an ISIL supply cache, and three ISIL rocket rails and suppressed an ISIL sniper position. -- Near Mosul, four strikes struck two separate ISIL tactical units and an ISIL headquarters and destroyed two ISIL assembly areas and suppressed an ISIL mortar position. -- Near Qayyarah, a strike destroyed two ISIL supply caches and an ISIL headquarters. -- Near Sinjar, a strike destroyed an ISIL supply cache and suppressed an ISIL rocket position. http://www.defense.gov/News-Article-View/Article/698399/strikes-hit-isil-in-iraq Military Strikes Continue Against ISIL in Syria, Iraq US Department of Defense, SOUTHWEST ASIA, March 19, 2016 — U.S. and coalition military forces have continued to attack Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant in Syria and Iraq, Combined Joint Task Force Operation Inherent Resolve officials reported today. Officials reported details of the latest strikes, noting that assessments of results are based on initial reports. Strikes in Syria Fighter aircraft conducted one strike in Syria: -- Near Ayn Isa, a strike destroyed an ISIL rocket position and an ISIL mortar position. Strikes in Iraq Rocket artillery, ground attack, bomber and fighter aircraft conducted 25 strikes in Iraq, coordinated with and in support of Iraq’s government: -- Near Al Baghdadi, four strikes struck two ISIL bed-down locations and two ISIL staging areas. -- Near Al Huwayja, a strike destroyed an ISIL anti-air artillery piece. -- Near Fallujah, two strikes struck two separate ISIL tactical units. -- Near Hit, seven strikes struck an ISIL training camp, two ISIL car bomb factories, an ISIL bomb factory, two ISIL tactical units, destroyed an ISIL tunnel, an ISIL vehicle, an ISIL supply cache, and an ISIL car bomb. -- Near Kisik, two strikes struck an ISIL tactical unit and destroyed an ISIL bunker and two ISIL assembly areas. -- Near Mosul, six strikes struck two separate ISIL tactical units and destroyed an ISIL assembly area, an ISIL supply cache, and three ISIL vehicles, and damaged an ISIL-used bridge section and suppressed an ISIL fighting position. -- Near Qayyarah, a strike destroyed an ISIL mortar position and an ISIL vehicle. -- Near Sinjar, two strikes struck an ISIL tactical unit and destroyed an ISIL vehicle and suppressed an ISIL fighting position. http://www.defense.gov/News-Article-View/Article/698331/military-strikes-continue-against-isil-in-syria-iraq Counter-ISIL Fight Enters Second Phase to Dismantle Terrorist Group WASHINGTON, March 18, 2016 — As U.S-led coalition forces enter the second phase in Iraq and Syria to degrade and ultimately defeat the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, a spokesman for U.S. Central Command today discussed operations to dismantle the group. In a teleconference with Pentagon reporters, Air Force Col. Patrick Ryder gave an overview of this year’s three operational approaches: coalition-enabled pressure on ISIL to isolate Raqqah, Syria; isolating and eventually seizing Mosul, Iraq; and stabilizing Iraq’s Anbar province. ISIL’s ‘Last Route’ In Syria, the Manbij pocket near the Mara line comprises complex terrain and large numbers of mixed groups of people to whom the territory is important, Ryder said, but he added that the area is the final route available to ISIL. “[That] is ISIL’s last route to move people, money and supplies into Syria and Iraq, and the territory continues to go back and forth,” Ryder said. “This will be one of the most difficult fights going forward,” he said. Farther east, the Syrian Democratic Forces’ forward line of troops continues to move closer and apply pressure on ISIL fighters who hold Raqqah, Ryder said. The SDF also has made “fairly good progress” in northeastern Syria to liberate ISIL-held territory near Shaddadi, he said. ISIL Movement Narrows “Operations are working to isolate Raqqah from Mosul and deny ISIL freedom of movement between the two important cities,” Ryder said. In the Hit and Hadithah corridor, Iraqi security forces are working with local tribes to clear the Euphrates River Valley and hold liberated territory, which will help to set conditions to stabilize the province in the future, he added. Particularly encouraging is the progress Iraqi security forces have made, Ryder said, noting that they are becoming better at holding terrain they’ve taken back from ISIL, “even against an occasional complex ISIL attack.” (Follow Terri Moon Cronk on Twitter: @MoonCronkDoD) http://www.defense.gov/News-Article-View/Article/698258/counter-isil-fight-enters-second-phase-to-dismantle-terrorist-group *** Share this article with your facebook friends



Fair Use Notice This site contains copyrighted material the use of which has not always been specifically authorized by the copyright owner. We are making such material available in our efforts to advance understanding of environmental, political, human rights, economic, democracy, scientific, and social justice issues, etc. We believe this constitutes a 'fair use' of any such copyrighted material as provided for in section 107 of the US Copyright Law. In accordance with Title 17 U.S.C. Section 107, the material on this site is distributed without profit to those who have expressed a prior interest in receiving the included information for research and educational purposes. For more information go to: http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/17/107.shtml. If you wish to use copyrighted material from this site for purposes of your own that go beyond 'fair use', you must obtain permission from the copyright owner.



