http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3831545/What-Australians-Samsung-Note7-manufacturer-warns-owners-turn-amid-explosion-concerns.html
130
13
Samsung Note 7 phones have been overheating and catching fire, forcing the technology giant to recall and replace the faulty products.

However since the recall some of the replacement handsets have also been catching alight, due to faulty batteries in the phones.

This week manufacturers in the U.S. suspended production over the serious safety concerns - however customers the world over have now been left in the lurch.

For Samsung customers in Australia, the company are offering either a replacement phone for faulty products, or a full refund.

Scroll down for video

Samsung Galaxy Note7 phones have been recalled after they were overheating

The telecommunications company was replacing the phones however some of those were also faulty

Consumers have to request a substitute phone, and are then contacted by the original place of purchase, such as mobile phone providers like Telstra, Vodafone, Optus and Virgin Mobile.

These providers will then coordinate the collection or delivery of their new device.

Samsung has urged customers waiting for a replacement to 'back up their data, complete a factory reset to delete personal data and power down their device.'

On Monday after revelations that replacement phones were also faulty, retailers in Australia 'have paused the supply of replacement Galaxy Note7 smartphones'.

'Samsung Electronics Australia is aware of a number of incidents involving replacement Galaxy Note7 smartphones,' they said in a statement on Monday.

'Samsung is conducting a thorough investigation into this matter.

'We continue to move quickly to investigate the reported cases to determine the cause and will provide an update as soon as possible.

'Samsung Electronics Australia would like to reassure our customers that we take this matter very seriously.

Australian customers are eligible for refunds if they have faulty handsets

WHY WERE THE BATTERIES EXPLODING? Lithium batteries are use in a range of consumer electronic devices, favored by manufacturers because they are lightweight and pack much more energy into a small space than other power cells. But storing so much energy in a tiny space, with combustible components separated by ultra-thin walls, makes them susceptible to overheating if exposed to high temperatures, damage or flaws in manufacturing. If the separators fail, a chemical reaction can quickly escalate out of control. Koh Dong-jin, Samsung's mobile president told reporters in Seoul: 'The flaw in the manufacturing process resulted in the negative electrodes and the positive electrodes coming together.' It is unclear how Samsung failed to discover the battery problem before launching the Note 7.

'We apologise for any inconvenience and appreciate their patience as we work diligently through this process,' the statement ended.

Samsung is also offering a refund to unhappy consumers who were sold a faulty phone in Australia.

In late September U.S. regulators ordered a recall of the original Note7 after the devices demonstrated an unwelcome tendency to catch fire.

Now, following reports that the company's replacement versions have also overheated or caught fire , Samsung says it is 'temporarily adjusting ' Note 7 production to 'ensure quality and safety matters.'

But it neither confirmed nor denied a previous report by South Korea's Yonhap news agency that it has suspended production of the phones.

Carpet in an area of the plane was where the device was dropped was burned by the overheating device, but it was the only damage to the aircraft, authorities said.

Samsung said it's investigating the recent fires and working together with the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission.

The four major U.S. mobile carriers, meanwhile, have all suspended trade-ins for the replacement phones; so have major retailers such as Best Buy.

Instead, these companies are offering to swap Note 7s out for any other smartphone of the customer's choice.

Consumers in the U.S. with faulty Note7's have the option of swapping it for an older Samsung phone, exchanging it for a phone made by someone else or waiting it out.