https://www.naij.com/769329-christian-elders-come-hard-buhari-read-said.html
202
20
– Christian elders condemn Nigeria’s inclusion in coalition against terrorism

– They claim the president wants to spread Islamism

– The group condemn El-Rufia’s religious bill

The Nigerian Christian Elders Forum has condemned the inclusion of Nigeria in the coalition against terrorism led by Saudi Arabia which was announced by President Muhammadu Buhari.

According to Premium Times, Solomon Asemota who is the chairman of the group said on Friday, March 18 that Nigeria’s membership in the coalition was a disregard for the views of non-Muslims who voted the president to power.

The group: “Including Nigeria in the Saudi Arabia Military coalition of Muslims/Arab nations would appear that the foreign policy thrust of the current administration is to make Nigeria a satellite state of Saudi Arabia.”

READ ALSO: Photos: Buhari hosts international Islamic conference

“Any nation in which Islamists believe that they are sufficiently strong to exercise influence rarely experiences peace.

“Mr. President should kindly remember that over 50 per cent non-Muslims of Nigeria did not vote for the nation to become Sharia compliant,”

The group claimed the inclusion of Nigeria in the Organisation of Islamic Conference in 1975, as well as the recent inclusion in the coalition was an attempt by Muslim leaders to dominate the country, with the teachings of Islam.

“While Islam is a religion; Islamism, otherwise called political Islam, is a set of ideologies that hold that Islam is not a religion, but a political system meant to dominate the environment in which it is practiced.”

The group further noted that some policies adopted by Buhari were given Nigerians concern.

“N900 billion was released as bailout to states without appropriation. International commitments are being made without resource to the National Assembly,” it pointed out.

READ ALSO: Anti-Terror Coalition: Christian Elders Caution Buhari

“Attempt to fund deficit in the 2016 budget through issuance of Sukkuk loan which is a Sharia compliant loan”.

The group also condemned the controversial religious bill proposed by Governor Nasiru El-Rufai of Kaduna. It also said Fulani herdsmen were allowed to weild terror without check.

“We wish to express tremendous shock at the proposed Kaduna state bill. The proposed bill contravenes section 38 (1) of the 1999 constitution,”

“According to media reports over 300 Nigerians were allegedly massacred by the Fulani Herdsmen. Till today, there has been no prosecution of any of them.”