http://www.presstv.com/Detail/2016/10/09/488316/Yemen-Saudi-Arabia-airstrike-Sanaa-Houthis-US-Saudi-aggression
202
20
Saudi Arabia’s recent airstrike on a funeral in the Yemeni capital Sana’a amounts to "collective punishment" and "massacre" of civilians, says an analyst.

"I am sure the overwhelming majority of them (the victims) had nothing to do with this conflict, they had nothing to do with the war," Naseer al-Omari told Press TV.

"But in the Saudi mindset, if you deal with the Houthis … then you are automatically a criminal. This is the medieval mindset that we have warned the world about for years."

The analyst also stated that the regime in Riyadh thinks "killing hundreds who happen to be in the vicinity" of a specified target "is justified."

"This is the Wahhabi value system. This is the royal family’s value system," the commentator said.

At least 140 people were killed in when Saudi warplanes hit the funeral in Sana'a on Saturday.

The funeral was for the father of Jalal al-Roweishan, the interior minister in the Yemeni government.

Elsewhere in his remarks, Omari said Washington had to urge the Saudis to stop the war on Yemen.

"And I hope that they (the Americans) will move after they have seen that this royal family has no respect for human life. It does not fight on principle, it does not fight for legitimate political or military reasons. It fights to take revenge, it fights to punish its own foes and enemies."

The commentator further noted that the United States supported Saudi Arabia for political reasons and it saw the Saudi royal family as a “useful foreign policy tool.” However, Omari said, this tool had “backfired.”

Yemen has seen almost daily attacks by Saudi warplanes since late March 2015, with internal sources putting the death toll from the bloody aggression at about 10,000. The offensive was launched to undermine Yemen's Houthi Ansarullah movement and restore power to Abd Rabbuh Mansur Hadi, a staunch ally of Riyadh who was Yemen's president but resigned and fled the capital.

Houthis took state matters in their own hands after the resignation and escape of Hadi, which threw Yemen into a state of uncertainty and threatened a total security breakdown in the country, where an al-Qaeda affiliate is present.