https://polishforums.com/life/poland-safe-country-people-color-39627/3/
202
20
I have friends in France, Scottland, Ireland, England, Russia, Spain, Germany & Austria & every single one of them said that Poland is very racist and they dont think i should go there

I'm of color and I've been to every single one of those places and I live in England currently. In France a random stranger across a street gave me the finger while throwing a racial slur towards me, I've been called racist things countless times in both Scotland/England while I've been assaulted in St. Petersburg.. Possible because I was colored. Austria is just like Northern Europe and the people are reserved and might harbor hate against you depending on what kind of colored person you are. The Spanish can be very racist if you're black as black people flood into the country from north Africa and they certainly don't like that in Spain.I've recently been to Poland and the the major cities were probably some of the least racist places in Europe. Warsaw was filled with Asian tourists and many different people and most of all it resembled Manhattan alot. So It's pretty safe to go there and I'm sure you won't run into any racism, in fact you'll probably run into less racism than in the U.S if any at all. The rural areas in Poland were less friendly but that's common for every hillbilly town in the world no matter where you are. As somebody else said, All the people you know in Western Europe who said Poland is racist are hypocrites. Western European nations are FAR more racist than Poland and the fact that you're actually thinking about meeting this guy in France is just stupid. There's no reason to cry about going to Poland... It's not Russia you know. It sounds like the people you've gotten advice from have either been Americans who're out of touch with reality or Western Europeans who all hold a grudge against Poland because migrant workers from Poland snatch their jobs from under their noses.I think you should pack you're bags and go to Poland, nothings going to happen and you're probably going to have a great time. Just remember, be polite and don't act like a dumb (american) tourist.