http://www.redstate.com/diary/blbennett/2016/10/09/hillary%E2%80%99s-libyan-rebels-massacred-blacks-e-mails-show-knew/
203
20
Backstory: Hillary Clinton pushes for War in Libya

I call them “Hillary’s rebels” because it’s been amply demonstrated here and here that Hillary Clinton actually took the lead in launching a NATO attack on Libyan dictator Gadhafi—our ally in the War on Terror—in behalf of the rebels who were trying to unseat him. Unfortunately, the rebels were undeniably linked to al-Qa’eda, from multiple reports, such as: John Rosenthal, writing in National Review, who quoted a study by two French think tanks: “The report describes members of the al-Qaeda-affiliated Libyan Islamic Fighting Group as the ‘main pillar of the armed insurrection.’”

Clinton charmed by rebel leader, ignores Pentagon advice

After a 45-minute meeting with Mahmoud Jibril, a rebel leader, Clinton was seized by the conviction that intervention and regime change were the only solution to his claim that Gadhafi would conduct a massacre of civilians, if he wasn’t stopped. But this view was in conflict with data found by the Pentagon—that there was no impending massacre of citizens.

She ignored the advice of the Pentagon, which made extraordinary efforts to avoid the war she seemed intent on starting—including setting up its own negotiations with the Gadhafi government.

On March 17, 2011 the UN Security Council passed Resolution 1973, calling for a no-fly zone over Libya to protect civilians.

The next day, March 18th, “the U.S. military, supported by France and Britain, fired more than 110 Tomahawk missiles” into Libya—a clear violation of the U.N. resolution.

Even after the war started, General Carter Ham, chief of the Africa Corps, negotiated a fair deal for Gadhafi to abdicate. The State Department ordered Ham to stand down, and the war continued, killing thousands.

Libya has been a failed state and a terrorists’ playground ever since.

Libyan rebels target black Libyans for ethnic cleansing

The Levant Report describes how black-skinned Tawerghas, descendants of slaves, were targeted for racial cleansing by the rebels. Black Libyan civilians and sub-Saharan contract workers had been favored by Gadhafi, under his “pro-African Union policies,” so logically had some loyalty to him, in the civil war.

“Black Libyans were commonly branded as ‘foreign mercenaries’ by the rebel opposition for their perceived general loyalty to Gaddafi … and subjected to torture, executions, and their towns ‘liberated’ by ethnic cleansing. The most well-documented example [is] Tawergha, an entire town of 30,000 black and ‘dark-skinned’ Libyans which vanished by August 2011 after its takeover by NATO-backed NTC Misratan brigades.”

The Wall Street Journal, the only stateside outlet to report on Libyan rebels’ war crimes against the Tawerghas, reported that, two years before the civil war broke out on February 17, 2011 “Gadhafi [had] made the impoverished rural community [also called Tawergha] a personal pet project, residents said. He lavished investment and money on the town,” boosting the economy significantly.

During Gadhafi’s siege of Misrata, after the civil war started, he quartered troops in Tawergha, giving rise to rumors that the Tawergha people had personally fought in support of Gadhafi, and some no doubt did. Of course, many others fought in behalf of Gadhafi, as well. But the rebels sought unending revenge against the Tawerghas, vowing to wipe out the entire town of Tawergha.

Warnings of swelling hatred of black Libyans ignored

HumanRightsInvestigations.org chronicled the swelling hatred against the Tawerghas. On July 7, 2011 HRI reported:

“Specific evidence has emerged that there is a strong racist element within the rebel forces, including at command level, and it is the stated intention of these forces to ethnically cleanse areas they capture of their dark-skinned inhabitants.”

On June 21, 2011 The Wall Street Journal reported that:

“Many Misratans are convinced that Tawerghans were responsible for some of the worst atrocities committed during their city’s siege, including allegedly raping women in front of their relatives and helping Gadhafi forces identify and kidnap rebel sympathizers and their families.”

At that time, the rebels had ejected Gadhafi’s forces from Misrata, and were fighting to take the town of Tawergha, about 25 miles from Misrata. It was already clear, from the WSJ report, that ethnic violence was in store for the Tawerghas, after the rebels took the town:

“Before [the rebels took Misrata], nearly four-fifths of residents of Misrata’s Ghoushi neighborhood were Tawergha natives. Now they are gone or in hiding, fearing revenge attacks by Misratans, amid reports of bounties for their capture.”

Some rebel leaders called for “banning Tawergha natives from ever working, living or sending their children to schools in Misrata.”

Others called for more drastic measures:

“Ibrahim al-Halbous, a rebel commander leading the fight near Tawergha, says all remaining residents should leave once his fighters capture the town. ‘They should pack up,’ Mr. Halbous said. ‘Tawergha no longer exists, only Misrata.’”

The road between Misrata and Tawergha bore signs with ominous rebel slogans: like “the brigade for purging slaves, black skin.”

It’s unthinkable that then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton was unaware of this WSJ article.

Hatred of the Tawerghas was fed by the rumor that Gadhafi was using foreign mercenaries to kill protestors. And these “mercenaries” could be recognized by their black skins. The rebels spread this tale widely, to justify the NATO intervention, according to HRI, which reported on widespread killing of blacks:

Evidence of the massacres of black people, which include the lynchings and murder of black soldiers of the Libyan army, guest workers from other African countries and dark-skinned Libyan civilians include a report from the BBC on 25 February which cited a Turkish construction worker as saying:

“We had 70-80 people from Chad working for our company. They were cut dead with pruning shears and axes, attackers saying: ‘You are providing troops for Gaddafi.’ The Sudanese were also massacred. We saw it for ourselves.”

As early as the 27th of February, Nick Meo of The Telegraph reported from Al-Bayda that he had been shown mobile phone footage of a ‘captured mercenary’ (presumably he means black person with a uniform) lynched from a street lamp as well as a ‘black African hanging on a meat hook.’

These war crimes were well known by all parties, charged Human Rights:

From the start of the Libyan rebellion black people in Libya have been attacked and lynched by rebel mobs. This has been known by human rights groups and the United Nations as well as by the intelligence agencies, military forces, media and political leaders in the NATO countries – but they have generally kept a lid on it because it does not suit the narrative.

It does not suit the narrative of an oppressed people standing up against tyranny and for human rights to find rebel lynch mobs targeting black people, lynching them and ethnically cleansing them. Human Rights Investigations has documented that these lynchings even happened at rebel HQ in Benghazi.

The Media and NATO accused of demonizing blacks

HRI also charged the media with helping to spread the mercenary rumor about blacks, with even NATO itself pitching in:

“Where reports of racial atrocities have reached the media, the story has been that the victims are “African mercenaries” despite plenty of evidence to the contrary. Amnesty workers on the ground have reported that the widespread allegations of African mercenaries have little or no basis in fact – but this information has been suppressed and the fears of African mercenaries, extremely useful to the rebel side, have been whipped up by the media and NATO politicians.”

These politicians were named, in another HRI article:

“The myth of black mercenaries was spread by certain political leaders including … British Defence Minister Liam Fox and NATO spokesperson Oana Longescu. According to Amnesty, allegations of ‘African mercenaries’ have led to the lynchings.”

Hillary’s favorite rebel leader OK’d massacre of black town

HRI quotes The Wall Street Journal revelation that the very rebel leader, who back in March had convinced Hillary Clinton to intervene to prevent a civilian massacre, called for the destruction of the town of Tawergha, the only black-majority town on the Libyan coast:

Sam Dagher of The Wall Street Journal reported September 18th that Mahmoud Jibril, the National Transitional Council Prime Minister, rubber-stamped the wiping of the town off the map in a public meeting at the Misrata town hall:

“Regarding Tawergha, my own viewpoint is that nobody has the right to interfere in this matter except the people of Misrata.”

According to HRI, NATO provided air support for the attack on the town, which no longer exists.

“As we reported at the time, the town of Tawergha was taken by the rebels on 13 August in an assault which was closely coordinated with NATO and featured the use of aerial bombing and of heavy weaponry against the town.”

The main town of the Tawergha region, Tawergha itself (aka Tawargha, Tawurgha. Arabic: تاورغاء), was a town of an estimated 31,250 people (United Nations Environment Program, 2005). It has been emptied of its entire population: its people having either been killed or fled, amidst reports the remaining population in the area are being picked off as they try to find water and food….Areas of Misrata occupied by the Tawargha have also been ethnically cleansed, according to The Wall Street Journal.

E-mails released by WikiLeaks prove Clinton knew of executions

WikiLeaks has released an e-mail from March 27, 2011 that clearly showed Sidney Blumenthal and Hillary Clinton discussing the “summary execution” of foreign mercenaries nine days after the U.S. and NATO launched the first Libyan attack:

“Source Comment: Speaking in strict confidence, one rebel commander stated that his troops continue to summarily execute all foreign mercenaries captured in the fighting.”

The term “foreign mercenaries” was understood by all to mean blacks. “Summarily” means “shoot on sight.” Just as soon as they see the person’s black skin.