http://moderntokyotimes.com/?p=5781
202
20
Funeral Massacre in Yemen by Saudi Arabia and Sunni Coalition: France, UK, and US Duplicity

Murad Makhmudov, Noriko Watanabe, and Lee Jay Walker

Modern Tokyo Times

The latest massacre in Yemen by Saudi Arabia and the Sunni Muslim coalition highlights the utter moral bankruptcy of America, France, and the United Kingdom. These leading NATO powers, along with the Sunni Muslim coalition that is butchering in Yemen, show that international law and moral authority have no meaning. Therefore, while Sunni Muslim-dominated nations under the auspices of Saudi Arabia are slaughtering based on the “fear of Shia Islam,” it is equally true that America, France, the United Kingdom, and others, have hands that are dripping in Yemeni blood.

Immediately after the latest airstrike massacre that killed at least 155 people during a funeral event in Sanaa – yes, the Saudi Sunni-led coalition even kills when people are paying respect to a passing soul – the Obama administration tried to dampen its role in events by saying that a “blank check” isn’t guaranteed for Saudi Arabia. These words, and other statements related to Bahrain where Shia Muslims suffer enormous persecution seem empty at best. At worse, they are detractors from reality on the ground and instead it is business like usual.

Ned Price, US National Security Council Spokesperson, said “In light of this and other recent incidents, we have initiated an immediate review of our already significantly reduced support to the Saudi-led coalition and are prepared to adjust our support so as to better align with US principles, values and interests, including achieving an immediate and durable end to Yemen’s tragic conflict.”

CNN says, “Since peace talks in Kuwait failed in August, the coalition has intensified airstrikes, despite vocal criticism from rights groups that the bombardments have been indiscriminate and could constitute war crimes. The attacks have often hit civilian targets with devastating results.”

In reality, the Obama administration – despite espousing a politically correct agenda domestically – abandons all notions of human rights when it comes to foreign policy. Therefore, the words of Obama and Price ring hollow when it comes to the anti-Shia and anti-Christian nation of Saudi Arabia. After all, the Obama administration desires to increase military purchases to Saudi Arabia despite the horrendous human rights record of this nation.

Reuters says, “U.S. arms offers to Saudi Arabia since Obama took office in January 2009 have included everything from small arms and ammunition to tanks, attack helicopters, air-to-ground missiles, missile defense ships, and warships. Washington also provides maintenance and training to Saudi security forces.”

It is high time for America, France, and the United Kingdom – and nations that comprise the Sunni-led coalition under the auspices of Saudi Arabia – to be held accountable. In Yemen, the Sunni-led coalition is killing on a daily basis with civilians paying a heavy price. This reality is based on the anti-Shia geopolitical agenda of Saudi Arabia that is being assisted openly by leading Western democracies.

http://www.cnn.com/2016/10/08/middleeast/yemen-airstrikes/index.html

https://www.yahoo.com/news/obama-administration-arms-sales-offers-saudi-top-115-192037127.html

Modern Tokyo News is part of the Modern Tokyo Times group

DONATIONS to SUPPORT MODERN TOKYO TIMES – please pay PayPal and DONATE to sawakoart@gmail.com

http://moderntokyotimes.com Modern Tokyo Times – International News and Japan News

http://sawandjay.com Modern Tokyo Times – Fashion

https://moderntokyonews.com Modern Tokyo News – Tokyo News and International News

http://global-security-news.com Global Security News – Geopolitics and Terrorism

PLEASE JOIN ON TWITTER

https://twitter.com/MTT_News Modern Tokyo Times

PLEASE JOIN ON FACEBOOK

https://www.facebook.com/moderntokyotimes