http://www.albawaba.com/mena_voices/poll-reveals-israelis-attitudes-ethnic-cleansing-palestinians-815288
203
20
An Israeli mounted policeman stands guard outside Damascus Gate in Jerusalem's Old City on March 9, 2016. (AFP/Ahmad Gharabli)

Follow > Disable alert for Erdogan Disable alert for Michigan Disable alert for Pew Research Center Disable alert for Turkish police Follow >

Ethnic cleansing poll a dangerous sign for Israel The most shocking piece of information to come out of a Pew Research Center survey of Israeli society published Tuesday is that nearly half of Jews in the country say they support the ethnic cleansing of Arabs. Forty-eight percent of Jewish respondents agreed/strongly agreed that “Arabs should be expelled or transferred from Israel.”



Digging deeper into the data, however, that glimpse into the collective political mindset of half of Israel’s Jewish population becomes less and less surprising. Furthermore, the full set of data makes the prospect of Israel voluntarily ending the occupation and becoming a state of all its citizens appear more distant than ever.



The picture of the Jewish Israeli body politic drawn by the Pew survey seems to mirror the state of Israel’s politics, an indication that Israel’s system of government is more akin to a tyranny of the majority than democracy. Source: +972

Young American Muslim protesting Trump racism ejected from rally in Style The U.S. citizen of Pakistani descent was dressed in sunglasses and a long South Asian coat.



An Asian American was escorted from a Donald Trump rally in Warren, Michigan after repeatedly shouting that, “Not all Mexicans are rapists, not all Muslims are terrorists.”



Saqib Javed, a resident of Warren, dressed for Friday’s rally in sunglasses and a long South Asian coat known as a sherwani and interrupted Trump 40 minutes into his speech.



Within moments the 22-year-old was grabbed by security guards and led out in an incident that Javed recorded on his camera. Source: Informed Comment