http://malaya.com.ph/business-news/opinion/delusional
202
20
IS he in denial, on drugs or simply delusional?(My Mac Mini dictionary defines “delusional” thus: characterized by or holding idiosyncratic beliefs or impressions that are contradicted by reality or rational argument, typically as a symptom of mental disorder.)Soon-to-be ex-President Noynoy Aquino says the next president must “fulfill his promises”.Jeeezzz!!! Need one enumerate the promises he failed to keep after he assumed office nearly six years ago? To do so would mean filling up this entire column.But perhaps it would suffice to mention a few:* “Kung walang corrupt, walang mahirap.” Hindi nawala ang mahirap. Bagkus ay dumami pa!* The appointment of inept, incompetent and corrupt cabinet members and other high-ranking officials, several of whom now face all kinds of criminal charges, including plunder.* The promised Freedom of Information bill.***Noynoy also likened the presidency to marriage.What the heck does he know about marriage? He has not been into one.He apparently cannot even forge or maintain a relationship with a member of the opposite sex!As the self-proclaimed “father of the nation”, he has also been an utter failure.Just look at the way he treated and reacted to the massacre of the heroic SAF 44 police commandos in Mamasapano. Was that how a father would behave when his children suffer such a fate? Worse of all is that he was instrumental in sendingthem to that sad fate.And what about the virtual massacre committed by Malaysia through the use of heavy artillery and jet fighters against the men of the late Sultan of Sulu when they crossed over to Sabah? Not a peep from him condemning the brutal Malaysian act.Weren’t those people, as the father of the nation, also his children?And the recent tragic incident in Kidapawan City in North Cotabato where at least three persons died and scores were injured?About 5,000 poor farmers gathered on a highway to protest against the government’s failure to meet their demand to provide them rice to feed their families with no more to eat due to the dry spell brought by El Nino.The police tried to disperse the protesters by firing shots at them. That was most unfortunate, certainly cruel and even murderous.***Noynoy, in another fit of denial and memory lapse, said he will never surrender part of our territory in the West Philippine Sea/South China Sea.He forgets that nearly four years ago, he abandoned Panatag Shoal (Scarborough) by withdrawing unilaterally after a rather lengthy standoff with China.He said he withdrew our ships because of the bad weather but swore he would send them back when the weather improved.Our brave and gallant men in uniform vowed they were ready and willing to make the supreme sacrifice to defend what is ours.But for reasons known only to him, Noynoy never sent back our ships thus surrendering by default to the Chinese Panatag shoal which is within our Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ). The shoal, otherwise known as Bajo de Masinloc, has been for as long as anyone can remember a traditional fishing ground of Filipino fishermen.There are reports that China is preparing to reclaim land in Panatag as she did in a couple of isles and reefs in the Spratlys that are also within our EEZ. What is he doing about it?Too, in one of his earlier State of the Nation addresses, he said something like should any foreign power step on Recto Bank, it would be like stepping on Recto Avenue.Now he has the gall to say: “We shouldn’t cower just because it’s (China) big. It is my obligation to see to it that our territory, that which should be turned over to the next generation, is there and we will have to fight for our rights even if the enemy is powerful.”Brave words, indeed!***In yet another unbelievable denial, a delusional assertion, Noynoy said “we never stole”! Naman!How conveniently he forgets the illegal and unconstitutional Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP) concocted by Budget secretary Florencio Abad and approved by him, part of which was allegedly used to bribe senators to impeach Renato Corona as chief justice!That’s not stealing?!And, is he really not aware of the many COA reports on cases of graft and corruption allegedly committed by officials of his administration, the numerous cases being investigated by the Ombudsman and those being tried by the Sandiganbayan?***Noynoy should realize by now that, notwithstanding his endorsement or maybe because of it, Mar Roxas is still languishing near the bottom of the heap of presidential candidates.The poor showing of Roxas simply reflects what the majority of the Filipino people think about his administration.Roxas, of course, is also not that attractive to the electorate. The image that he projects is that of a weak and indecisive person.***Ms. Grace Poe Llamanzares unabashedly professes that she is running for president because she loves this country. Yet, she refuses to settle once and for all the outstanding question of whether she is a natural-born Filipino as required by theConstitution.Forget about the recent ruling of the Aquino-controlled Supreme Court. The ruling did not settle the question of her citizenship. Instead, it merely posed grave consequences to the political stability of the country – unless the high court rectifies its mischievous and grievous mistake before the May 9 elections.If she really loves this country as she claims, she should accept Bongbong Marcos’ offer to have a DNA test with him – now, not after the elections!Barring that, she should have a DNA test with her adoptive mother, Susan Roces, who is the sister of her alleged natural mother, Rosemarie Sonora.A couple of doctors told me that if the DNA of Susan and Grace match, then the latter would indeed be the natural daughter of Sonora. The identity of her natural father would then no longer even matter. End of story.So, why hasn’t she done it? To save the reputation of Sonora? Is that why Sonora’s daughter, Sheryl, was so much against Llamanzares’ running?Saving Sonora’s reputation is important. But is it worth the price that the entire Filipino nation will be paying for her alleged past indiscretion?***Aside from the hanging question of her natural parentage, there recently emerged a couple of instances that somehow gave an indication of the kind of moral compass that Llamanzares has.The first was when she said that Danding Cojuangco is not to blame for the coconut levy scandal after his party endorsed her candidacy.The second was when she was reported to be open about a possible endorsement by Ms. Gloria Arroyo whom her adoptive mother accused of having cheated her adoptive father, the late Fernando Poe, Jr., not once, but twice during the 2014 elections.Open?! Everybody thought she would have rejected the idea outright!***Personally, I wouldn’t vote for Llamanzares. Why should anyone, for that matter?Her own husband and her children of voting age won’t even be able to vote for her. They are aliens!And people are asking why her son is campaigning for certain candidates. He is not supposed to. He is an alien.***Poor acting foreign secretary Rene Almendras. Barely has he warmed his seat and already he has been confronted with crucial issues concerning our relations with China, Indonesia and Malaysia.The first was when the Chinese rammed two Filipino fishing boats in the vicinity of Panatag Shoal. That was on March 6, the day before he took over the DFA helm.He said later that he was still awaiting the report of the Philippine Coast Guard on the incident before taking any diplomatic action. I suppose that meant another useless note verbale protest against China. That was almost a month ago. I have not come across any news report about such action having been taken.The second incident was the hijacking by Abu Sayyaf of an Indonesian ship carrying coal and abducting ten crew members.The third was the more recent reported kidnapping, again by the Abu Sayyaf, of four Malaysian boat crew members off Sabah. There has been no further news on the incident as of this writing.***Earlier, before Almendras took over, there was a news report that the DFA had ordered the boarding and detention of a vessel named Jin Teng docked in Subic, supposedly owned and operated by North Korea and carrying non-military cargo.The DFA reportedly issued the order soon after the UN Security Council unanimously adopted a resolution imposing further sanctions on North Korea that included seizure by UN members of North Korean ships suspected of carrying items that could further enhance its military capability.The Security Council passed the resolution after North Korea reportedly tested a miniature nuclear device, as well as rockets for delivering such weapons.While it is true that a UN Security Council resolution has a binding effect on all UN members, the assumption is that an executive order by governments is necessary to implement the resolution. US President Barack Hussain Obama, for instance, did just that.Apparently, the DFA action was not cleared with Noynoy. Malacañang sources say he was livid when he learned of it and wanted to know who was responsible for the decision.What was worse for the DFA was days after the Jin Teng was detained, the UN Secretary General said that the ship was not North Korean and had been removed from the list of vessels to be seized. It was reported to be owned and operated by China! It has since been released.I certainly wouldn’t want to be in the shoes of whoever was the DFA officer-in-charge at the time.***The Reminders (for Noynoy) portion of this column will be published next week.***Today is the 343rd day of the ninth year of Jonas Burgos’ disappearance.I dread to think of how many more years it will take before Jonas’ disappearance is finally resolved. It is beginning to look more and more like the next administration will have to be reminded of it too. In the meantime, it would be interesting to know what our Commission on Human Rights and the Department of Justice are doing about it.***From an internet friend:There was a farmer who grew watermelons. He was doing pretty well, but he was disturbed by some local kids who would sneak into his watermelon patch at night and eat his watermelons.After some careful thought, he came up with a clever idea that he thought would scare the kids away for sure. He made up a sign and posted it in the field. The next night, the kids showed up and they saw the sign which read, “Warning! One of the watermelons in this field has been injected with cyanide.”The kids ran off, made up their own sign and posted it next to the farmer’s.When the farmer surveyed the field the next day, he noticed that no watermelons were missing, but the sign next to his read: “Now there are two!”***Email: roacrosshairs@outlook.com