http://www.tngovwatch.org/the-04032016-jihad-watch-daily-digest-pakistan-public-schools-teach-hatred-of-jews-and-christians-passion-for-jihad/
203
20
Pakistan: Public schools teach hatred of Jews and Christians, “passion for Jihad” By Robert Spencer on Apr 02, 2016 05:18 pm No need to be concerned. Only 70% of Pakistani children go to these schools. Meanwhile, our children are learning to be sensitive to “microaggressions” and to eschew unpopular ideas as “hate speech.” “Children in Pakistan are learning disturbing things about other religions in school,” by Nafees Takkar, Christian Science Monitor, March 31, 2016: … In […] Read in browser » Jihad terrorist refused to blow himself up during Paris jihad massacre By Robert Spencer on Apr 02, 2016 04:01 pm Jihadis frequently affirm how much they love death. Boston jihad killer Dzhokhar Tsarnaev wrote: “you are fighting men who look into the barrel of your gun and see heaven.” Austrian Muslim teenage girls who recently traveled to Syria for jihad announced: “Death is our goal.” Boko Haram leader Abubakar Shekau said: “I’m even longing for […] Read in browser » Imam of Kaaba: Quran & Muhammad “against violence and terror. Islam has nothing to do with terrorism or terror acts” By Robert Spencer on Apr 02, 2016 03:02 pm They have to keep telling us, because this is so obviously false, it can only be put across by constant repetition. “We will cast terror into the hearts of those who disbelieve for what they have associated with Allah of which He had not sent down authority. And their refuge will be the Fire, and […] Read in browser » The Islamic State planted thousands of mines in Palmyra By Robert Spencer on Apr 02, 2016 02:34 pm “A signpost on a road through the ruins, now bent at 90 degrees to the ground, tells travelers in the group’s trademark black and white colors to ‘Respect God’. ‘When we show humility, God will deliver us,’ the sign says, above a passage from the Koran which says: ‘God made you victorious at the (battle […] Read in browser » Can There Have Been Two Annunciations? By Ralph Sidway on Apr 02, 2016 01:12 pm The “second annunciation,” to Muhammad, is pivotal in Islam, marking the beginning of his call as prophet. It is also one of the most significant and revealing facts about Islam, one which deserves some exploration. In addition to being Good Friday for Western Christians, last Friday was March 25, the Feast of the Annunciation of […] Read in browser » Islamic State stones two people to death on charges of adultery By Robert Spencer on Apr 02, 2016 11:44 am Stoning adulterers is not “extremist”; it is Islamic law. The caliph Umar, one of Muhammad’s closest companions, even maintained that it was originally in the Qur’an: ‘Umar said, “I am afraid that after a long time has passed, people may say, “We do not find the Verses of the Rajam (stoning to death) in the […] Read in browser » UK: Muslim former mayor resigns from Labour Party over anti-Semitic remarks By Robert Spencer on Apr 02, 2016 11:32 am This is the new Labour Party, the Labour Party of the future. Khadim Hussain resigned, but he is the vanguard. Soon Labour will be hailing Khadim Hussain as a great forerunner. “Former UK Labor mayor forced to resign from party after anti-Semitic row,” Jerusalem Post, April 2, 2016 (thanks to Thomas): Offensive social media posts […] Read in browser » Spanish government introduces anti-jihadism lessons for Muslims in high school, using Qur’an to prevent radicalism By Robert Spencer on Apr 02, 2016 11:18 am “But this noble goal could have the opposite effect to that desired: marking a clear boundary between Spanish Christians and Spanish Muslims, leaving the door wide open to dangerous forms of communitarianism.” Oh, and there’s one other little potential problem as well: the Qur’an contains verses that favor, rather than prevent, “radicalism.” A sampling: 2:191-193: […] Read in browser » Integration is Not the Answer to Muslim Terrorism By Ralph Sidway on Apr 02, 2016 10:49 am “What is often described as ‘radicalization’ is really a choice by ‘integrated’ Muslims to become religious and to act on their beliefs.” “Integration is Not the Answer to Muslim Terrorism”, by Daniel Greenfield, Frontpage Magazine, April 1, 2016: There is a famous photo of Anjem Choudary, the head of multiple banned organizations calling for imposing Sharia […] Read in browser » What We Fear By Michael Devolin on Apr 02, 2016 10:37 am “What we feared has happened.” — Charles Michel, Prime Minister of Belgium I’ve been expecting Islam’s defenders and apologists to accuse Belgium’s Prime Minister Charles Michel of Islamophobia. So far, weeks after the attack, no journalist has dared brand this leader an Islamophobe, even though he has openly admitted to being afraid of and anticipating […] Read in browser »