http://ynaija.com/two-persons-killed-19-missing-fulani-herdsmen-attack-enugu-community/
202
20
Fulani herdsmen have struck again! This time on a Thursday, in Abbi Community in Uzo-Uwani Local Government Area, Enugu State, where two people were killed.

While the Nigerian government is yet to take decisive action on the bloody massacre in Agatu, Benue state, several weeks after it occurred, the pastoral Fulani continues its spate of attacks.

According to Vanguard, about seven houses were burnt down and two siblings killed when over 30 Fulani herdsmen invaded the village from the bush, brutally attacking several individuals before running back into the bush -unharmed.

According to a source who spoke to Vanguard, the herdsmen surprised the villagers.

He stated that: “The most worrisome aspect of the Fulani invasion of the community was that about 19 people are still missing as nobody can give account of them. Those missing were last seen on the fateful day. The community formed search parties in groups, combing bushes within and outside the community for days now, yet no sign of success has been recorded.”

“We have lodged formal complaint at both Adani police station and Police Area Command Nsukka, but no arrests have been made over the matter. The Fulani herdsmen were armed to the teeth with dangerous weapons when they invaded us.”

“Two people killed while 19 missing, several others brutalised with deep machete cuts now lying critical down at different hospitals.”

“The corpses of the deceased Fidelis and Mercy have been deposited at Bishop Sanahan Hospital, Nsukka while the search for the missing 19 people continues.”

Speaking on the development, a senior police officer in the area, who spoke on the condition of anonymity stated that a full scale investigation has been lunched into the sordid affair.

It remains to be seen if any arrest, or prosecution, would be made over the bloody killings -considering that no one has taken the rap for the several violent acts perpetuated by Fulani herdsmen within Nigeria in recent time.

Armed police officials are said to have been drafted to the area to prevent the break down of law and order.

Comments

- Advertisement -

Follow us on Twitter @YNaija