http://www.politico.eu/article/balkans-peace-is-bad-enough-karadzic-mladic-war-crimes-icty-hague-bosnia-croatia-serbia/
203
20
The conviction of the wartime Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadžić on genocide and nine other charges at The Hague was intended to bring victims of a bloody conflict from another century a sense of justice and close a painful chapter of European history by taking another step toward reconciliation.

In the Balkans, at least for now, it accomplished neither.

At Friday’s sermon in Sarajevo’s King Fahd mosque, a day after the verdict, Imam Nezim Halilović Muderris fumed over the 40-year prison sentence handed out to Karadžić by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia for his role in the Srebrenica massacre, the three-year siege of Sarajevo and other atrocities against civilians in the Bosnian war. He told worshipers that Karadžić will be jailed for an hour and 45 minutes for each of the more than 8,000 Muslim men and boys murdered by Bosnian Serb forces who in July 1995 seized Srebrenica, a U.N. protected enclave.

“The court at The Hague is now, for me, the international court of shame,” Muderris said. “Humanity was killed in Srebrenica, not once, but 8,372 times.”

A day earlier, as Judge O-Gon Kwon was reading out the decision in the Karadžić case, Serbian Prime Minister Aleksandar Vučić invoked injustice and war victims, too. He was speaking at a Belgrade memorial for victims of the 1999 NATO bombing campaign against Serbia, then fighting a war in Kosovo, four years after the end of the Bosnian conflict.

“I am warning those who think of using (the) verdict against the former Republika Srpska president to mount a political or any other kind of attack on the Serb Republic (in Bosnia) that in line with the Dayton agreement, Serbia must not, cannot and will not allow it,” Vučić said.

The Dayton peace accord ended the war by sundering Bosnia into a Serb entity on one side and the Bosniak-Croat federation on the other. They cohabit uneasily, and while the three ethnic groups are represented in the joint presidency based in Sarajevo, the Serb and Croat nationalists in power in Belgrade and Zagreb both give blanket support to their ethnic kin in Bosnia.

Four years after Dayton, the NATO campaign pushed the Serbs out of Kosovo, which is struggling to create a sustainable state after unilaterally declaring independence in 2008. To the south, Macedonia has regressed politically toward authoritarianism and continued to spar with Greece, dashing the grander hopes that a 2001 peace deal with its Albanian minority would push this country into the clubs of the West.

Decades since formal hostilities ended in the Balkans, nobody seems to have forgotten what happened, and very few have forgiven. There is hardly any reason to think that war is again inevitable in the Balkans. Peace is bad enough.

Weak state, divided

That’s not The Hague tribunal’s fault. It has done its job, although it was painfully slow in delivering justice. In 23 years of the court’s existence, judges have heard testimonies of 4,650 witnesses, compiled two and a half million pages of transcripts and conducted 10,800 hours of trial proceedings. The tribunal has indicted 161 people on war crimes charges and convicted and sentenced 81, including Karadžić. His military commander Ratko Mladić has been on trial since May 2012 on 11 charges, including two of genocide.

In Bosnia, the tribunal can’t do what many consider necessary to make it one again, at least territorially: Undo the Dayton treaty that drew clear lines between ethnic Serbs on one side and Bosniaks and Croats on the other. Those lines are now effective borders. The Serb entity that Karadžić and Mladić cleansed of non-Serbs is a de facto state of its own with its capital in Banja Luka. In Sarajevo, the border runs almost parallel with the municipal boundaries that Karadžić’s and Mladić’s forces had shelled relentlessly from the surrounding hills during the 44-month siege of the city.

Seen from Sarajevo or many other parts of the so-called Bosniak-Croat Federation, ethnic cleansing has been rewarded with territory for the Bosnian Serbs and political power for Belgrade, which calls the shots in Republika Srpska.

Even as Serbia pursues membership talks with the EU, the government in Belgrade gives no indication of giving up its sway over Bosnia. “Serbia has an obligation to take care also of its people outside the borders of Serbia,” Vučić said after the Karadžić verdict. “We are not endangering anyone, we will not threaten anyone, but we will not let anyone trample on Serbs because they are Serbs.”

Karadžić will do his time, but Vučić and his predecessor Boris Tadić are considered by many in the EU to be forward-looking democrats in Belgrade. The consensus in Brussels is they have sufficiently broken with the country’s nationalistic past to earn closer ties with the EU: They delivered Karadžić and Mladić to The Hague and, more importantly, they have resolved some practical issues with Kosovo, such as trade relations and jointly-managed border posts — although Serbia staunchly opposes any steps that would trap Belgrade into recognizing Kosovo’s statehood.

The Serbian premier dissolved the parliament on March 4 and called early elections for next month in order to push through reforms that will speed up their EU accession talks, so they can catch up with their old rival, Croatia, which joined the bloc in 2013.

While Vučić’s reform efforts appear to be genuine – last summer he even traveled to Srebrenica to attend a memorial service 20 years after the massacre — the nationalists, who consider the EU as big of an enemy of Serbia as NATO, retain a lot of support.

The leader of the right-wing Serbian Democratic Party (DSS) Sanda Rašković-Ivić, sometimes described as Serbia’s Marine Le Pen, has teamed up with the far-right Dveri movement, and according to recent polls is likely to do well in an April 24 election. A Croatia-born and Zagreb-educated psychiatrist, Rašković-Ivić is campaigning on a promise that she will take Serbia off the path to the EU and vows she will never agree to a rapprochement with NATO.

Vojislav Šešelj, Serbia’s veteran ultranationalist who had been indicted for war crimes and crimes against humanity by The Hague tribunal, and has been on trial since 2006, proved on Thursday that he can still rally thousands and led a march down the streets of central Belgrade. He climbed on the podium and said to supporters, some whom were holding pictures of Karadžić and Mladiċ: The choice at the election is clear — it’s either the EU that has some of Serbia’s “traditional enemies” as members or Belgrade’s traditional ally, Russia.

Diagnosed with terminal cancer, Šešelj was provisionally released from The Hague prison in November 2014 on humanitarian grounds and transferred to Serbia. A verdict in his case is scheduled for March 31.

Croat card

Ironically, when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia would like to be more like Serbia. The Croats fought bitterly for their own slice of Bosnia during the 1990s war but had to give up on the idea. At Dayton, Croatia agreed that the Bosnian Croats would go into a federation with the Muslims — with both groups seeing it as a temporary arrangement, at best.

In the 20 years since the arranged marriage was struck, Croat and Bosniak representatives in Sarajevo and Mostar appear to be working behind the scenes on a divorce. The sticking point is Mostar, which has been effectively divided since the war ended. The Croatian currency, kuna, is used on one side and Bosnian marks on the other.

The Bosnian Croats ache for their own autonomous region in Bosnia, and it seems that they may get it with considerable support of Zagreb. The Croatian nationalists of the Croatian Democratic Union (HDZ) are back in power, enforced by the hardline Bosnian Croat ranks. The Croatian member of the joint Bosnia presidency and a HDZ member, Dragan Čoviċ, is pushing hard to dismantle the Croat-Bosniak Federation to form a Serb-like, Croats-only enclave in Bosnia that would be much like the wartime entity known as Herzeg-Bosna.

While most Bosniaks vehemently oppose Croat territorial succession, the leader of the largest Muslim party, the Party of Democratic Action and the Bosniak member of the tripartite presidency, Bakir Izetbegović, appears to be resigned to it. Izetbegoviċ, a son of Bosnia’s wartime President Alija Izetbegović, struck a reconciliatory tone after the Karadžić ruling, saying that the court pronounced the verdict that needs to be respected and not used for incitement by any group or political party.

Like his Croat counterpart, Izetbegović is using his position and influence in the presidency to get the most for his constituency, which is predominantly Muslim, and loyal to the idea of a Bosnian state. That state, however, was hobbled at birth by the war of Yugoslav succession and then the Dayton accord. The arrangement of two entities, not explicitly federal, and three constituent peoples (Bosniaks, Croats, Serbs), that make up Bosnia today unsustainable, according to the International Crisis Group.

“With growing frequency, Bosnians ask the questions that precede the 1992-1995 war: Shall it be one country, two, or even three? If one country shall it have one, two or three constituent entities, and how shall it be governed?” the ICG said in a recent report. With Bosnia and Herzegovina at “breaking point,” a political structure that is not based around ethnicity is needed, the ICG said: a territorially defined federation, responsive to interests of the three communities.

Another EU headache

Any effort of building Bosnia’s political structure from scratch will likely fall on an EU that has in the past year focused on the Balkans for different reasons — first the Greek debt crisis and more recently the migration crisis. The countries of former Yugoslavia, from Slovenia to Macedonia, have scored points in Brussels not only for managing the refugee flow northwards when the borders of Austria and Germany were open, but also for shutting down the migrant corridor that became known as the Balkan route once the countries in the north felt overwhelmed by the new arrivals.

The unravelling of Bosnia would put the EU in an awkward position since its youngest member, Croatia, is actively supporting a breakaway community of its kin in Bosnia. The break-up could also reverberate around the volatile area. From Kosovo to Croatia, the region appears to be a “dangerous mix of criminal networks and ethnic tensions and a weak political environment,” said Judy Dempsey, an analyst with Carnegie Europe.

Kosovo is another source of instability. Some of its mostly Muslim youth has been radicalized by Islamic preachers imported from the Persians Gulf, and dozens have reportedly joined the jihadi stream into Syria. Due to high unemployment, many more others are falling into a criminal network that foreign diplomats, Kosovo opposition figures and Western law enforcement officials say is patronized by some members of the country’s political elite.