http://mobile.wnd.com/2016/03/obama-still-at-war-with-u-s/
203
20
Barack Obama reaffirmed his determination to remain at war with the country he leads until Jan. 20, 2017, by admitting 100,000 predominantly Sunni Muslims from the Middle East whom he calls “refugees.”

“Our openness to refugees fleeing ISIL’s violence; our determination to win the battle against ISIL’s hateful and violent propaganda – a distorted view of Islam that aims to radicalize young Muslims to their cause,” are paramount in the fight, Obama told Americans during his weekly radio address.

While even Secretary of State John Kerry has reluctantly and belatedly acknowledged ISIS is carrying out a genocide against Christians in the region, almost all of the so-called “refugees” flooding the U.S. at the expense of U.S. taxpayers are Sunnis – the majority sect of Islam to which ISIS belongs. Obama’s own FBI director has said there is no way to screen the immigrants to determine who they really are and what threat they might post to the safety and security of the nation and its citizens.

Obama – who has been criticized for waging only a low-level military campaign against the brutal terrorists who behead, torture and crucify civilians in their wake in Iraq and Syria and bomb, shoot and main foreigners in France, Belgium and the U.S. – calls the “refugee” program a “weapon” in the arsenal against ISIS.

“We have to wield another weapon alongside our airstrikes, our military, our counterterrorism work and our diplomacy,” Obama said. “And that’s the power of our example. Our openness to refugees fleeing ISIL’s violence. Our determination to win the battle against ISIL’s hateful and violent propaganda – a distorted view of Islam that aims to radicalize young Muslims to their cause.”

In his brief speech, Obama underscored that the United States has to engage Muslims as partners in the fight against terrorism. He took apparent shots at proposals by Republican presidential candidates. Donald Trump has called for barring Muslims from entering the United States. Sen. Ted Cruz urged pre-emptively expanding police presence to “secure” Muslim neighborhoods, though American Muslim communities have been a source of domestic terrorism.

Obama called American Muslims “our most important partners” in his strategy.

“That’s why we have to reject any attempt to stigmatize Muslim-Americans, and their enormous contributions to our country and our way of life. Such attempts are contrary to our character, to our values, and to our history as a nation built around the idea of religious freedom,” Obama said. “It’s also counterproductive. It plays right into the hands of terrorists who want to turn us against one another; who need a reason to recruit more people to their hateful cause.”

Make sense to you?

Experience more of Joseph Farah’s no-nonsense truth-telling in his books, audio and video products, featured in the WND Superstore

Of course not. It’s such a transparent rationalization for a policy that has already come back to kill Americans in San Bernardino and elsewhere. It’s either utter madness or a deliberate attempt to degrade and destroy, not ISIS, but Obama’s own country.

Nobody seriously believes ISIS is going to be weakened by the U.S. taking in Sunni Muslim “refugees,” at least some of whom will undoubtedly be sympathizers if not trained terrorists who will continue to bring the war home to America.

It’s past time Congress, the press, the Republican Party and every 2016 presidential contender recognize what we are up against – not just a committed and brutal foe who seeks our destruction, but an appeaser in the White House either oblivious to the threat he is increasing or secretly accommodating it.

Far-fetched?

Remember who Obama is. He is a subscriber to the Marxist Cloward-Piven strategy of orchestrated chaos at home. He’s practiced it with his economic policies. He’s practiced it with his health-care policies. Why does anyone not believe he would practice it with national security policies?

He’s doing it in plain sight.

Media wishing to interview Joseph Farah, please contact media@wnd.com.

