http://revolutionradio.org/?p=126233
203
20
Selco

April 1st, 2016

SHTFschool.com

Editor’s Note: One of the most well informed and insightful preparedness resources you can tap to understand what is really necessary in order to survive a worst case scenario such as a total collapse of the system or a civil war-torn region is Selco of SHTF School. During the Balkan war of the 1990’s Selco was trapped and surrounded in a city where he spent One Year In Hell. People fought and died on an hourly basis over food and basic supplies. And when they weren’t fighting with each other, they were fighting those who were sent to ethnically cleanse the population. It was, by all accounts, a complete breakdown of a system and it happened almost overnight. One day people were sitting around in cafes drinking coffees and talking about the seemingly unimportant aspects of daily life… the next day they were being bombed, sniped and executed.

In the following article Selco delves into a topic that many understand may become a reality, but one that is difficult to comprehend for those of us who have lived a life of relative peace.

When your very survival hangs in the balance, killing and death become a regular occurence. From his own experiences, the SHTF School founder shares his views on the matter…

3 Things You Need to Know About Killing

By Selco (SHTFschool.com)

There are few things to understand if you are forced to kill someone or in if someone is trying to kill you.

Most of the people are unaware of them but it is important to understand them.

As I said many times before, most people simply did not face real violence before. I mean killing or fighting for life. That’s good because we live in society where those things are not needed.

On the other side, from the point of survival if you did not went through serious violence before you lack that experience, you do not really know what to expect when SHTF So…

People are easy to kill or people are hard to kill?

Guess what? Both of the statements are actually true. How?

It is simple, first forget about movie scenes where people are flying 10 meters back when you shoot at them with your handgun.

The Rest…HERE

Share on Facebook