http://examinergazette.com/2016/02/28/pope-francis-authorizes-use-of-three-mexican-indigenous.html
202
20
Pope Francis asked Mexico's indigenous population on Monday for forgiveness over the exclusion they have suffered as he led an open-air mass in native languages in impoverished Chiapas state.

Suarez Inda clearly backs Francis' ideas about the role of clerics in contemporary Mexico, echoing the pope's admonition that "pastors should not be bureaucrats and we, bishops, should not have the mentality or attitude of princes".

"Sorry. Sorry, brothers", Francis said in Spanish while celebrating Mass on Monday at the San Cristobal de las Casas church in Mexico's Chiapas state.

Others, he added, "have been carried away by power, money and the law of the market; they have stripped Indians of their lands or have caused them to be polluted". How sad this is.

"Today's world, ravaged as it is by a throwaway culture, needs you!"

Despite the pope's overture, residents of Chiapas said they believe Francis is coming mostly to confirm their faith, not their status as indigenous.

In San Cristobal, the pope acknowledged indigenous Mexicans have been "systematically and structurally" excluded by a society that fails to understand their ancient wisdom.

On Tuesday, Francis plans to go to the city of Morelia in the gang-plagued state of Michoacan.

Connecting phones in vehicles top concern for US owners

When it comes to vehicle segments, General Motors Company [NYSE: GM] had the most vehicles at the top, in this case eight. Power also groups those problems into categories to provide a sense of where shortcomings and successes can be found.

Virtual reality, a reality?

As you might already know, LG's newest flagship smartphone - the G5 - was unveiled at the ongoing Mobile World Congress yesterday. Together, the shutter needs to stay open for a shorter time, reducing the blurring that sometimes mars indoor and night shots.

No. 12 Miami tops No. 11 Louisville 73-65 in a thriller

Miami is ranked in the top 15 for the 11th consecutive week, breaking the school record of 10 consecutive weeks set in 1959-60. OFFICIALS: Pat Driscoll, Tim Comer, Brian O'Connell. "I thought we did that (Monday) against an outstanding Virginia team ".

The Pope concludes his five-day trip in Ciudad Juarez on the USA border, a city which has also been blighted by drug-related murders.

In a subsequent hard-hitting speech to his own bishops, Francis challenged church leaders known for their deference to Mexico's wealthy and powerful to courageously denounce the "insidious threat" posed by the drug trade and not hide behind their own privilege and careers.

Pope Francis at the Wednesday general audience in St. Peter's Square Aug. 26 2016. "But immigration activists say the move effectively pushed migration eastward into the more perilous mountain regions of eastern California and the Arizona desert, contributing to the heightened death toll over the last two decades".

Francis began his first full day in Mexico with a winding ride into the capital's historic center to the delight of tens of thousands greeting history's first Latin American pope. It was a tradition that was embraced by the late bishop of San Cristobal de las Casas, Samuel Ruiz, who ran afoul of both the Mexican church and the Vatican at times for his use of the local ways.

Before Francis entered another stadium in Morelia for a morning Mass, the crowd counted aloud to 43, a gesture to remember dozens of trainee teachers who were abducted and apparently massacred by a drug gang in league with corrupt police in 2014 in the neighboring state of Guerrero.

Vatican spokesman the Rev. Federico Lombardi says: "The pope always talks about migration problems all around the world, of the duties we have to solve these problems in a humane manner, of hosting those who come from other countries in search of a life of dignity and peace".

Lorne Matalon, Fronteras, reporter for Marfa Public Radio, has been reporting on the pope's visit.

Then there are those fiercely protecting their ticket to see Pope Francis in Juarez on Wednesday, like Deacon Doug Breckenridge of St. Rita Catholic Community in Dallas.