http://www.btvi.in/article/read/nation/7342/modi-mann-ki-baat--won-t-spare-uri-attackers
203
20
New Delhi: Mounting the pressure on Pakistan to destroy the terror infrastructure and patronising militants, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday spoke his heart out at the Mann ki Baat saying India will not spare behind the Uri attacks.

"There is lot of anger in the country over Uri attack. We won't spare Uri attackers," he said in a strong message to Pakistan after Jaish-E-Mohammed fidayeens attacked a Army Brigade head quarters in Uri killing 18 soldiers and injuring 20, prompting security personnel to retaliate and eliminate four terrorists.

Appealing for peace in Kashmir, Modi said "it is administration's duty to protect people of Kashmir. Peace, unity and harmony are the ways to resolve problems and move towards development."

"While politicians speak, military shows bravery, we are proud of our army," he said in the Mann ki Baat radio programme.

On Saturday, Modi warned Pakistan the sacrifice of 18 soldiers will not go in vain while all out efforts will be made to isolate Pakistan country globally.

"Terrorists should hear out clearly that India will never forget the Uri attack... I want to tell the leadership of Pakistan that the sacrifice of our 18 jawans will not go in vain," Modi told a largely-attended public meeting on the Kozhikode beach held on the sidelines of the BJP national council meet.

In a blunt warning to Pakistan, Modi said while countries in Asia are working to make the 21st century Asia's, the neighbouring nation is engaged in a conspiracy of causing bloodshed across the continent by sponsoring terrorism and killing innocents.

Asserting that Pakistan was behind terror incidents in Afghanistan, Bangladesh besides India, he said "across the world wherever a terrorist incident happens you will find that either terrorists had gone from there (Pakistan) or come to live there like Osama-bin Laden."

He indicated that India's efforts will be directed at isolating Pakistan diplomatically, saying it has already succeeded in this regard and will speed up measures in this regard.

The Prime Minister, who has been having meetings with top ministers, BJP leaders and service chiefs in the last few days, however, did not spell out the nature of what India's response would be.

Modi said India had never bowed to terror and will never do so in future and will strive to defeat it.

"India has never bowed to terrorism, nor will it ever. It will pause only after defeating it," he said.

On Sunday, BJP president Amit Shah appealed to everyone including other political parties to come together and help the government and Army in their fight against terrorism.

"Nawaz Sharif’s speech at UN shows that Pak is supporting terrorism since beginning. He glorified terrorist Burhan Wani as a leader," Shah said.

"We strongly condemn the Uri attack in which 18 soldiers lost their lives. BJP is taking this incident very seriously."

India has already started the diplomatic efforts in isolating Pakistan. Soon after Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif urged the United Nation for intervening in resolving Kashmir imbroglio, India on Thursday rebuffed the claims and termed Pakistan as an epicentre and “Ivy League” of terrorism and rejected future talks saying "talks and guns don't go together".

In a hard-hitting reply, Minister of State External Affairs MJ Akbar said “we just heard a speech full of threat bluster and rising immaturity and complete disregard of facts.”

Rejecting Sharif's call for dialogue, Akbar said “talks and guns don’t go together.”

“Pakistan at this moment seems to be run by a war machine rather than a government. Pakistan wants dialogue while holding a terrorist gun in its hand,” he said.

Turning the heat on Sharif over Kashmir, Akbar said PoK has been occupied by Pakistan. "The world also knows that Pakistan has been indulged in ethnic cleansing of its own people,” he referring to the atrocities against the people of Balochistan.

On Sharif’s glorification of Burhan Wani, Akbar responded: “We heard the glorification of a terrorist. Wani is declared commander of Hizbul, widely acknowledged as a terror group. It is shocking that a leader of a nation can glorify a self-advertised terrorist at such a forum. This is self incrimination by Pakistan PM."

Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Vikas Swarup retorted saying

“PM Sharif at UNGA says India poses unacceptable conditions to dialogue. India’s only condition is an end to terrorism. This not acceptable?”

He also questioned Sharif for his silence on Sunday’s Uri attack: “Pak PM Sharif at UNGA in complete denial of Uri terror attack. 19 infiltration attempts stopped at LoC this year. Indigenous??!!"

"Pak PM Sharif at UNGA glorifies Hizbul terrorist Burhan Wani in UN’s highest forum. Shows continued Pak attachment to terrorism.”

Exercising its Right of Reply, India responded to Sharif’s “long tirade” with First Secretary in the Permanent Mission of India to the UN Eenam Gambhir saying “the worst violation of human rights is terrorism.

Sunday's Uri attack was "part of a trail of continuous flow of terrorists trained and armed by our neighbor" and tasked to carry out attacks in India.

"What we see in Pakistan ... is a terrorist state, which channelizes billions of dollars, much of it diverted from international aid, to training, financing and supporting terrorist groups as militant proxies against it neighbours," she said.

India sees in Pakistan "a terrorist state", she said. "The worst violation of human rights is terrorism. "When practiced as an instrument of state policy it is a war crime," she said.

"What my country and our other neighbours are facing today is Pakistan's long-standing policy of sponsoring terrorism, the consequences of which have spread well beyond our region," she added.

Gambhir said India sees in Pakistan "a terrorist state" which channelises billions of dollars, much of it diverted from international aid, to training, financing and supporting terrorist groups as militant proxies against it neighbours.

In a reference to JeM chief Masood Azhar and Mumbai terror attack mastermind Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi, she said terrorist entities and their leaders, including many designated by the UN, continue to roam the streets of Pakistan freely and operate with State's support.