http://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/vile-neo-nazi-gang-set-8866054
203
20
National Action say activists took to Argyle Street with racist pop-up food bank

NEO-NAZIS with the slogan “Hitler was Right” have bragged about setting up a food bank for “whites only” on the streets of Glasgow .

But sickened anti-racism campaigners said National Action had no interest in helping the poor. They warned that the fascists were using food handouts and vulnerable homeless people to spread their message of hate.

National Action, who want to build a group capable of “ethnically cleansing Britain”, claimed on their website that members in Scotland opened a pop-up food bank in Glasgow city centre on the last weekend in August.

They said they staged their stunt in Argyle Street and described it as “whites helping whites”.

NA said they mounted the operation with the help of Polish fascists from the violent National Rebirth of Poland group.

Anti-fascist groups have warned that British neo-nazis are increasingly using Polish thugs as muscle on the streets.

National Action website features card celebrating the crimes of Auschwitz child-torturer Mengele

National Action crowed: “A small glimmer of hope appeared on the streets of Glasgow when National

Rebirth Of Poland and National Action Scotland took to the streets together to feed and clothe the white homeless population.”

But Nicola Hay, campaign manager at Show Racism the Red Card Scotland, said National Action’s only aim was to stir up hatred and division.

She added: “It is deeply worrying that they are preying on the most vulnerable in our society to spread hate, and further entrench the divisive climate we find ourselves in.

“It’s not only the marginalised in society that National Action are preying on.

“If you look at their website, they are also attempting to groom young people to adopt their philosophy of prejudice, discrimination and exclusion toward ‘different others’.

“Scotland has been built on migration and diverse communities who have come together to create a better Scotland for all.

“There is no place for this type of hate.”

National Action lowlife at training camp

National Action are extreme even by the standards of the far-right. They have celebrated the crimes of Dr Josef Mengele, who carried out gruesome and murderous experiments on children at the Auschwitz death camp in World War II.

The group’s website features a card with Mengele’s face and the slogan: “Save animals – test on subhumans”.

The fascists have displayed a “Hitler was Right” banner in Newcastle and filmed themselves giving Nazi salutes on a visit to the former Buchenwald concentration camp.

They also hold training camps for their followers, where young fascists are taught Nazi ideology and learn to fight and use knives.

One of National Action’s followers, Zack Davies, 26, used a machete to try to behead an Asian man in a Tesco store last year.

He said the attack was revenge for the murder of soldier Lee Rigby by Islamist fanatics, and told police he targeted his victim because he “looked vaguely foreign”.

Davies is serving life with a minimum term of 14 years.

Fascist groups have been using food aid as a recruiting tool for decades. The Nazis did it themselves before coming to power in Germany.

The sickening group have been blasted by anti-racism campaigners

Dr John Pollard of Cambridge University, an expert on neo-fascism, has warned that modern far-right groups including the Italian Casa Pound are adopting similar tactics.

He said: “Casa Pound and other neo-fascist organisations in Italy have put a lot of effort into ‘social outreach’, including helping the homeless, the unemployed and pensioners.

“Their HQ in the centre of Rome is effectively a squat. It houses a number of homeless families. They have followed this strategy in other towns and cities.

“Of course, this is nothing new. The original Nazis invested heavily in social outreach during the great depression.

“This was instititutionalised into the Winterhilfe – “winter help” – after they came to power.”

National Action have said they want to copy the Greek fascist group Golden Dawn, who use street work and charity to try to gain credibility.

Golden Dawn won seven per cent of the vote and 18 MPs in Greek parliamentary elections last year as voters vented their anger at the country’s economic collapse. The result made them the third-largest group in the Greek parliament.

But Golden Dawn have been accused of a wave of attacks on ethnic minorities, gay people and left-wing opponents, and scores of senior members are now on trial accused of membership of a crime gang.

Leading National Action member Alex Davies has said: “We want to replicate what Golden Dawn were doing in Greece. That’s exactly what we want to do.

“Their charity work, activism and social work has brought them a respect in the eyes of the Greek people. That’s what gained them those seats in parliament.”