http://www.eveningtimes.co.uk/news/14232707.display/
203
20
THE horrors of the Holocaust have been remembered by pupils from across Glasgow and beyond.

In the run up to Holocaust Memorial Day, youngsters in the city have been taking part in events to honour those who have died in genocides.

Their efforts come as the Scottish Government announced more than £280,000 renewed funding to Holocaust Educational Trust.

Renewed funding for the Trust’s Lessons from Auschwitz Project has been confirmed by First Minister Nicola Sturgeon.

The funding will continue to provide post-16 students from every school and college in Scotland the opportunity to participate in a one-day visit to Auschwitz-Birkenau and attend seminars to learn about the Holocaust as well as hearing testimony from a survivor.

Ms Sturgeon said: “Last year marked the 70th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz.

"We also commemorated the 20th anniversary of the genocide at Srebrenica. Both anniversaries are a reminder of the consequences that can arise when people are given a license to exploit difference and encourage hatred.

“As we approach the national Holocaust Memorial Day one way of working to ensure that nothing like the Holocaust ever happens again, is to ensure that it is never forgotten.

“By learning and reflecting on the horrors of the Holocaust the Trust plays an important part in spurring us on to create a better future and a society where people respect each other no matter what their differences.”

Holocaust Remembrance Day - or Yom HaShoah - 2016 begins in the evening of Wednesday, May 4, and ends in the evening of Thursday, May 5.

In Glasgow, pupils from John Paul Academy heard testimony from Holocaust survivor Inge Auerbacher who was imprisoned in the Theresienstadt ghetto in Czechoslovakia.

Of the 15,000 children who had been imprisoned at Theresienstadt, only 100 survived and Inge is one of them.

They also heard from Mukesh Kapila, a doctor and international aid diplomat who is a veteran of humanitarian crises and ethnic cleansing in Iraq, Rwanda, Srebrenica, Afghanistan and Sierra Leone.

He has experience in more than 130 countries serving in senior positions in the British government and at the United Nations, World Health Organization and International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.

Liz Cameron, Executive Member for Children, Young People & Lifelong Learning said: "It is so important for our young people to learn about the atrocities of war and the holocaust.

"As well as taking the time to remember the many thousands of innocent victims who lost their lives in ways that are unimaginable and horrific."

Meanwhile, pupils from Renfrewshire collaborated with East Renfrewshire pupils to hold the first joint service to mark Holocaust Memorial Day.

Pupils spent a night performing drama, singing and displaying their artwork at this year’s memorial event in Giffnock.

The evening event at Eastwood Park Theatre on January 23 featured a drama Don’t Stand By developed and performed by Paisley Grammar pupils while Linwood High provided a touching art exhibition relating to the Holocaust.

There were music performances by the East Renfrewshire Schools Senior Choir and the seven Statement of Commitment’s were read out by pupils from St Luke’s, Isobel Mair, Mearns Castle High, Williamwood, St Ninian’s, Woodfarm and Eastwood High.

This was the first time the neighbouring councils have worked together to remember the Holocaust, and other atrocities across the world, and mark Holocaust Memorial Day; which takes place on Wednesday 27 January.

Renfrewshire’s Provost Anne Hall said: “It is important that we mark Holocaust Memorial Day to ensure that the atrocities of the past are not forgotten.

"The service was a fitting occasion to remember those who have lost their lives across the world.”

For more information on Holocaust Memorial Day visit: www.hmd.org.uk.