http://news.az/articles/karabakh/106880
202
20
Azerbaijani FA Ministry commented on Sargsyan's statement.

"Armenian leadership continues its provocative actions and rhetoric of war instead of learning a lesson from its unsuccessful and irresponsible adventure on the contact line of troops in early April and taking constructive steps to resolve the Nagorno-Karabah conflict", Spokesman for Azerbaijani Foreign Ministry Hikmet Hajiyev said, APA reports.

"Intensification of ceasefire violation by the Armenian side along the line of contac is the result of the policy pursued by Armenian regime", said H.Hajiyev while commenting on the statements by Armenian President Serzh Sargsyan during his visit to the Azerbaijan's occupied region.

Hikmet Hajiyev noted that visiting to the occupied territories of Azerbaijan the Armenian leadership is interested in an escalation of tensions and in their speech there is no any opinions about the region's future, normalization of Armenia's relations with neighboring countries and ensure sustainable peace and security: "Armenia is pushing the country's young people to ethnic hatred, war and massacre with its characteristic of military dictators’ theses about artificial patriotism. Armenian regime in this way trying to deceive the Armenian society, to divert attention from the military losses due to unsuccessful military adventure, to recover completely lost credibility and trust in society."

"The statements of the military-political leadership of Armenia, personally participated in the perpetration of the Khojaly genocide and ethnic cleansing of more than 1 million Azerbaijanis, causing nothing but contempt. Azerbaijani armed forces adequately stopped the criminal actions of the Armenian leadership who targeted peaceful Azerbaijani population and tried to renew the conflict in early April. On the background of changing status quo the Armenian leadership, finally, must realize that the occupation of Azerbaijani territories will never give them the expected results. To prevent re-escalation of tension and to achieve conflict resolution and sustainable peace in the region, Armenia should withdraw all its troops from the occupied territories of Azerbaijan in accordance with the resolutions of the UN Security Council. The sooner the Armenian leadership is aware of this reality, the sooner there will be peace in the region", - said Hikmat Hajiyev.



News.Az