http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/isis-plotting-tourist-massacre-europe-7785999
202
20
An armed policeman patrols on the beach near the RIU Imperial Marhaba hotel in Sousse

Islamic State terrorists are plotting to attack tourists on holiday this summer at Spanish, French and Italian resorts, intelligence agencies believe.

Both German and Italian intelligence agencies have learned that terrorists loyal to ISIS are hoping to pose as refugees, selling ice cream and t-shirts to disguise themselves.

The reports, which have emerged in German newspaper BILD, claim that terrorists also aim to detonate suicide vests and bombs which will be buried under sun beds.

It is claimed that the intelligence comes from a "credible source" in Africa.

Read more: Man finds burglar, chases him to pub and then buys him a pint as they wait for police

The source claims that the terrorists have formed "concrete plans" to launch the attacks.

Video loading Watch next Watch this video again Watch Next Click to play Tap to play The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

BILD reports that the attacks will target crowds on waterfronts, with terrorists gaining access to automatic weapons.

One official told the paper: "It could be a whole new dimension of terror.

"Holiday beaches cannot be protected."

Read more: McDonald's evacuated as two teenage girls hospitalised with severe injuries after 'toxic' gas canister incident

Getty Authorities believe holiday hotspots like the Costa del Sol in Spain could be targeted

The news comes after police on a popular holiday island for Brits have arrested a suspected Islamic State collaborator.

Majorca officers accuse the man - an unnamed suspect who was born in Morocco - of promoting terror attacks in Europe.

Fighters pose for an Islamic State propaganda video

He is also accused of having close links with leaders of the terrorist organisation ISIS who are based in Syria and Iraq.

Read more: Father of former British solider arrested after fighting ISIS claims son went to region to help humanitarian crisis

Officers raided a property in the holiday island’s capital Palma this morning to make the arrest.

Spanish Interior Ministry officials said the police operation had permitted “the rapid neutralisation of a direct threat” and described the suspect as a “threat to national security.”