http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/newsreader-begs-muslims-take-responsibility-7716399
203
20
Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

The video will start in

A newsreader halted her own programme to beg all Muslims to take responsibility for acts of terrorism just weeks after the 'abominable' Brussels bombings .

Nadine Al-Budair, herself a Muslim, controversially begged followers of Islam to acknowledge that terrorists are no longer a rarity, and have been created by their own people.

Speaking in the middle of TV broadcast on a Saudi Arabian news channel, her powerful address implored other Muslims to start 'stop shedding their conscience' and start 'feeling shame'.

In the three minute speech, she said: "Whenever terrorism massacres peaceful civilians, the smart alecs and the hypocrites vie with one another in saying that these people do not represent Islam or the Muslims.

Memri TV Brave Nadine Al-Budair has spoken out against terrorism

"Perhaps one of them could tell us who does represent Islam and the Muslims."

She goes on to add: "It is we who blow ourselves up. It is we who blow up others.

Read more: ISIS feared to be planning crude attack using rotting animal testicles

"Why do we shed our own conscience?"

"Don't these perpetrators emerge from our environment? Don't their families belong to our society?

Memri TV Nadine halted the news programme to deliver the powerful address

"After the abominable Brussels bombings, it's time for us to feel shame and to stop acting as if the terrorists are a rarity.

"We must admit that they are present everywhere, that their nationality is Arab and that they adhere to the religion of Islam.

"We must acknowledge that we are the ones who gave birth to them."

Nadine has spoken out about her people in the past, criticising Muslim people in her column for a Kuwait newspaper over their attempts to blame the Western world for their problems.

ISIS Nadine says terrorists are 'no longer a rarity'

She wrote: "It is strange that we condemn instead of apologising to the world.

Read more: Chilling new ISIS video shows 'gay' man being thrown off roof

"It is strange that we condemn instead of addressing what is happening in our midst."