http://article.wn.com/view/2016/04/07/Panama_Papers_David_Cameron_admits_he_had_stake_in_fathers_f/
203
20
UK Prime Minister David Cameron had a stake in an offshore fund set up by his late father, Ian, until six years ago, he said, answering for the first time the question of whether he ever benefited from the investment.

Jeremy Corbyn has said he is not interested in allegations about what David Cameron did or did not do with a pig while a student at university. In an interview with the New...

Standards watchdogs will not investigate Prime Minister David Cameron over the off-shore controversy revealed by the Panama Papers data leak. The Parliamentary Commissioner...

David Cameron will not be investigated over off-shore trust and tax affairs by parliamentary watchdog

PM has been fending off questions about his finances in the wake of Panama Papers, but where does his money come from? Downing Street has had a torrid week fending off...

LONDON — Former UK Prime Minister David Cameron has announced he's stepping down as an MP and, unsurprisingly, people have already started cracking jokes on Twitter. It's...

(CNN)British Prime Minister David Cameron has left his Downing Street home for the last time as leader of the country. He attends his final Prime Minister's Questions at...

If Clinton wins, more in GOP say no to 9 on Supreme Court

Hillary Clinton and the FBI: acrimony could leave US more divided than ever

Related News

David Cameron Thinks Obese People Should Lose Benefits If They Don’t Try To Lose Weight According to the Guardian, David Cameron outlined new policies on Saturday that would allow the government to withhold about £100 a week in benefits from people who aren’t making the effort to resolve their obesity. David Cameron and his supporters expect the obese to seek medical attention for their weight problem, or cut out drugs and alcohol. Under the current system, people... The Inquisitr





David Cameron Resigns As An MP, Twitter Responds With Relentless Jokes David Cameron has resigned. Again. This time, the man who publicly proclaimed “Brits don’t quit” has quit as an MP just a few months after quitting as prime minister. As always, tweeters were quick to respond with heaps of jokes at the former Tory PM’s expense. DAVID CAMERON: So I'll just leave this here, shall I? EVERYONE: No, please don't. DAVID CAMERON: OK bye! Enjoy! Bye!... Huffington Post





@David_Cameron: Former Prime Minister of Britain David Cameron served as the Prime Minister of United Kingdom for six years before he resigned. (Source: AP Photo) Moments after David Cameron resigned as the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, he changed his Twitter bio. The updated profile read, ‘former prime minister and MP for Whitney’. READ | LIVE: Theresa May is Prime Minister of United Kingdom Cameron who submitted his... Indian Express





PigGate claims: David Cameron says he is 'too busy' to sue over pig allegations Prime Minister David Cameron has hit out at allegations he carried out an obscene act with a dead pig while at university. Mr Cameron said people would “see straight through” the motives behind the book which contains a series of damaging allegations including stories about him smoking cannabis at Oxford University and cocaine allegedly being in circulation at a party hosted by... Belfast Telegraph



