http://www.eastbaytimes.com/news/ci_29648242/letters-alameda-municipal-power-having-trouble-fixing-broken
202
20
Broken streetlight seems hard to fix

The March 4 edition had an interesting letter from Glenn Steiger, general manager of Alameda Municipal Power, about the virtues of the new LED streetlights.

Not to imply incompetence of management, but the new fixture installed on pole 265, Seaview Park Way at Kara Road in Harbor Bay, does not work. The fixture was changed in late October and did not work. I talked to the installation crew the day after they changed the fixture. They said they were aware of the problem, but it was not their problem because it was a power issue and they had reported it.

After a couple of days, I called AMP customer service and reported that the streetlight still was not working. A few days later, an AMP technician came by in the evening and confirmed that the light was not working. He told me that he had checked everything he could, and the problem must be the new fixture. He also said that he could install a new fixture, but he didn’t have any replacements.

In January, I called AMP again and left a phone message about the status of pole 265. I still have not received an answer, and the streetlight still does not work.

All of this raises the old question about how many people it takes to change a light bulb. I hope that someday AMP can get the streetlight working without having to resort to creating a special study group, hiring consultants or securing a new parcel tax for streetlights.

Chester Plomgren

Trump shouldn’t even be U.S. citizen

For all those who think that Donald Trump says it like it is, I’d like to remind them of the comment he made about John McCain last summer.

“He’s not a war hero,” Trump said. “He’s a war hero because he was captured. I like people that weren’t captured.”

McCain served his country in battle when called upon. He suffered under enemy torture and survived to come home and continue his life of service.

Trump has failed in numerous business ventures, leaving others holding the bag. He’s replaced American workers with foreigners and he has insulted every person who has worn the uniform of the U.S. military. Trump does not deserve to be commander in chief and president of the United States. In fact, Donald Trump doesn’t deserve to be an American citizen.

Russ Button

History’s lessons not learned very well

About that new billboard: We haven’t learned our lesson, have we? The tenets of Adolf Hitler’s “Mein Kampf” are alive and well in the most unlikely of places. Those tenets, based upon the notion of Aryan racial superiority: ethnic cleansing of non-Germans, including Jews and Gypsies; Lebensraum for the favored; the reviling of those indigenous people from whom the land is taken. That unlikely place is the state of Israel.

Israel’s tenets, based upon favor supposedly conferred by their God, include ethnic cleansing of the Palestinians and the Bedouins of the Negev and other non-Jews, Lebensraum for the favored, and the reviling of those from whom the land is taken.

The switch: Get the Americans, the biggest suckers in the universe, to help pay for it. And, as the saying goes: Never give a sucker an even break. Stand by us? Indeed, we already have.

So, this entangling alliance that George Washington cautioned us to avoid, we are now wallowing in with great relish.

Robert Sinuhe

Oakland

Blame those who hire illegal immigrants

Ruben Navarrette’s column, “A former Mexican president’s foul response to Trump,” is wrong in assuming that Mexico is to blame for undocumented immigration because it cannot provide jobs for its people. Mexico can no more supply jobs to its poor than America can.

If American politicians were really concerned about undocumented immigration, they would have those who hire undocumented immigrants jailed instead of the immigrants. That would dry up the availability of jobs for undocumented immigrants almost instantly and remove the incentive for them to come to this country.

The agricultural and service industries would scream like babies to Washington for laborers and just maybe we would get the immigration reform this country needs. It’s time to stop criminalizing undocumented immigrants and start criminalizing those who hire them.

Robert Magginetti

Hayward