https://neurope.eu/article/can-really-expect-syrias-future/
202
20
Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Google+ Share on LinkedIn +

The international community has embraced the possibility of a Syrian peace project – pinning its hopes on the peace talks between Syria’s Bashar al-Assad regime and its various opponents represented by the High Negotiations Committee (HNC).

But it is difficult to understand how there can be any ounce of optimism. Peace seems quite impossible, given the chaotic situation in Syria.

The fact that the peace talks, if they will proceed because in reality they are indirect negotiations since both sides are still not ready for face-to-face meetings, is rather discouraging.

The involvement of foreign countries is another discouraging sign, especially in view of the Kurdish question. For instance, Turkey’s opposition to the participation of the Democratic Union Party (PYD) in the Syria peace talks threatens to leave only the Kurdish National Council (KNC) to represent the Kurds. This means, that in the extremely improbable event there is a positive outcome, the future of Syria will also be marked by a civil conflict between the Kurdish political factors.

However, the main problem is that the international community is expecting to find a peaceful and durable solution for the Syrian crisis from a very different component.

The Assad regime – a dictatorship which provoked massacres against its own population – describes itself as secular. On the other side, however, the radical Salafist element is strongest among the opposition forces being represented by the HNC. Now the entire opposition to Assad is deeply divided over whether Salafists should be allowed to participate in a future unity government.

What is more, we need to consider Islamic State which has its own agenda.

Islamic State

Islamic State is acting as an already formed state with state-like structures and characteristics. What is more, IS acts as a totalitarian state as it does not tolerate any other organisation or structure inside what it considers to be its territory. For instance, many rival Salafist leaders have been executed since 2014 because they did not declare allegiance to IS.

With its ecumenical vision, Islamic State aims to create a state out of the actual national borders and connecting elements will only be the Salafist version of Sunni Islam and the Arab language.

The fact that there are hundreds of women among the foreigners being recruited by Islamic State and arriving in IS territory can be interpreted in two ways. One is that Islamic State wants to convince and draw radical Muslims all over the world. The other is that, by accepting foreigners who are not destined to become fighters, it is replenishing the needs of a new population, creating new subjects of its so-called state.

As regards the Syria peace talks, Islamic State was excluded. After all, IS would not negotiate with national and “infidel” forces.

Islamic State will continue to fight for a non-national Salafist Caliphate in territories in Syria and Iraq and will continue to pursue its plans to expand operations into Jordan, Palestinian Territories, the Sinai Peninsula and Saudi Arabia.

A Salafist opposition?

The High Negotiations Committee (HNC), which has been recognised by the international community as the official representative of the Syrian opposition to Assad, is highly influenced by the Salafists.

There are two Salafists in the HNC that are playing an important role. Ahrar al-Sham controls the Shariah Office and the Political Office of the Islamic Front, which is the most effective among the opposition forces. Jaish al-Islam leader Mohammad Alloush is acting as the top negotiator of the HNC.

Jaish Al Islam and Ahrar Al Sham, although they aim to install a Salafist government and impose Sharia law in Syria, maintain privileged relations with Turkey and Saudi Arabia. They have also excluded any trans-national goals and declared themselves Syrian organisations.

Both have a sophisticated arsenal and enjoy considerable public support in the areas they operate thanks to the ‘government’ services they offer. Ahram al-Sham possesses mobile artillery, tanks and anti-tank missiles and its force is estimated between 10,000 and 20,000 fighters.

But it is not enough. Al Islam and Ahrar Al Sham have a rather turbulent past. They were formed in the same environment as Islamic State and Nusra Front and when Islamic State became strong enough it turned its arms against them.

It is also not clear whether al-Qaeda was totally absent of the formation process of those organisations. It has been reported in the media that at least some of its leading figures were somehow affiliated or in contact with al-Qaeda. For example, Abu Khalid al-Suri, a co-founder of Ahrar al-Sham, was a representative of al-Qaeda’s leader Ayman al’Zawahiri with the task of unifying Salafist groups in Syria.

Islamic Front was responsible for the Adra massacre in December 2013 in which 32 civilians of Alawite, Druze, Christian and Ismailite religion were killed. Jaish al-Islam is also accused of war crimes.

The Salafist organisations and militias that influence the HNC have held regular joint operations with Nusra Front, which is affiliated with al-Qaeda, against both Assad forces and Islamic State.

And what about the Nusra Front?

Since its founding in 2012, Nusra Front has been the official representative of al-Qaeda in Syria. Unlike Islamic State, it seeks out cooperation with other organisations and it co-exists with other Salafist groups as well as the Free Syrian Army’s units in the areas it operates.

Its fierce fights against Islamic State, as well as the international prestige the affiliation with al-Qaeda offers, has made Nusra Front a valuable ally of a considerable organisations and militias inside the Islamic Front and even inside the HNC.

Even though Nusra Front has similarities with Islamic State, the two separated in April 2013. Since then, they have fought several times and each side suffered heavy losses.

Nusra Front has a force of some 8,000 fighters, a strong majority of whom are Syrians. It also has its own agenda that is aimed to attract other Salafist groups, to form an Islamic government and impose Shariah law.

An example of what Nusra Front has in mind for the future of Syria was seen recently in an incident in the town of Maaret al-Numan. Nusra forces attacked a peaceful demonstration of civilians carrying Syrian flags and not the Salafist black flag in March. The group also attacked the headquarters of ‘Division 13’which is a member of the Free Syrian Army.

Even though the incidents mentioned above are disturbing, Nusra Front is considered indispensable and is heavily supported by many in the opposition. Its isolation or eradication from Syria is out of any discussion.

Is there still hope?

Taking into consideration all the above facts and factors, it is difficult to imagine a peaceful future for Syria within its previous borders.

It is a question about who really will participate as a representative of the anti-Assad forces in the peace talks. How sure are we that the moderates represent a valuable force? How sure are we that the Salafist component of the HNC will respect agreements, if any, and will cooperate with fundamentally secularist forces to form a joint government solution?

With all these armed organisations trying to impose their own goals, is the salvation of Syria’s integrity still a viable question? Or should we start talking about drawing up a new map of the Middle East?