http://nation.com.pk/national/05-Oct-2016/bilawal-ready-to-welcome-dissidents-back-in-ppp
130
13
ISLAMABAD - Pakistan People’s Party Chairman Bilawal Bhutto Zardari yesterday said he was ready to accept dissidents back in the party.



Addressing a meeting of the PPP Central Punjab Coordination Committee here, Bilawal said those who left the party could come back any time.



Previously, the young PPP chief had been against accepting the dissidents who left the party during difficult times.



Bilawal gave a message to his workers to gear up in Punjab with full force.

He urged his party members to come out and do whatever they can to activate the masses.



“Those who left the party may have some reasons.

We can welcome them back,” he was quoted as saying in the meeting.



The PPP Punjab Coordination Committee briefed Bilawal on the membership process of the party inside Punjab.



The committee submitted its detailed report containing recommendations for the reorganisation of the PPP from provincial to district level.



President PPP Women Wing Faryal Talpur and Political Secretary to Chairman PPP Jameel Soomro attended the meeting.

The PPP coordination committee for Central Punjab includes Raja Pervez Ashraf, Rana Farooq Ahmad Khan, Nadeem Afzal Chan, Manzoor Ahmad and Nadeem Kaira.



The committee members said they had visited each district and held party workers meetings to seek their opinion for the new organisations in the province.



The committee members claimed there was an enthusiasm among the workers for the new organisations and pledged that the party will be highly mobilised at grass-root level after the announcement of new office-bearers.



The PPP chief was in the town to primarily attend the All Parties Conference called by Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif last day.



At the APC, Bilawal said, the PPP stood by the government despite all the differences as India threatened regional peace after the Uri attack last month.



Meanwhile yesterday, Bilawal constituted a Disciplinary Committee to investigate violation, misconduct and indiscipline in Local Government Election 2016.



This Disciplinary Committee will be headed by former Chief Minister Sindh Syed Qaim Ali Shah while Jam Mehtab Hussain Dehar and Ijaz Jakhrani are appointed members of the Committee, a party statement said.

