http://personalliberty.com/the-wire-your-week-in-review-9/
202
20
From Sandy Hook to the Sunshine State — and most points in between — it’s time for a look back at the week that was. Personal Liberty Digest® presents: The WIRE!

Hillary Clinton kicked off the week in predictably poor fashion, telling Meet the Press that jeopardizing National security by keeping top secret information on an illegal server in a bathroom “(W)as not the best choice. It was a mistake.”



That’s what he said.

Just when you thought Nana couldn’t get even more appalling, the old girl announced this week that the Sandy Hook massacre was caused by gun manufacturers, the NRA and Bernie Sanders; neither of whom is in any way responsible for the crime.



Sounds like the setup to a bad joke: a gun maker, a cowboy and a communist walk into a bar…

To make matters worse, even as Hillary falsely linked the NRA to Sandy Hook, her campaign announced another big dollar fundraiser cohosted by NRA lobbyist Jeff Forbes. I knew she was soulless, but DAMN!



“I do this for a living, and she scares the crap out of me!”

Sparks flew on the campaign trail this week as Hillary and Senator Bernie Sanders tore into each other, each claiming the other isn’t qualified to be President. An aging, possibly brain-damaged sociopath and an aging, possibly brain-damaged communist fighting over who’s the worse choice? I’ll happily watch THIS show.



Apparently, it never occurred to either of them that they’re BOTH right.

A photo-op went awry this week when Hillary tried to board the New York City Subway system, only to discover it’s a little tricky for sheltered old bluebloods. She’s confused by the subway, and she doesn’t know how to drive. It’s a good thing she’s filthy rich, or she’d be stuck at “the home” forever!



“It’s not one car to a person? But what if one of THEM TOUCHES me?”

Meanwhile, former President Bill Clinton hit the wall while stumping for the old girl, attacking the “Black Lives Matter” movement for their role in violent urban crime. The race for the Democrat nomination is certainly providing some unexpected headlines.



Notorious rapist clashes with thugs in defense of sociopath war profiteer.

It was a big week for prospective First Fella, who told another audience that “Things are coming apart around the world” under Obama’s Administration. Apparently, Bubba forgot who served as Secretary of State for much of it.



“Seriously Bill: STOP. HELPING.”

President Obama took a weird shot at Republicans this week, claiming they were endangering pregnant women by “blocking” steps to stop the Zika virus. That begs the question: when did Democrats start caring about babies?



“If they die before they reach the ‘clinic,’ we can’t sell them for full retail.”

New reports indicate that the ISIS-linked Islamofascist group Boko Haram is now forcing the girls they kidnapped to serve as suicide bombers. This despite a concerted social media effort by such worthies as the First Lady.



“WHAT? And I made up a whole hashtag and everything? I can’t even right now!”

A special snowflake braved the Florida heat to shriek at Governor Rick Scott when he tried to buy a coffee at a Sunshine State Starbucks. The “social justice warrior” was so obscene, Scott left rather than ruin other patrons’ experience. She couldn’t be a more perfect SJW if she looted a Walgreen’s and blamed it on so-called “white privilege.”



If she’s so worried about “the poor,” what’s she doing drinking $6 lattes?

Record turnout at primary polls Nationwide this week, despite Democrat Party fantasies about Republicans’ so-called “voter suppression.” Even disgraced former Attorney General Eric Holder got in on the act, pretending voter ID laws are “Democracy being stolen.”



Sounds bad. Not “trafficking weapons to the Sinaloa Cartel and then lying about it under oath” bad, but still…

Online payment giant PayPal cancelled a multimillion dollar project in protest after North Carolina passed a law mandating that boys can’t use the girls’ bathroom. However, Paypal will continue to do business with Islamofascist countries like the UAE and Malaysia — which consider being LGBT a capital offense — because — um — Islam, maybe?



Meanwhile, every teenage boy in North Carolina scrapped plans to “identify” as female.

And that’s your week in review! For the Personal Liberty Digest®, I’m Ben Crystal saying “See you next week, on The WIRE!”