http://www.elpasotimes.com/story/news/world/2016/04/10/brussels-terror-attack-organizers-planned-france-next/82861862/
203
20
Skip Ad Ad Loading... x Embed x Share Prosecutors say the Brussels attackers were originally targeting Paris in a second wave of attacks.Video provided by Newsy Newslook

A handout image released by the Belgian Federal Police on April 7, 2016, shows a suspect wanted in connection with the Brussels attacks of March 22 that killed 32 people. (Photo: Belgian Federal Police)

The group responsible for the deadly bombings in Brussels had initially planned to attack France, Belgium's federal prosecutor said Sunday.

The suspects were "surprised by the speed of the progress in the ongoing investigation" and decided to attack Brussels instead, the office said in a statement. The alleged organizers of the Brussels attacks were part of the same group behind the Paris massacre in November, federal prosecutors said.

The statements from prosecutors come after the arrest of Mohamed Abrini, who was described as the "man in the hat" or the "man in white." captured on surveillance footage with the two suicide bombers at Brussels Airport, RTBF reported. Abrini and three others were charged with "terrorist murders" and conducting the "activities of a terrorist group" in connection with the Brussels attacks.

“It’s fresh proof of the very real threat that weighs on all of Europe, and on France in particular,” French Prime Minister Manuel Valls said.

Belgian Justice Minister Koen Geens told VRT network it amounted to “a dirty war” when more attacks could be expected in Belgium, France or beyond.

"We need to remain very alert and new cells can pop up at any moment. The facts have already taught us that,” Geens added.

The suicide bombers killed 16 people at the Brussels Airport on March 22, and another blast claimed the lives of another 16 people at a city subway station.

Abrini confessed he was the "man in the hat" seen in the surveillance footage, Belgian prosecutors said.

The other suspects were identified as Osama Krayem, Herve B. M. and Bilal E. M. Krayem, who is known to have left the Swedish city of Malmo to fight in Syria.

Investigators found links between the group behind Brussels attacks and the one that killed 130 in Paris Nov. 13. Authorities said a series of raids and arrests leading up to the Brussels attack, notably the arrest of key suspect Salah Abdeslam on March 18, prompted the suspects to change course and speed up the plan.

Several connections surfaced involving Abrini. Surveillance footage shows Abrini driving Abdeslam to Paris two days before the deadly rampage. Abdeslam's arrest occurred four days before the Brussels explosions.

Authorities said Abrini grew up with Abdeslam and his brother, Brahim Abdeslam, both suspects in the Paris attacks. They believe he also knew Abdelhamid Abbaoud, the Paris attackers' ringleader.

Brahim Abdeslam blew himself up in the Paris bombings. Abbaoud died in a police raid shortly after the attacks.

Abrini's fingerprints and DNA were found in a car used in Paris, as well as an apartment in a Brussels neighborhood that was used by the airport bombers.

Abrini was also believed to have traveled to Syria, where his younger brother died in 2014 in the Islamic State’s Francophone brigade.

Contributing: Associated Press

Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1S3w2FU