http://blogs.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/mind-the-gap/pakistan-will-never-get-kashmir/
202
20
It makes a lot of sense to initiate peace initiatives with Pakistan. Pakistanis should start dreaming of getting a train ride to Delhi, or Mumbai or other places of historical importance but there is no point in enticing them with hopes of rearranging the borders. Kashmir is an integral part of India and it’s high time that Indian politicians across the board should draft a strategy of deleting Article 370.

We need to scrap this article which prevents people from other states from buying property and settling in the state; the earlier, the better. Simultaneously, we should accelerate the integration of Kashmiris into the rest of the country. India needs to live up to its constitutional guarantee of equal rights and equal status to all people, irrespective of caste, creed, religion or state of origin. If people from all over India can still buy property in the overcrowded cities of Mumbai and Delhi, then they should definitely be allowed to enjoy the beautiful surroundings of Kashmir valley.

Kashmir Valley is India’s ‘Switzerland’ and when it gets unbearably hot in the cities, because of the climatic changes taking place, it can become a holiday hub for people who want to relax, avoiding the exhaustive summer heat. Pakistan will eventually get straight. The recent terror attack in Pathankot was another example of the fact that every time India approaches Pakistan for peace, someone, somewhere gets the thought of carrying out a terrorist attack. People of Pakistan, in the digital age, know a lot about India. They see our movies more than they see any other movies. They speak our language and when doors are closed at night and dinner has been eaten, it is Indian movies and Indian tv programmes that are watched or recorded.

India needs to fix its own problem. One of the worst cases of ethnic cleansing of Kashmiri pundits was facilitated by Jihadists from across the border. Several hundred thousand Kashmiri Hindu pundits were forced to leave Kashmir and settle somewhere else in India. Systematic killings of innocent Hindus in Kashmir, along with the capturing and raping of Kashmiri girls, has forced thousands to flee the state since the 1990’s.

The western countries were very reluctant to support India in the 1990’s, but today ,India stands as a fantastic example of linguistic and religious tolerance. With the Middle-East being utterly divided and absorbed in sectarian violence, where many sovereign and independent countries are becoming a battle ground for jihadist movements; India stands apart. India is a place of unity. Here, there are more states with more than a couple dozen languages, living side by side in harmony and we have survived as a single country. Very few countries in the world have a greatly diverse society such as ours when it comes to the variety of languages and dialects spoken. It is widely predicted that India is expected to experience an unprecedented economic growth in the coming decade. Western countries are eager to participate and “get a piece of the pie”. Our standing is stronger in the West than that of Pakistan. Pakistan saw a deportation of nearly 100,000 of it’s citizens who have been sent back to Pakistan, including ones from western countries.



The more it is discovered that terror attacks are sponsored and originate from Pakistani soil, the more visa restrictions will be leveed against Pakistanis in general. The European Union is under tremendous pressure to process a huge number of asylum seekers who have come to European countries and they have asked Pakistan to take back all the Pakistani migrants who are found to be residing in Europe illegally. After the New Year’s Eve incident in Cologne, Germany where law enforcement officials have reported that heavily intoxicated men, a group of over 1000 in number, committed mass sexual assaults on young German girls which sent shock waves across all of Europe, there are already debates about imposing even stricter immigration rules. Even liberal countries like Sweden, Denmark and Norway have already decided to tighten their asylum rules and rules for entry to their countries.



In the future, it will not be possible to immigrate as easily as it has been in recent years. Pakistan needs to create a stable country for its young people. It has to solve its own problems first and then bother about solving its neighbouring country’s problems. It has to manage its own territory before wanting to grab even more. Eat what is on your plate first and then demand more food please.

There have been many areas of co-operation between Pakistan and India; such as in the field of knowledge, sharing information, health care issues, exchanging goods and services, etc. But India’s territory is an integral part of its identity and there can be no compromise on that issue. Pakistan should know this and if it wants a friendship with India, it should simultaneously start closing down those Jihad factories of Jaish-e-Mohammed and Lashkar-e-Toiba. Already, in 2008, the former prime minister of the United Kingdom, Gordon Brown, stated the obvious in Islamabad Pakistan. He said that 75% of all serious terror plots investigated at that time, revealed some sort of connection to Pakistan. The recent terror attack in San Bernardino, California, having been committed by a Pakistani couple, has once again brought the limelight on Pakistan.

Shutting down madrassas and mosques suspected of radicalization is in Pakistan’s best interest. Its ruling military class loves to go abroad and sip tea in the cafes of London and New York. Therefore, it is obvious that the world demands that Pakistan improve its track record before making any ultimate demands.

India will offer friendship, but never Kashmir.