http://minnesota.cbslocal.com/2016/01/07/4-things-to-know-stillwater-school-closings-ny-miners-trapped-charlie-hebdo-more/
202
20
MINNEAPOLIS (WCCO) – From a community meeting addressing the potential closing of three elementary schools in Stillwater to the anniversary of the terror attacks on the French newspaper Charlie Hebdo, here’s a look at the four stories to know about from January 7.

Community Meeting Held To Address Stillwater School Closings

A community meeting being held at Stillwater City Hall Thursday night to address the potential closing of three elementary schools is expected to get heated.

The Stillwater Area School District introduced a proposal that would close three elementary schools. They said the schools are no longer efficient to operate due to low enrollment.

Parents are upset because they believe smaller class sizes are beneficial for learning.

The meeting is set to begin at 5:30 p.m.

Miners Rescued In Upstate New York

Emergency crews rescued 17 miners in Central New York who were trapped overnight in the elevator of a salt mine.

According to Thompkins County authorities, all 17 miners have been rescued. They are being checked out for injuries.

The workers were trapped since late last night. It’s unclear how it happened.

Possible Act Of Terrorism Deflected On 1 Year Anniversary Of Charlie Hebdo

French authorities are investigating another act of possible terrorism on the one year anniversary of the Charlie Hebdo massacre in Paris.

On Thursday, police shot and killed a man who was carrying a knife and had wires hanging from his clothes at a police station.

His intentions are still unclear.

One year ago, two brothers stormed the newspaper’s offices, beginning three days of terror that left 17 people dead.

Obama Takes Part In ‘Guns In America’ Event

On Thursday night, President Obama will take part in a televised town-hall-style event called “Guns in America.”

The event follows the president’s emotional announcement earlier this week of a series of executive actions aimed at reducing gun violence.

The issue is a top priority of Obama’s administration in the new year.

The event will air on CNN at 7 p.m.