http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/718246/Russia-war-warship-Mediterranean-Vladimir-Putin
130
13
GETTY Russia has sent a warship to the Med

The Russian missile corvette left its Black Sea Fleet base of Sevastopol on Thursday and is heading to join a group of Russian warships in the Mediterranean, the Kremlin confirmed. The Mirazh, armed with Malakhit cruise missiles, follows another two Black Sea Fleet missile corvettes, The Serpukhov and The Zelyony Dol equipped with Kalibr long-range cruise missiles, which had been due to reach the Mediterranean on Wednesday. Russian Navy representative Nikolay Voskresensky said: “It is planned that the Serpukhov and the Zeleny Dol will go to the Mediterranean as part of a planned rotation that will join up with the permanent naval task force.”

GETTY The ships joined Russia's naval fleet

The Kremlin said the ships would assist in the fight against the barbaric Islamic State (ISIS). The move follows Putin's huge four-day “civil defence” drill, where 40 million people were evacuated. The massive drill set alarm bells ringing in Washington and London, with tensions already high over disagreements in Syria. Meanwhile Russia sent a chilling warning to the West last week that his influence is spreading across Asia after the announcement of a two-week military drill with Pakistan. America has repeatedly condemned Russia’s actions in Syria, and last week it released a statement saying it was leading to death and destruction. A spokesman for the US State Department said: “Extremist groups will continue to exploit the vacuums that are there in Syria to expand their operations, which could include attacks against Russian interests, perhaps even Russian cities. Russia will continue to send troops home in body bags, and will continue to lose resources, perhaps even aircraft.”

Inside the Russian Army Thu, October 27, 2016 A look inside the powerful Russian Army. Play slideshow Ministry of Defence Russia 1 of 31 Combat divers are armed with night vision goggles and underwater submachine guns

GETTY Relations between Russia and the USA have broken down due to disagreements over Syria