http://www.wnd.com/2016/04/saudi-tv-host-goes-nuclear-on-terror-hypocrites/
203
20
A female news anchor in Saudi Arabia blasted fellow Arabs for terrorism in a video clip that’s going viral.

Saudi columnist and television anchor Nadine Al-Budair harshly criticized Muslims in the Arab world as “hypocrites” for failing to admit terrorism does not represent their faith. She said it was time for Muslims to own up to elements of their faith that encourage followers to commit terrorist attacks.

In an April 3 monologue on Saudi Arabia’s Rotana Khalijiyah TV following the Brussels attacks, Al-Budair said, “After the abominable Brussels bombings, it’s time for us to feel shame and to stop acting as if the terrorists are a rarity. … We must admit that they are present everywhere, that their nationality is Arab, and that they adhere to the religion of Islam.”

Get the hottest, most important news stories on the Internet – delivered FREE to your inbox as soon as they break! Take just 30 seconds and sign up for WND’s Email News Alerts!

Al-Budair highlighted an education system that enforces memorization of hardline Salafist texts, as well as schools and universities which “told them the others are infidels.”

She criticized those who insist terrorists do not represent Islam.

“Whenever terrorism massacres peaceful civilians, the smart alecs and the hypocrites vie with one another in saying that these people do not represent Islam or the Muslims. Perhaps one of them could tell us who does represent Islam and the Muslims,” she said.

Al-Budair cynically pointed out the number of Arab officials who try to prove that “everything that is happening has nothing to do with the Muslims, and that the terrorists are highway robbers and homeless alcoholics and drug addicts.”

“We all know that the number of the homeless in Europe is very high,” she said. “They sleep in the streets and beg for alms, and some of them are alcoholics or drug addicts, but we do not expect these addicts or criminals to even consider coming here and blowing up a mosque or a street in our city. It is we who blow ourselves up. It is we who blow up others. … Why do we shed our own conscience? Don’t these perpetrators emerge from our environment? Don’t their families belong to our society? Didn’t anyone you know – someone from your city, a neighbor, someone from your street, a relative, a nephew, a grandson, a father, or a mother – go to Syria or Iraq to wage jihad?”

Order “Disinformation: Former Spy Chief Reveals Secret Strategy for Undermining Freedom, Attacking Religion and Promoting Terrorism” or the companion film, “Disinformation: The Secret Strategy To Destroy The West.” Get both the book and DVD together – at a very special reduced price.

Al-Budair said it’s time to admit “that we all – our different sects and faiths, the Sunnis and the Shia – adhere to one school and one school only: the ‘freezing of the mind’ school. Don’t ask! Don’t think! Don’t resist orders! Welcome to the Arab Mashriq.

“Now the old supporters (of terrorism) have the audacity to declare that they denounce bombings everywhere, and that the killing of civilians constitutes an attack on the religion. Where are the sheikhs of yesterday? Why don’t they have the courage to declare that they are the ones who said that Jihad is obligatory, and who legalized political wars, using futile and disgraceful exegeses, which permit killing, enslavement, and destruction?”