http://www.tamilnet.com/art.html?catid=13&artid=29008
202
20
Nadesan: there will be no post-LTTE scenario [TamilNet, Saturday, 11 April 2009, 12:35 GMT]

Head of Liberation Tigers Political section, B. Nadesan, in an interview to India's weekly magazine Tehelka, said that, "[t]here will not be a post-LTTE scenario. Look around the world, and you will see the desire for freedom and dignity in the hearts and minds of all Tamils. The LTTE is seen as the way to achieve the political aspirations of the Tamil people," and added that the International Community should work towards "fulfilling the political aspirations of the Tamil people by recognizing their struggle for self-determination and a homeland," instead of waiting for a "post-LTTE scenario, which is never going to come."



Even while Colombo claims that its military is closing in on the "safe zone" where more than 250,000 civilians are cramped in, and that it is close to "wiping out the LTTE," Nadesan says "[o]n the military aspect, in a war, setbacks and advancements are unavoidable. What matters most is what we achieve in the end."



On his call for a ceasefire, Nadesan told Tehelka that "Sri Lanka keeps accelerating its genocidal war [against the Tamils]. A ceasefire is needed to address the humanitarian crisis and for people to get essential relief supplies right where they live.



"Innocent children, mothers and elders are being massacred by the Sri Lankan armed forces everyday. Therefore, there is an urgent need to push the Sri Lankan government towards a ceasefire. We urge the international community not to go along with Sri Lanka’s uprooting of Tamils, being carried out in the guise of “fighting terrorism”. We appeal to the international community to halt this war immediately and facilitate a negotiation for a permanent political settlement based on the Tamils’ right to self-determination," Nadesan added.



External Links:

Tehelka : A Ceasefire Is Needed To End The Genocide By Sri Lanka’s Army [TamilNet, Saturday, 11 April 2009, 12:35 GMT]Even while Colombo claims that its military is closing in on the "safe zone" where more than 250,000 civilians are cramped in, and that it is close to "wiping out the LTTE," Nadesan says "[o]n the military aspect, in a war, setbacks and advancements are unavoidable. What matters most is what we achieve in the end."On his call for a ceasefire, Nadesan told Tehelka that "Sri Lanka keeps accelerating its genocidal war [against the Tamils]. A ceasefire is needed to address the humanitarian crisis and for people to get essential relief supplies right where they live."Innocent children, mothers and elders are being massacred by the Sri Lankan armed forces everyday. Therefore, there is an urgent need to push the Sri Lankan government towards a ceasefire. We urge the international community not to go along with Sri Lanka’s uprooting of Tamils, being carried out in the guise of “fighting terrorism”. We appeal to the international community to halt this war immediately and facilitate a negotiation for a permanent political settlement based on the Tamils’ right to self-determination," Nadesan added.