http://www.milwaukeesun.com/index.php/sid/247534951
203
20
U.S. scolds Israel over ethnic cleansing remarks

Milwaukee Sun Saturday 10th September, 2016

• Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in a video on Friday has accused Palestinian leaders of engaging in ethnic cleansing

WASHINGTON, DC - Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has received a rare scolding from the United States after accusing Palestinian leaders of engaging in ethnic cleansing and bigotry.

The prime minister posted a video on his website on Friday which was also placed on social media, in which he says the Palestinians want to form a state without Jews, and that the phrase for this is ethnic cleansing.

He repeats his assertion at the end of the video, taking a swipe at calls for the resumption of peace talks, declaring that to engage in peace talks would be to agree to 'ethnic cleansing,' He says that would be absurd. The Israeli PM said it was about time somebody said this.

Netanyahu was responding to criticism that the continual expansion of settlements is the main hurdle to doing a peace deal with the Palestinians.

"The Palestinian leadership actually demands a Palestinian state with one pre-condition: No Jews. There's a phrase for that: It's called ethnic cleansing. And this demand is outrageous," he said.

“It’s even more outrageous that the world doesn’t find this outrageous. Some otherwise enlightened countries even promote this outrage. Ask yourself this: Would you accept ethnic cleansing in your state? A territory without Jews, without Hispanics, without blacks? Since when is bigotry a foundation for peace?”

“I think what makes peace impossible is intolerance of others," the Israeli prime minister said. "Societies that respect all people are the ones that pursue peace. Societies that demand ethnic cleansing don’t pursue peace. I envision a Middle East where young Arabs and young Jews learn together, work together, live together side by side in peace. Our region needs more tolerance, not less.”

“Ethnic cleansing for peace is absurd. It’s about time somebody said it. I just did,” said Netanyahu.

The U.S. State Department on reviewing the comments described them as "inappropriate and unhelpful."



"We obviously strongly disagree with the characterization that those who oppose settlement activity or view it as an obstacle to peace are somehow calling for ethnic cleansing of Jews from the West Bank. We believe that using that type of terminology is inappropriate and unhelpful," Elizabeth Trudeau, spokesperson for the State Department told reporters in Washington.

In relation to settlements, Trudeau said the policy raises "real questions about Israel's long-term intentions in the West Bank."