http://thenationonlineng.net/buratai-militants-embrace-peace-face-military-action/
130
13
Niger Delta militants got yesterday a stern warning from Chief of Army Staff Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai – embrace peace or face military action.

The army has launched “Operation Crocodile Smile”, to warn militants who terrorise innocent citizens.

Gen. Buratai advised the militants to form a common front, if they are serious about dialogue with the Federal Government.

The army chief spoke at the 2 Brigade of the Nigerian Army in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital, during a stakeholders’ meeting on combating pipeline vandalism and crude oil theft in the Niger Delta.

The meeting was attended by top military personnel, senior officials of the Department of State Services (DSS), representatives of other security agencies and oil companies operating in the Niger Delta.

After the opening ceremony, reporters were excused for a closed-door session, which dragged on till late in the evening. The communique was being expected last night.

Gen. Buratai said: “The issue of Niger Delta is of great concern to all Nigerians and the government as a federation. Our visit today (yesterday) is to see how we can perform our role in support of the government and indeed the Nigerian people. Everybody is yearning for peace. We want to enhance that peace.

“There are several factions of the militants. They need to unite and form a common front, if they are serious. Already, there is an existing peace arrangement ongoing, that is, the amnesty programme that has not been called off. It is still on.

“Which dialogue do they (militants) want again? The President (Muhammadu Buhari) has put a machinery in place. What do they want again? It is a misplaced position of these militants or whatever you call them. They are just terrorising us.

“Dialogue is an issue that can be handled at the political level. We, as the military, are performing our duties and we must make sure that the threat to our national security is removed.

“We are in your territory (Niger Delta, through “Operation Crocodile Smile”) and you are saying we are invading your territory. It does not make sense. We have medical outreach in those territories right now, just to support them and the communities are happy. Whoever is accusing the army of highhandedness is far from telling us the truth. Terrorists want everybody to cry, but we (military) want everybody to smile. That is why you are happy today, because there is relative peace.”

Gen. Buratai denied the allegation that some military personnel were selling arms and ammunition to militants and criminals.

He said: “We are conducting exercise (“Operation Crocodile Smile”) and if the situation warrants clampdown on militants, we will go ahead. For now, we are not clamping down on anybody. If we find any militant with arms and ammunition, we know what to do.”

Prior to granting interview to reporters during a tea break, the Chief of Army Staff, in his address during the opening session of the meeting, stated that the stakeholders were in Port Harcourt to rub minds to proffer solutions to the security challenges and how to ensure peace in the Niger Delta.

He said attacks by militants had drastically reduced the production of crude oil and gas, the mainstay of Nigeria’s economy. This, he said, must not be allowed to continue, especially at this time of recession.

Gen. Buratai noted that the stakeholders were also in the state capital to strategise on how to adequately protect oil and gas facilities and workers in the Niger Delta, particularly with the ongoing operation. He dismissed the militants’ “Operation Crocodile Tears”.

The chief of army staff assured all that oil companies and their workers would operate in a safer Niger Delta.