http://www.thenational.scot/news/shelter-warns-rhetoric-must-be-matched-by-action-to-tackle-shameful-levels-of-homelessness.22016
130
13
Shelter warns rhetoric must be matched by action to tackle 'shameful' levels of homelessness

If you would prefer unlimited access, please support our journalism with a website subscription. Subscribe today for just £3.99 a month.

Will fin breid, barley-bree an paintit room. Whan MacLean meets wi's friens in Springburn. Aa thae roses an geeans will turn tae blume. An a black laud frae yont Nyanga. Dings the fell gallows o the burghers doun.

Black an white ane-til-ither mairriet. Mak the vile barracks o thair maisters bare. Sae come aa ye at hame wi freedom. Never heed whit the houdies croak for Doom. In yer hous aa the bairns o Aidam.

Tak the road an seek ither loanins. Wi thair ill-ploys tae sport an play. Nae mair will our bonnie callants. Merch tae war whan our braggarts crousely craw. Nor wee weans frae pitheid an clachan. Murn the ships sailin doun the Broomielaw. Broken faimilies in launs we've hairriet. Will curse 'Scotlan the Brave' nae mair, nae mair.

Roch the win i the clear day's dawin. Blaws the clouds heilster-gowdie owre the bay. But thair's mair nor a roch win blawin. Thro the Great Glen o the warl the day. It's a thocht that wad gar our rottans. Aa thae rogues that gang gallus fresh an gay.

A HOUSING charity yesterday called on the Scottish Government to match its action to its progressive rhetoric over “shameful” levels of homelessness.

A HOUSING charity yesterday called on the Scottish Government to match its action to its progressive rhetoric over “shameful” levels of homelessness.

According to Shelter Scotland, one household in the country becomes homeless every 20 minutes and the current level of homelessness is “a national badge of shame”.

Leaders accused councils and the Scottish Parliament of “taking their eye off the ball” in efforts to tackle and prevent the problem.

Launching Shelter’s new Far From Fixed campaign, the charity's director Graeme Brown claimed the country was equipped to eradicate homelessness – but politicians had failed to act.

He said: “It is frankly a disgrace that homelessness still exists in Scotland today. We are one of the richest nations in the world, yet nearly 30,000 households became homeless last year and more than 65,000 households approached their local authority for help with housing.

“It’s shameful that each year there are thousands of people sleeping rough on our streets, that there are thousands more hidden homeless people sofa surfing with friends and that tomorrow morning more than 5,000 children in Scotland will wake up in temporary accommodation without a permanent home of their own.

“Shelter Scotland thinks that the time for good rhetoric and resting on our laurels is over. We need to face up to the reality that despite good progress in recent years, we are still failing too many people in our society, particularly the most vulnerable, with the most basic of human rights, the right to shelter and a home.

“It is time for bold action and the Scottish people agree with us. Across Scotland, 75 per cent of people think that homelessness is a problem today and 54 per cent agree that the Scottish Government could do more to tackle homelessness.”

In 1999 the Labour/LibDem coalition at Holyrood aimed to eradicate rough sleeping by 2003. However, the charity Crisis reported a 94 per cent increase in demand for night shelters in Glasgow last winter.

New research by YouGov found three-quarters of Scots agree homelessness is a problem and more than half think the Scottish Government could do more to tackle it.

Shelter’s new campaign calls for safe and affordable homes for all, help to keep or find accommodation and a “strong housing safety net” for those who do lose the roof over the heads, as well as a commitment that “no-one should ever have to sleep rough”.

Speaking in Glasgow, Brown said: “People become homeless through chance, not choice. We still have a long way to go to end homelessness.

“We know that we have the policy levers and powers in Scotland to build on our strong progress to date and make this happen, but do we have the political will?

“If we don’t then we are concerned that other policy priorities such as improving health, wellbeing and educational attainment will ultimately be undone if we cannot ensure that people have a home to live in. It is only by being bold and actually living up to our rhetoric and ambition of being a progressive and socially just nation that we can start to finally fix homelessness in Scotland.”

Responding, Housing Minister Kevin Stewart said the SNP administration was “doing everything we can to make sure everyone has access to a warm and safe place to stay”.

He went on: “We provide funding and work with local authorities to help prevent homelessness and ensure the strong housing rights homeless people have in law are delivered. We are also increasing housing supply, and are committed to delivering at least 50,000 affordable homes backed by over £3 billion investment during the lifetime of this parliament.

“The most recent figures show we are making progress with a decrease in the number of applications and households being assessed as homeless, but we know there is still more to be done. We have made clear our concerns to the UK Government about the potential undermining of this progress, due to its proposed changes to the funding of temporary and some supported accommodation.”