http://www.salon.com/2016/02/03/progressive_jewish_groups_make_new_york_times_parody_issue_to_protest_newspapers_biased_israel_palestine_coverage/
202
20
“Congress to Debate U.S. Aid to Israel,” reads the front page of the latest edition of The New York Times — or, rather, the latest fake edition of the Times.

Activists from progressive Jewish human rights groups created a very convincing-looking fake edition of The New York Times to protest the leading newspaper’s coverage of Israel.

The parody publication is written from a left-wing, anti-racist, anti-Islamophobic perspective that criticizes Israel’s violations of international law and Palestinian human rights, along with what the groups say is the Times’ failure to adequately address these crimes.

Early Tuesday morning, the activists, under the name The New York Times, sent an email out to reporters across the country titled “NYT Announces New Editorial Policy: Rethinking Our Coverage of Israel-Palestine.” The email included a link to an entire website modeled on the Times’ own site, www.NewYorkTimes-IP.com, which the activists created.

Less than 24 hours after the site was made public, on Tuesday evening, it was taken down. It is archived here.

On the “NYT-IP” Twitter account the groups made, activists shared photos of them handing out more than 10,000 copies of a print edition of the paper for free in downtown New York City on Tuesday morning. This Twitter account was also suspended later that evening, but is archived here.

No group immediately took credit for the action on Tuesday, while reports filled the media.

Jewish Voice for Peace — New York and Jews Say No! informed Salon that they had organized the protest. The former is the local chapter of Jewish Voice for Peace, or JVP, an American human rights and social justice organization that challenges the Israeli government’s continued violence against and oppression of the indigenous Palestinian people. Jews Say No! is a New York City-based peace group that, like JVP, protests Israel’s illegal 48-year occupation of the Palestinian territories and periodic heavy bombing of Gaza.

In December, during Hanukkah, both groups organized another campaign — a series of protests across the country condemning Islamophobia, racism, anti-refugee xenophobia and police brutality.

Throughout the past few months, JVP and Jews Say No! meticulously designed the fake four-page New York Times newspaper and website. They assembled more than 20 people and created an editorial team dedicated to creating top-quality, wittily written, fact-checked coverage.

The fake “special edition” issue carries the slogan “All the news we didn’t print,” and blasts the Times for what the activists see as its biased, pro-Israel coverage.

A piece attributed to a fake Times editorial board admits that its “sense of fairness has been absent in our paper’s coverage of ongoing conditions in Israel and Palestine.” It notes that the real Times regularly portrays Palestinians, but not Israelis, as instigators of violence, and uses much harsher language to describe Palestinian acts of violence.

“In addition, we are aware that a disproportionate number of our news stories in the past year and a half have focused on Israeli government statements and positions or the views of Israeli Jewish citizens; only a small fraction have featured Palestinian speakers, whether officials and advocates or residents who experience the effects of Israeli policies in everyday life,” the fictitious editorial states.

The supplement mixes pointed satire with facts. Some of the quotes in it are fake — such as those from “Hilarity Clifton,” a spoof on Hillary Clinton. Other quotes are authentic, however, such as those from right-wing Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who insists “at this time we need to control all of the territory for the foreseeable future,” and “we will forever live by the sword.”

The front page features a large graphic that illustrates how the U.S. gives significantly more military aid to Israel than it does to any other country, at the sum of $3.1 billion per year.

A satirical article depicts New York Sen. Chuck Schumer calling for an end to U.S. military aid to Israel over the allied country’s human rights violations and war crimes in Gaza.

The Corrections section details criticisms of the real Times’ reporting. “It has come to our attention that the vast majority of articles about violence in Israel and the occupied Palestinian territories have failed to include the names of Palestinians killed by Israeli forces,” the section reads.

It then includes a list of the names, ages and locations of the more than 165 Palestinians who have been killed by Israeli occupation forces or settlers since October 2015.

The section also criticizes the Times for running headlines that frequently obfuscate Palestinian victims of Israeli violence through the use of passive and ambiguous language. It suggests that a fictional but realistic-sounding Times article “Deadly clashes near West Bank town of Deheishe” should be renamed “Israeli forces kill 2 Palestinians in Deheishe refugee camp in the Occupied West Bank.”

Donna Nevel, one of the editors of the paper and a member of Jews Say No!, told Salon that they organized the protest because “We felt that it was so important.”

“Our goal in creating this paper was to make visible the need for reporting that addresses, rather than hides, the realities of Israeli apartheid and that is responsible and accurate in its coverage of conditions in Palestine and Israel,” Nevel explained.

She stressed that, in the past number of years in particular — in the wake of Israel’s summer 2014 war on Gaza, in which the close U.S. ally killed more than 2,250 Palestinians, including at least 550 children, according to the U.N.; and carried out war crimes, human rights organizations like Amnesty International say — “it’s increasingly apparent” that U.S. news outlets like the Times are not adequately informing the public just how brutal the Israeli occupation is.