http://nigeriamasterweb.com/Masterweb/masterwebnews-13116-2016-prophecies-nation-false-prophets-and-evil-leaders-part-2
203
20
Wed, 01/13/2016 - 10:07 — newsadmin

MasterwebNews 13/1/16 - 2016 Prophecies: A Nation of False Prophets and Evil Leaders - Part 2

[ Masterweb Reports: Rev. Dr. C. K. Ekeke reports ] - "The prophets prophesy falsely, and the priests rule by their own power; and my people love to have it so" (Jeremiah 5:31)...



Nigerian prophets and their attention-seeking prophecies



When I read some of the 2016 prophecies especially that of Primate Elijah Babatunde Ayodele, Pastor T. B. Joshua, Rev, Fr. Ejike Mbaka and host of others; most of their predictions are very political but not prophetic or apocalyptic with exception of Prophet Wale Olagun­ju, Presiding Bishop of Di­vine Seed of God Chapel Ministries who gave prophet messages that are more prophetic and believable..



For instance, Primate Elijah Babatunde Ayodele of the INRI Evangelical Spiritual Church in Lagos did not see the horrifying times in which Nigeria is in right now. Rather, his prophecies seem to be advising and encouraging APC to fortify themselves for the challenges ahead. He’s aligning with the democratic dictator and APC in power.



Pastor T. B. Joshua of All Nations Church heals all manners of sicknesses yet disease, sickness and death pervade the Nigerian and African societies. He prophesizes about plane crashes and disasters that occur in other nations, but will not prophesy about the atrocities and tragedies that occur daily in his own country. He did not see or predict the killings of Pro-Biafra peaceful protesters and Shia Muslims by the Nigerian Army and the bloody Christmas massacres by Boko haram, but did fabricate a video prediction of massacres of French people in Paris by ISIS.



Rev. Fr. Ejike Mbaka of Adoration Ministries in Enugu, who received a prophetic message from God and publicly asked ex-president Goodluck Jonathan to resign and vacate his office, has not received any vision about the dictator – President Buhari who’s now in power. Rather, he quickly went to Aso Rock, rather than speak and condemn the evil, wickedness and injustices we read and see today in Nigeria – especially the systemic marginalization of SE where he came from, he went to receive bribe from the President and now denies there is no marginalization in SE.



But shame to him, true prophets: Prophet Wale Olagun­ju, Cardinal John Onaiyekan, the Catholic Archbishop of Abuja and other true prophets have condemned the killings of innocent pro-Biafra protesters, Shiite Muslims and continued detention of people unconditionally acquitted by the courts. Rev. Fr. Mbaka do not see any wrongs in that – neither does he see the repressive policies, oppression and marginalization, dilapidated roads and lack of federal infrastructure in SE.



The problem in Nigeria today is that many people entering into Ministry are being ordained priests, pastors, or spiritual leaders through the back door without any calling, commissioning, and preparation. Without a divine call, commissioning and adequate preparation, which includes – training and mentorship, a person cannot be a leader that God uses. Unfortunately, most of those already serving as pastors, priests, bishops, etc., are there mostly for riches, material gain, and fame. Consequently, the messages that are proclaimed and promulgated over the airways and byways are sometimes totally inconsistent with the teaching of the Holy Scriptures. In fact, what we hear nowadays are pragmatic psychological philosophies and metaphysical teachings to attaining success or solving spiritual problems rather than a sound exposition of God’s Word.



Despite the proliferation of churches in Nigeria, religious hypocrisy, ignorance, and illiteracy abound – rituals, divination, astrology, sorcery, witchcraft, magic, and all manners of evil and satanic worship still exist. Most of the parishioners are gullible and put up with unbiblical teachings. Christians are supposed to be the salt and light of the world, but today, they are worse than worldly people - greed, hatred, corruption, idolatry, jealousy and envy run rampant. So therefore what we see in Nigeria today are adulterous religious systems and satanic religious leaders that parade themselves as the moral authorities in our society and yet the nation suffers from all kinds of satanic violence, evil, and wickedness.



Nigeria’s religious leaders have woefully failed in their divine duties and mandate to rebuke sin and wickedness in high places. How can any true man or woman of God live comfortably in a nation in crisis, where Boko-Haram Jihadists have the audacity to kill innocent citizens in places of worship and then our political and religious leaders don’t have the courage to condemn these satanic and senseless killings? How could any pastor or true prophet of God live in a country with endemic government corruption, looting and embezzlement of public funds and would not speak out; where political leaders are ruling without vision and taking the nation from hope to hopelessness and from strength to weakness. How can our so-called prophets live in a nation where one man has become a democratic-dictator and god; and everyone is afraid of him including the learned men and women of the Bar, intellectuals and religious leaders.



Nigerian religious leaders compromise their calling when they don’t rebuke sin, evil, wickedness and injustice. And their lukewarm attitude is so evident and reflective in our culture, attitudes, mannerism and ways of life, which are mostly pompous of voodoo, juju, witchcraft, sorcery, spirits, mediums and all manners of demonic powers. Studies show that more than 70% of Nigerian Christians attend church services every Sunday and sit under so-called men of God and miracle workers and yet rituals, divination, astrology, sorcery, witchcraft, magic, and all manners of evil and satanic worship remain rampant in Nigeria. Greed, hatred, corruption, idolatry, jealousy and envy continue to flourish in the society. The Word of God is His presence and where there is genuine presence of God, evil, unrighteousness and ungodliness cannot be in abundance as it is in our society today. What I am observing in this generation is moral bankruptcy, biblical ignorance and satanic spiritual capitalism.





Discern Character. Do they have diligent prayer lives and do they show a sincere and pure devotion to God. Do they manifest the fruit of the Spirit such as love, kindness, do they love righteousness, hate wickedness and cry out against sin and wickedness.

Discern Motives. Do they honor Christ, lead the ministry and church in holiness and sanctifications, save the lost, proclaim and defend the gospel of Christ.

Discern their Teachings. This is a key issue. Do they teach, believe and submit to the un-adulterated Word of God?

Discern Integrity. Do they handle Lord's money and ministry finances with integrity and responsibility? Do they seek to promote God's work in ways that are consistent with fiscal laws of their country?

False prophets have been around since the beginning of redemptive history (Deuteronomy 13:1-5), and they always find ways to get their human words out to the society at large. Jesus warned, Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravenous wolves (Matthew 7:15). Saint Jude, in his brief letter to believers, warned against false prophets and told us how to respond to them by keeping ourselves in the love of God (Jude 21).Therefore, I have every right to question the prophetic utterances of Primate Ayodele and others. I read that most of his prophecies in the past have become history. The questions I asked therefore, how do we know that he actually prophesied those things? If those prophecies were from God, why are we in such a bad shape we are now? When the children of Israel rejected Prophet Samuel and demanded for a king like other nations. God told Samuel to anoint King David from the house of Jesse but the people wanted King Saul because he was tall, handsome and a warrior. Human beings have always chosen whom to lead them by these outward appearances rather than inward qualities. Even in our modern times, money and cultic associations have been become necessary requirements to be a leader rather character and good virtues.In the teachings and writings of Jesus, Apostle Paul, Peter, John and even Saint Jude, we are also encouraged to confront false prophets and their followers, doing so with a special dependence on the Lord and being careful not to get contaminated by their false teachings. The most dangerous characteristics of false prophets are that they claim to be from God and to speak for Him. False prophets always appear to be pleasant and positive. They like to be with Christians and they know how to talk and act like believers - Pharisees and Sadducees for example. False prophets usually exude sincerity and thereby more easily deceive others. False prophets serve mostly their own interest rather than the ministry and mission. False prophets are not content with basic needs of life and ministry, but make excessive appeal for many. False prophets do not practice what they teach. They teach one thing and practice another. False prophets ignore and have problems with fundamental and controversial biblical truth. Their teachings are heretical.The Didache, one of the earliest Christian writings after the New Testament, gives several guidelines for discerning false prophets.

False teachers and prophets have been around since the history of mankind. They are in our churches and society at large and they are hard to detect without discernment unless God decides to expose them for who they are. However, the Bible warns us to have a discerning spirit and learn how to respond to them. God's plan is too precious and His purposes too powerful to be wasted because of ignorance.



The church is the most important institution in our universe apart from the family. The church is the custodian of the divine truth of God’s Word. The church was entrusted with the divine truth, where certain men and women are called and ordained not by religious organizations but by God to proclaim and teach these truths to the people. Christianity must restore its credibility and purpose. Church leaders must restore their confidence, trust and credibility, otherwise one day they will appear before the judgment seat of Christ and account for what they have done with the souls entrusted in their care. There is a Nigerian proverb that says, "All we do on earth, we will account for kneeling in heaven."



Let those who have ears, hear the Word of the Living God and let our so-called men of God speak truth to power with courage, wisdom and strength of the Lord.



--Part 2: Concluded.



C. K. Ekeke, PhD., M.Div. ., is a theologian, author, and consultant and leadership lecturer. He is the president of Leadership Wisdom Institute.



*Photo Caption - As seen

