http://www.postzambia.com/news.php?id=19846
203
20
CHIEF Mukuni has dismissed the Patriotic Front claims of ‘ethnic cleansing’ in Southern Province and has offered to cover travel expenses of chiefs around the country who want to travel to the area to verify the stories being published by government controlled media outlets.

And chief Mukuni says he is stunned that Edgar Lungu has resisted to hand-over power to the Speaker of the National Assembly as prescribed by the Constitution after his election was challenged in the courts.

Chief Mukuni of the Toka-Leya people of Kazungula district said at a media briefing at Taj Pamodzi Hotel yesterday rubbished public media reports alleging that people of Southern Province were turning against non-Tongas.

“In every chiefdom around Zambia, you’ll find almost all the 73 tribes co-existing; I’m yet to see one chiefdom, be it in Northern, Southern, Western, Eastern or wherever [where there are only people of the same tribe]. So, the tribal divide is not there and in all these chiefdoms, we even make people from different parts of the country as headmen. So, to hear today that the people of Southern Province are turning against people from other provinces is a big lie, which lie I want to put to rest by inviting chiefs from other provinces so that we take them on a spot-check to the people who are said to be victimised on tribal lines,” chief Mukuni explained.

He said chiefs believed that it was politicians who seem to gain from talk on tribal divide.

“The chiefs themselves are united throughout Zambia and I was talking to paramount Chitimukulu to ask him not to believe that story which is being churned out by the public media that people are being beaten in Namwala. I have invited them and the invitation will be at my cost, I’ll host them,” chief Mukuni said.

He added that politicians had failed to foster national integration.

“The politicians are not talking to each other [but] the chiefs are talking to each other across tribal divide. I may call upon the chiefs of this country to probably come together and give direction to the nation because it appears to me that even the Church, which should have been very neutral, seem to be taking sides. You’ll find that this Church which believes in this political cause will misinterpret the Bible to fit their side,” chief Mukuni said.

And chief Hamusonde stressed that Southern Province had embraced all Zambian tribes.

“Let me be specific; in my area, Bweengwa, it’s a fishing area where you’ll find Bembas, ‘Nyanjas’, Lozis and all the other tribes. Nobody has ever been antagonised...we even have village headmen who are not Tongas in my chiefdom! The public media is reporting that Bembas are not needed there; who said so? That’s a taboo and rubbish! If you’re greedy for political gain, be greedy but don’t accuse the people of Southern Province, it’s bad,” said chief Hamusonde.

Meanwhile, chief Mukuni said he did not understand president Lungu’s continued stay as President after the presidential petition had been filed in the constitutional court by UPND president Hakainde Hichilema and his running Geoffrey Bwalya Mwamba.

“I want to believe that the Constitution says if there is a dispute after an election or the losers have challenged [the victory in court], the way to go is that the president-elect hands over power to the Speaker of the National Assembly. [But] what is happening now? I don’t understand; I’m perplexed equally because I expected our president-elect to actually handover so that none of them has got undue influence over what happens in case of another election or a re-run,” said chief Mukuni.

“The problem that His Excellency might be having is that he could be listening to a lot of vested interest voices to say ‘don’t [handover power] because we might suffer’. But to me, he should take advice from his Attorney General who, I think, is in that position to give him good advice. He shouldn’t get advice from the PF but the Attorney General.”