http://www.business-standard.com/article/pti-stories/pakistan-can-and-must-dismantle-all-terror-networks-obama-116012400463_1.html
203
20
Pakistan 'can and must' dismantle all terror networks: Obama

Terming the Pathankot terror strike as "another example of the inexcusable terrorism That India has endured for too long", US President Barack Obama today demanded of Pakistan that it "delegitimise, disrupt and dismantle" terrorist networks that operate from its territory. In a tough message, Obama said that Pakistan "can and must" take more effective action against terrorist groups based there, emphasising that "there must be zero tolerance for safe havens and terrorists must be brought to justice." "Pakistan has an opportunity to show that it is serious about delegitimising, disrupting and dismantling terror networks", Obama told PTI in an interview here during which he answered a wide range of questions covering Indo-US ties, terrorism and outcome of the Paris climate change summit. Obama gave credit to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for reaching out to his Pakistani counterpart Nawaz Sharif after the Pathankot attack and said, "both leaders are advancing a dialogue on how to ...

Terming the Pathankot terror strike as "another example of the inexcusable



That



has endured for too long", US President today demanded of that it "delegitimise, disrupt and dismantle" terrorist networks that operate from its territory.



In a tough message, Obama said that "can and must" take more effective action against terrorist groups based there, emphasising that "there must be zero tolerance for safe havens and terrorists must be brought to justice."



" has an opportunity to show that it is serious about delegitimising, disrupting and dismantling terror networks", Obama told PTI in an interview here during which he answered a wide range of questions covering Indo-US ties, and outcome of the Paris climate change summit.



Obama gave credit to Prime Minister Modi for reaching out to his Pakistani counterpart after the Pathankot attack and said, "both leaders are advancing a dialogue on how to confront violent extremism and across the region."



Voicing his belief that the Indo-US relationship can be one of the defining partnerships of the century, Obama said that Modi shared his enthusiasm for a strong partnership and "we have developed a friendship and close working relationship, including our conversations on the new secure lines between our offices".



Asked if the relationship has achieved its full potential, the President replied, "Absolutely not."



On the Pathankot attack, Obama said, "We join in condemning the attack, saluting the Indians who fought to prevent more loss of life and extending our condolences to the victims and their families.



"Tragedies like this also underscore why the US and continue to be such close partners in fighting terrorism."



Obama was of the view that Sharif recognised that insecurity in is a threat to its own stability and that of the region. After the December, 2014 school massacre in Peshawar he had vowed to target all militants, regardless of their agenda or affiliation.



"That is the right policy. Since then, we have seen take action against several specific groups. We have also seen continued inside such as the recent attack on the university in north west Pakistan."



The President said that he still believed that " can and must" take more effective action against terrorist groups that operate from its territory.



"In the region and around the world, there must be zero tolerance for safe havens and terrorists must be brought to justice," he asserted in this third interview to PTI.

Referring to bilateral ties with India, Obama said his



visit last year reflected how the ties between the two countries have been transformed.



"Since I took office, I have worked to deepen our cooperation with across the board and I continue to believe that the relationship between and the United States can be one of the defining partnerships of this century.



"However, common values--two democracies, two innovative economies, two diverse societies--make us natural partners. We are linked by the ties of family--millions of Indian Americans," the US President said.



He said his hope was that his visit could help spark a new era of cooperation between the two countries and "I believe it did".



"The past 12 months have been a year of progress across the three priorities that I identified in my speech to the Indian people at Siri Fort.



"We're deepening our partnerships to promote the development that lifts up our people, including rural Indians- helping farmers, boost their yields and working expanding access to electricity and clean water," Obama said.



He said both the countries continue to expand the economic partnerships that help reduce poverty and create opportunity, pushing bilateral trade to a record levels, expanding hi-tech collaborations and increasing students exchanges, including for girls and women who deserve the same education and opportunities and boys and men.



Obama said the two countries were doing even more as global partners including more military exercises, greater cooperation in the Asia Pacific and Indian Ocean region and working together to confront climate change.



"I continue to believe that America can be India's best partner. So I hope future generations can look back at this moment and see that this was the time when the world's largest democracy became true global partners.



"In my final year as President, continuing to deepen our ties will continue to be one of my foreign policy priorities," Obama said.

Press Trust of India