http://www.irishsun.com/index.php/sid/246846749
138
13
Three car bombings within 24 hours target and kill police officers in Turkey

Irish Sun Friday 19th August, 2016

• Blasts said to have targeted and killed police officers

• 11 people killed and 226 others wounded

• Turkish military personnel seek asylum in Greece

ANKARA, Turkey - About 11 people have been killed and more than 226 people wounded in three separate car bomb blasts that ripped through Turkey on Thursday.

The first attack was on a police station in the eastern province of Van, Turkey. The attack took place late Wednesday and killed a police officer as well as two civilians. Officials reported that dozens of other people, including 20 policemen, were injured.

Authorities have blamed the attack on the Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) which is responsible for launching a campaign of bomb attacks on the police. PKK Commander, Cemil Bayik, had threatened to increase these attacks on the police in Turkey, last week.

The second attack took place just a few hours later when a car blast hit the police headquarters in the East Turkish City of Elazig. The attack was responsible for killing three police officers and wounding over a 100 people.

Mahmut Varol, who is the deputy mayor for Elazig said that the explosion occurred on the grounds of the police headquarters which further caused cars parked nearby to catch fire.

Videos circulated showed smoke rising from the area while cars were overturned. Windows of the four-storeyed building were blown out.

The third car bomb occurred later in the day, killing three soldiers. The blast had targeted a military vehicle that was on its way back in the Kurdish province of Bitlis.

"We have seen once more... that the PKK is a bloody organization and does not hesitate to kill the people it says it is fighting for. The PKK acts according to the demands of global powers, not... the people in the region,” commented Defence Minister Fikri Isik.

Turkish Prime Minister Binali Yildirim canceled his day's meetings and work to quickly travel to Elazig with Isik and General Hulusi Akar who is the head of the armed forces.

Meanwhile, Greece's foreign ministry has said that it has received an official extradition request from Turkey. The request asks to return eight Turkish military personnel who escaped to North Greece via a helicopter after an abortive coup in Turkey. The ministry has said that it received the request and has successfully sent it to The Justice Ministry of Greece.

The eight personnel that include six helicopter pilots and two engineers have denied any sort of involvement in Turkey's July 15 attempted coup.

All eight of them flew to the Greek city of Alexandroupolis in the north the very next morning. The military personnel then applied for asylum by saying that they feared not being given a fair trial back in Turkey.

They claimed that their lives would be in danger back in their home country. They have, also, each received suspended sentences for illegally entering the country and will appear for their asylum interviews on Friday.

The PKK has been held responsible for carrying out dozens of attacks on the police and military posts in the largely Kurdish area in the southeast since 2015.

However, Elazig, had been spared the violence until now. Elazig is a conservative province which votes for the ruling A K Party. The PKK wishes for a greater autonomy for Turkey's 15 million Kurds. Over 40,000 people have been killed in violence since the making of PKK in 1984.