http://www.westernjournalism.com/watch-what-american-muslims-say-when-they-hear-the-word-israel/
203
20
Advertisement - story continues below

CBS recently broadcasted a video featuring Frank Luntz, the Republican pollster, who engaged with “a focus group of American Muslims in New York” after the San Bernadino shootings.

The network aired only a small part of the discussion and chose not to broadcast the part of the show that dealt with Israel.

The “focus group of American Muslims” as CBS labeled the participants in the discussion, consisted of some well-known pro-Palestinian activists such as Linda Sarsour, the woman with the white hijab in the video.

Advertisement - story continues below

Sarsour had defended lethal Palestinian rock-throwing attacks against Israelis and the Muslim organization she heads just received a $500,000 reward from the City of New York.

Sarsour has been the director of the Arab-American Association of New York since 2005 and her group was one of 14 organizations selected by “the Mayor’s Fund to Advance New York to receive $10 million over the course of the next five years so as to integrate mental health services into community programs,” INN reported.

Luntz asked the participants in the discussion what first comes to mind when they hear the word “Israel.” The responses varied from “Apartheid” and “racist” to “friend” and “Holy Land.”

Advertisement - story continues below

Sarsour dominated a significant part of the discussion and refused to recognize Israel as a Jewish state. Other women agreed and one even said that she didn’t recognize Israel’s right to exist.

Luntz then asked if the Muslims would recognize Israel’s right to exist within “the ’67 borders”

His question showed his ignorance of the history of the Palestinian-Israeli conflict because there is no such thing as the “67 borders.”

Luntz was talking about the 1948 armistice lines that marked the end of the war. Arab armies and their Palestinian Arab allies launched against the Jews after the General Assembly of The United Nations voted in favor of Resolution 181 that called for the partition of the British-ruled Palestinian Mandate.

Advertisement - story continues below

His question led to a debate on the historical context of the conflict. One of the participants claimed that the conflict between Jews and Muslim Arabs is a new issue because actually “Muslim and Jews have always lived together peacefully.”

Others agreed and even claimed that the Muslims in Palestine had been marrying each other and living peacefully together “for centuries” or even “thousands of years” (Islam was founded in the seventh century).

The truth, however, is that Muslims have been oppressing Jews ever since Muhammad murdered the Qurayza, a Jewish tribe living in what is today Saudi Arabia.

In 1834, Palestinian Muslims repeated this massacre when they murdered the Jewish population of Safed, a city considered holy to Jews that is located in Galilee. The pogrom lasted for one month and more than 500 Jews lost their lives while hundred mores were wounded and maimed.

The debate then focused on Jewish history and the Muslims claimed that the Holocaust had led the Europeans to “plop” the remaining Jews in Palestine and that the Jewish population didn’t want to go to “Palestine” at all, but instead had asked for a plot of land in Europe to establish a Jewish homeland.

In fact, Jews have been living in Israel for thousands of years even when the majority of the people of Israel were in exile. Furthermore, the Zionist movement already existed in the 18th century when thousands of Jews immigrated to the land of Israel under the influence of messianism.

The next lie debated was that Israel is an Apartheid state where black Jews are sterilized. “Sterilized?” Luntz asked expressing his disbelieve. “Are you sure?” he said but the Muslim woman was convinced that this is the truth and insisted that Israel is a racist state.

Perhaps she should read this recent blog post at the Times of Israel by someone who witnessed firsthand “Israel’s dismal failure” when it comes to Apartheid.