http://www.irishnews.com/opinion/letterstotheeditor/2016/03/01/news/israel-cares-little-for-international-opinion-or-its-laws-434677/
203
20
Many astute commentators have drawn comparisons between the behaviour of Israel and that of the Nazi regime. There is much truth in such an analogy.

During the Nazi reign of terror, Jewish citizens were increasingly discriminated against and persecuted. They were forced to wear yellow stars and segregation from other Germans was enforced thereby further dehumanising the Jewish people.

Ghettos were created, or enlarged, to accommodate a forced influx of Jews to Poland.

In these ghettos the people were treated abysmally.

In what is a sick irony, the Palestinian people today suffer from the same approach by Israel. They have fewer rights than Zionist citizens, are segregated during their movements within their country. They are routinely strip-searched in public, humiliated by the Israeli military and attacked by Israeli settlers. Palestinian schools are routinely forced to close. Their infrastructure is being systematically targeted to drive them from their homes.

Gaza is now a ghetto. It is entirely cut off from the outside world. Limited supplies are permitted through at the discretion of Israel. Its buildings have been destroyed by Israeli missiles and shells, its people robbed of hope. Many residents live in dire poverty.

The Nazi’s initiated a policy of Lebensraum, designed to provide space for the expansion of Germany. It was this internationally condemned policy that ignited the Second World War. Israel has its own policy of Lebensraum. Setting aside, for now, the fact that the entire Israeli state is an imposition upon the true nation of Palestine, Israel has decided to annex all of East Jerusalem, the entire West Bank and the Golan heights. Illegal Israeli settlers now number more than 800,000. Each settlement is defined as illegal under international law. Such settlements are in contravention of the Fourth Geneva Convention and fly in the face of numerous determinations by the UN, including Security Resolution 446.

Such continuous Israeli expansion into the Palestinian Occupied Territories is encouraged by a sectarian, colonial Israeli government hell-bent upon the ethnic cleansing of the native population. Israel cares little for international opinion or laws. Palestinian citizens, desperate to defend their homes, their families, their lives, are trying to fight back. When a Palestinian man, woman or teenager attempts to attack a heavily armed Israeli soldier or settler paramilitary, with little more than a knife, the media inexplicably portrays the Palestinian as the villain.

If someone stole your land, thereby taking away your livelihood, illegally detained (children as young as five) and often murdered your friends, neighbours or family, and all while western governments and media remained silent, what would you do?

ANTAN O DALA AN RI

Newry, Co Down

Truth about Orange hall meeting needs telling

According to The Irish News (February 16) the Orange Order facilitated a meeting between the Oaklee Housing Association and three DUP elected representatives at Clifton Street Orange Hall in February 2014.

The three politicians in question included two very senior members of the party. The then minister of social development Nelson McCausland was at the meeting as was the Westminster MP for North Belfast Nigel Dodds. Brian Kingston a DUP councillor was also present.

The purpose of the meeting was to discuss a planning application the Oaklee housing body had previously submitted to the Department of Social Development to build four houses and six apartments in Carrick Hill at Stanhope Street and near the junction of Clifton Street. At that particular meeting the DUP delegation asked Oaklee to attend a further meeting to take place a few days later at the same venue.

Shortly after the second meeting Oaklee withdrew their planning application, with the result that the badly needed houses were not built. The Oaklee Housing Association never gave an explanation as to why they withdrew their application, or more precisely what did the DUP delegation say to them to make them change their mind.

In fact both parties refused to divulge what exactly was discussed at the meetings, and say minutes were not taken at the meetings. A number of questions need to be asked regarding the affair.

Why did Oaklee agree to meet the DUP delegation, which included the minister of social development whose department was in charge of housing in an Orange hall and not in a DSD office? As well as being a politician Nelson McCausland is also a prominent member of the Orange Order as is Nigel Dodds and Brian Kingston.

What exactly is the Orange Order’s interest in this matter?

It all harks back to a time when the unionist government of the six-county state met in Orange Halls to scheme up ways to make life hard for the nationalist community.

S MASKEY

Belfast BT15

Sinn Féin has found worthy vote-catching cause

Where does double standards begin and end?

The answer is most apparent in the form of Gerry Adams and Sinn Féin.

Gerry has found a worthy vote-catching cause in Dublin’s Special Criminal Courts which he is going to abolish if and when he gets power.

This is amazing considering that Gerry and his cronies don’t appear to notice the goings on in their own doorstep where their former comrades and many others get interned by remand in excess of two years, before being given hefty bail and subjected to the most draconian laws in the civilised world, namely the demarcation zones within their own country, outside which they daren’t set foot. This is intended to demoralise while they wait endlessly to be called for trial in a special Diplock Court where the odds are rigged against them. None is this is noticed by anyone within SF who have still the audacity to call themselves republican.

LAURENCE O'NEILL

Martinstown, Co Antrim

Insulted by ‘massacre village’ slur

As a proud Darkley resident I was shocked, angry and disappointed when The Irish News printed an article terming our village as ‘Massacre Village’ (February 11).

I think it is only fair through the letters column that I am given the opportunity to clarify this slur. This “massacre” occurred almost two miles from our village and was quite correctly condemned by all residents at the time. These terms which the media has used with utter disregard and little knowledge, ‘Massacre Village’ and ‘Darkley shootings’ have been used many times in the past by those with their own agenda.

I was also concerned when Ian Bothwell of Crossfire Trust said: “In our past we found people reluctant to come to Darkley, they are keen to come in daylight but wanting to leave before dark, it has a name and an image.”

I am a born and bred Darkley man and I have never felt threatened nor in danger at any time day or night in the village.

AODHAN HUGHES

Darkley, Co Armagh

DUP view of EU spot on

The DUP have captured the view of many in the farming community in stating they want to leave the EU. As previous letters have stated farming is on its knees but rather than continuing on a failed path within the EU we must leave to forge our own future with the interests of our own people first rather than continue to subsidise smaller farmers in foreign lands.

Whether you favour a United Ireland or a United Kingdom we have to be free to control of our own destiny. Or put it this way, could it really be any worse than it is now?

Vote Leave.

B WEIR

Rathfriland, Co Down