https://article.wn.com/view/2016/08/18/14_Killed_220_Wounded_In_Attacks_On_Turkish_Police_Military_/
138
13
Kurdish rebels have been blamed for a string of bombings targeting Turkey’s security forces, with officials upping the number of dead to 14 and wounding more than 220 others, officials told The Associated Press Thursday.

Two of the attacks were car bombings that hit police stations in eastern Turkey, while a third — a roadside blast — targeted a military vehicle carrying soldiers in the southeast of the country.

Authorities are blaming the assaults on the Kurdistan Workers’ Party, or PKK, which has launched a series of car bombings targeting police stations or roadside bomb attacks against security force vehicles. Last week, PKK commander Cemil Bayik threatened increased attacks against police in Turkish cities, the report said.

The attacks occurred as Turkey is clamping down on suspected followers of a movement led by U.S.-based Muslim cleric Fethullah Gulen, whom the government accuses of orchestrating a failed military coup July 15, killing 270.

The first car bombing hit a police station in the eastern province of Van late Wednesday, killing a police officer and two civilians. At least 73 other people — 53 civilians and 20 police officers — were wounded, officials said.

Another car bombing hit police headquarters in the eastern Turkish city of Elazig early Thursday, killing at least five people, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said. Officials said earlier 146 people were wounded and 14 of them were in serious condition, the report said.

Meanwhile, in the southeastern province of Bitlis, five soldiers were killed after rebels detonated a roadside improvised explosive device as an armored military vehicle was passing by, officials said. Five other soldiers were wounded in the attack. A government-paid village guard, helping the security forces battle the PKK was also killed in a clash with rebels in the province, the state-run Anadolu Agency reported.





Prime Minister Binali Yildirim traveled to Elazig to visit the site of the bombing as well as those wounded in the attack.

He told reporters there both the PKK and the Gulen movement were directed by the same "intelligence" intent on causing Turkey harm, without elaborating.

"The (Gulen movement) has lost its assertiveness and has handed over the duty to the (PKK)," Yildirim said. "The intelligence that directs them is the same. When one's duty ends, the other takes up the duty."

Yildirim vowed to fight the PKK until it is "eliminated."

"No terror organization will force this nation to cow in submission," Yildirim said.

– WN.com, Jack Durschlag