http://ekurd.net/church-bells-bartella-2016-10-22
201
20
BARTELLA, Iraq,— The din of bullets, mortars and bombs in the northern Iraqi town of Bartella was replaced momentarily on Friday by a sound not heard there for more than two years: the peal of church bells.

A cautious calm returned to this historic Christian area following its recapture from Islamic State a day earlier as Iraqi forces push west towards Mosul, the jihadists’ last major stronghold in the country.

Bartella, once home to thousands of Assyrian Christians, emptied in August 2014 when Islamic State seized control as part of a lightning blitz across large swathes of Iraq and neighboring Syria.

Nearby Qaraqosh, Iraq’s largest Christian town, remains under the control of militants, according to a commander in the Kurdish peshmerga, which holds nearby ground. Clouds of smoke were seen billowing from that direction this week, though the source was unclear.

Islamic State, which has targeted the adherents and religious sites of minority communities in both countries, issued an ultimatum to Christians: pay a tax, convert to Islam, or die by the sword. Most, including all of Bartella’s residents, fled towards the autonomous Kurdistan region.

Baghdad’s counter-terrorism service (CTS) said it had retaken full control of Bartella on Thursday as part of a major battle announced this week to retake the jihadist group’s last major Iraqi stronghold of Mosul.

However, elite forces returning from missions inside the town on Friday said they had encountered pockets of resistance and IS fighters were using tunnels to fight back.

“We’ll allow civilians to enter and see their houses after securing the town entirely,” CTS General Maan al-Saadi said, as columns of black smoke billowed from the town.

“Bartella is now safe and secured. It is under our complete control,” Maan Saadi.

He told reporters during a brief visit to Saint Matthew’s Syriac Orthodox Church that Islamic State fighters, who pinned down CTS forces earlier in the day with sniper fire, had been completely eliminated.

More than 80 jihadists had been killed in the battle, he added, with a few likely fleeing deeper into IS-held territory.

The 25-year-old, who has fought for the peshmerga for nine years, this week managed to transfer to the Bartella front in the hope of seeing his home again after fleeing it with his wife and three children in mid-2014.

“Today, I will finally be able to see my home, God willing,” he said, after fleeing in the middle of a hot summer’s night two years ago after jihadists entered Bartella.

“I have no idea what state I’m going to find it in,” he added of his house in the town that was predominantly Christian before IS swept in.

The sound of explosions and bursts of gunfire resounded on the town’s outskirts on Friday.

Dressed in a black shirt and grey jacket, the town’s mayor — who also fled Bartella with his wife and 14 children in 2014, leaving everything behind — tried to assess the damage from afar.

“From what we have managed to gather, they have destroyed public buildings and infrastructure,” Ali Mohammed Fathi said, and urged the international community to help rebuild.

Hassan Adnan Hassan, another Kurdish fighter, said he wanted to enter the town to check on his cousin’s house.

“He asked me to come and see it, to check if it had been blown up,” the 20-year-old said, wearing a khaki helmet and a Kurdistan flag on his right sleeve.

Hassan had fled his own home in the nearby town of Qaraqosh, which was once Iraq’s largest Christian town.

According to local official Nissan Karroumi, around 60,000 people of all confessions lived in both Qaraqosh and Bartella before the jihadists overran the area and prompted residents to flee.

“I will take part in all battles, defending Kurdistan until my last breath,” said Karroumi, who has been fighting with the peshmerga for five years.

Naqib said he was fighting for his children, whom he had seen on Thursday after receiving long awaited leave from fighting, he said.

“We came to fight for our land, our belongings and our honour,” he added.

CHURCH TO TRAINING CAMP

Islamic State appears to have removed crosses from atop the steeple and bell tower of Saint Matthew’s church and defaced the statue of a religious figure.

The stone sanctuary is in disarray: the floor is covered in filth, wooden pews are toppled and hymnals are strewn about.

In an adjoining cemetery, the jihadists had set up a rocket pointing east towards the Iraqi forces previous frontline position.

An adjacent administration building was also partially damaged, its windows broken, offices turned upside down and some rooms burned out.

Islamic State fighters had scrawled their black jihadist flag on one wall, which a CTS soldier on Friday tried to scratch off with a rock.

On the floor laid a handful of Christian prayer beads.

In another room, a dry erase board showed a regimen for Islamic State fighters that included physical training and lessons in Islamic teaching, weapons handling and military tactics.

Another sign listed the physical weak points of the human body, starting with the eyes and nose.

“This ancient church which was desecrated by the terrorists has today been liberated,” said Lieutenant General Talib Shaghati, who heads the Joint Operations Command waging Iraq’s war against Islamic State.

Copyright ©, respective author or news agency, Reuters | AFP | Ekurd.net

Comments

Comments