http://voiceofvienna.org/2016/10/22/kashmir-the-uri-massacre-the-blame-game-continues/
201
20
Kashmir: The Uri Massacre – The Blame Game Continues

| By

By Jamal Hussain

The Uri attack that killed seventeen Indian soldiers injuring another thirty in the Indian Held Kashmir on September 18, 2016 has rekindled the blame game between India and Pakistan that has been ongoing since the two nations gained independence in August 1947 and refuses to die down. There is a sense of Déjà vu in the current spat between the two antagonistic and the Uri incident supports the famous quote Mark Twain had allegedly uttered: “History does not repeat itself; but it often rhymes.”

In December 2001, the Indian parliament had come under attack by a group of armed infiltrators from Pakistan, allegedly belonging to Lashkar e Taiba and Jaish e Mohammad (JeM). Pakistan was squarely blamed for the attack and the BJP government under Vajpayee mobilised the Indian armed forces and the military of the two nuclear powers were eye ball to eye ball on the border for nearly eight months. Sense eventually prevailed where the nuclear dynamics, conventional forces balance and pressure from the western world eventually forced India to back off. When further details of the parliamentary raid, many by Indian investigative journalists, came to light it revealed major loopholes in the Indian narrative. Subsequent investigations failed to establish any direct link of the JeM attackers with the state of Pakistan.

The Mumbai massacre in 2008 once again raised the spectre of another military showdown between India and Pakistan. The Congress government in India on this occasion did not react militarily but all political, moral and diplomatic measures were unleashed to try and place Pakistan in the doghouse. While the identity of the raiders was established as Pakistanis, the state itself was absolved of any linkages with the terrorists. Further probes, some by the Indian investigators again revealed major dichotomies in the Indian version— dichotomies that laid bare the falsehoods in the Indian version of events. Pakistan’s stance was and still remains that these renegade factions who have since been blacklisted have carried out far more heinous attacks on the Pakistani soil and its citizens than in India. The two should cooperate to tackle the menace together. India continues to dismiss the Pakistani offer as a subterfuge.

India eventually identified a Pakistani Hafiz Saeed, the current Amir of Jamaat ud Dawah as the mastermind behind the Mumbai carnage. Hafiz Saeed was duly apprehended and put on trial in Pakistan. The charges against Hafiz Saeed were primarily based on the testimony of the lone survivor of the Mumbai attackers Ajmal Kasab, who had been incarcerated, interrogated, tried and eventually hanged on November 21, 2012. During the trial of Hafiz Saeed his defence team demanded permission to cross examine the team that had recorded the statement of Ajmal Kasab, which was their legal right, and they did visit India for the purpose. Ajmal Kasab had already been interred six feet underground by then but the group which had recorded his statement was available. The defence team were denied access to them. Based on that legal lacuna Hafiz Saeed was acquitted that raised a major maelstrom in India. Hafiz Saeed is presently under protective custody and will be tried again provided India submits evidences that can stand up in the court of law.

A similar scenario was witnessed in the attack on the Indian Pathankot Air Base on March 29, 2016 by Jaish e Mohammad members. Again fingers were directly pointed at Pakistan even before the smoke had cleared. The Indian reaction on this occasion was relatively muted and Pakistan too displayed a better understanding of the Indian concerns. A Pakistani Joint Investigation Team (JIT) was constituted for the purpose and India graciously permitted it to visit the crime site. True to form, the JIT was only provided limited access and what they witnessed raised more questions about the official Indian version. The JIT on its return submitted its report where it maintained that Pakistan was not held responsible. This was further collaborated by Sharad Kumar, the director general of National Investigation Agency (NIA), in an interview to News18 TV channel where he had categorically stated: “No evidence to show that Pakistan government or Pakistani government agency was helping Jaish e Mohammed or Masood Azhar or his aides carry out Pathankot attack.”

The three incidences quoted above have a commonality that cannot be dismissed as merely coincidental. The Indian propensity is to blame Pakistan straightaway even before a formal investigation is underway. Major contradictions in its official versions abound, many which gives rise to conspiracy theories that some of these incidents were stage managed by India in an effort to malign Pakistan. While India might be given the benefit of doubt for being complicit, their sheer incompetence in handling terror attacks is obvious. The current Uri incident should be examined with the background of similar events in the past.

The current uprising in the Kashmir Valley has its basis on the killing of Burhanuddin Wani, the young Kashmiri youth who had taken up arms against the Indian forces there. The turmoil is not abating and the Indian military measures to crush it has exacerbated the situation beyond control. While India was able to get away with similar human rights abuses in the Valley in the 1989 uprising, the Social Media phenomenon has made it almost impossible to hide the atrocities currently being committed. India is coming under increasing pressure to mend their ways. If the Uri massacre can be successfully linked to the Islamist Jihadis, the Islamophobia that has swept the western powers would very likely provide it the carte blanche to decimate the Kashmiris by any means, even a genocide. The attempt to portray the Kashmiri rebellion against the Indian rule as a Jihadi movement instead of a nationalistic one is very obvious.

Kashmir is a disputed territory and the Indian claim on Azad Kashmir that is not under their control has serious repercussions in the region. The possibility of odd Azad Kashmiri citizens who had gone across the border to join their rebellious Kashmiri brethren cannot be ruled out. Pakistan, on the other hand, has already declared war on all non-state actors bearing arms and the distinction between good and bad Taliban or Jihadis has been effectively discarded. Moreover, India has erected a type A fence all along the Line of Control (LOC) along with the state of the art laser sensors and heavy continuous patrolling with trained dogs. This has made it virtually impossible for the Jihadists to infiltrate across the LOC with or without the support of Pakistan.

Uri is a part of Jammu which has a significant Hindu majority which strongly opposes the freedom struggle in the Valley. The attack occurred in a well-guarded position of 10 Dogra battalion and not the HQ of 12 Indian Brigade as reported by the Indian media. The 10 Dogra battalion has a majority of Sikh soldiers and it also housed a petroleum depot. Why would the raiders select a military installation in an area where the indigenous support of their movement is limited and it is located in a high security zone is a question that needs to be examined. Perhaps there was no such raid and an accidental or at best a sniper fire in the petroleum depot caused the mayhem and resulted in high casualties. It would make sense for the beleaguered Indian leadership to twist the tale and blame the entire incident on Jihadi elements, in an effort to gain the support of the western world by raising the spectre of the threat posed by such groups.

The four bodies of the alleged infiltrators have not been displayed to date on the Indian TVs that raises further doubts about the authenticity of the official Indian version. It is possible these could be displayed later, which would then raise the question whether they belong to the alleged perpetrators or to four Pakistani prisoners languishing in the Indian jails who have either expired recently or killed for the purpose.

The Uri incident gives more authenticity to the dictum about history rhyming itself. For far too long the Indians have been blaming Pakistan for all the ills and troubles that arise because of the 30 ongoing insurgencies it faces. The Uri killings has a strong resemblance to the other three and it is time a neutral world body examines the Indian version and claim to determine the truth. Not to do so would be a travesty of justice. And finally, Rajnath Singh, the Indian Home Minister who had fumed in a tweet, “Pakistan is a terrorist state and should be identified and isolated as such,” should either be told to conclusively prove his assertions or is made to shut up.

Writer can be reached at (Email: jamal4701@yahoo.co.uk)