http://rinf.com/alt-news/breaking-news/u-s-govt-backs-fascists-who-want-to-destroy-russia/
201
20
Eric Zuesse

The Nation published an outstanding article on March 9th, by James Carden, which described the remarkable extent to which the Obama government (and virtually all of the Washington Establishment) are supporting (financially and otherwise) fascists who want to destroy Russia.

One such example was a recent event in Washington:

It featured the deputy speaker of Ukraine’s Parliament, Andriy Parubiy. According to the program bio, Parubiy served as the “commandant” of the Euromaidan (why did an ostensibly peaceful protest require a “commandant” anyway?) and, later, as secretary of Ukraine’s National Security and Defense Council. The bio provided to attendees might fairly be described as selective. Unmentioned was Parubiy’s role in cofounding the neo-fascist Svoboda party, and his ties to extremist right-wing groups.

After Parubiy’s presentation, which amounted to little more than a recitation of neocon talking points, former US Ambassador to Ukraine John Herbst gushed: “That was wonderful.” The Atlantic Council’s Ariel Cohen praised Parubiy’s presentation as “inspiring and impressive.”

Carden unfortunately failed to mention that the Atlantic Council is a PR agency that was established in order to promote NATO, the anti-Russia military alliance, which today’s Ukrainian government wants to join, and which America’s President wants to be in NATO.

Here is how I described Parubiy on 17 February 2015::

Andrey Parubiy, a co-founder of the Social Nationalist Party of Ukraine, which the CIA renamed the “Freedom” Party (“Svoboda”) in order to hide its origin as Ukraine’s nazi party, announced on Sunday February 15th, that he’ll be seeking weapons from the U.S. He had started (but the CIA named) Ukraine’s ‘Anti Terrorist Operation,’ which has been trying to exterminate the residents in Ukraine’s Donbass region, Ukraine’s separatist region. Parubiy’s announcement said, “Next week I’m off to the United States to speak about this very subject,” of getting Washington to supply the weapons necessary to finish that job.

The reason for his visit is: Ukraine is running out of bullets, guns, and other necessary equipment to achieve his goal. It’s a goal he had only begun as the organizer of Ukraine’s ‘Anti Terrorist Operation.’ The ‘ATO’ had commenced soon after the February 2014 coup in Ukraine, and has not been proceeding nearly as quickly as had been planned; it’s way behind schedule.

According to German intelligence sources, no more than 50,000 people have been killed so far in the operation, though more than a million have fled, which also counts as success because the goal is to clear the land there. As a retired Ukrainian general who supports the operation said, “The shelling there is done as intimidation, … not just object destruction, but [also as] intimidation [to get the population to flee to nearby Russia]. The civilian population is intimidated by a chaotic bombardment.” That constant bombardment requires lots of bombs and bullets, which is why Parubiy now needs a big resupply.

Crimea’s Chief Prosecutor, Natalya Poklonskaya, who lived in Kiev and was a criminal prosecutor in Ukraine’s national government until the coup, but who quit because she didn’t want to serve in what she called a “nazi” government which was being established from the coup, says that Parubiy “was the leader of the armed part of Maidan” — he was the key organizer of the masked snipers who dressed as government forces and shot both the police and the Maidan demonstrators during the coup and so brought down the sitting President of Ukraine. If what she says about his role is correct, then Paribuy was crucial in the success of the 22 February 2014 overthrow of democratically elected Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych and was also crucial to the fulfillment of the appointment that occurred four days later of Yanukovych’s replacement as Ukraine’s leader, Arseniy Yatsenyuk, whom Victorial Nuland of the U.S. State Department had already selected, on 4 February 2014, to become Ukraine’s new leader.

So, Parubiy was crucial in America’s successful take-over of Ukraine, and he will now be coming to Washington to request from Congress and the U.S. President the military support needed to finish the job that he and they had started, by completing the extermination of the residents in the Donbass region, which is the region whose residents had voted 90% for Yanukovych (it’s dark purple on that map) and have refused to accept the legitimacy of the Obama-coup Government.

Then, on 26 February 2015, I reported that,

The Deputy Speaker of Ukraine’s parliament, Andriy Parubiy, who had been the co-founder of the Nazi-inspired Social Nationalist Party of Ukraine, met in Washington on Wednesday, February 25th, with members of the U.S. House and Senate who support his request that the U.S. Government donate weapons to his virtually bankrupt Government. Parubiy also visited with the Pentagon. Weapons are needed by his Government because his Government is engaged in a civil war against the residents in the area of Ukraine that had voted 90% for the former Ukrainian President, Viktor Yanukovych, whom Parubiy himself (when he was called “the Mayor of Maidan”) led to overthrow in a violent February 2014 coup.

According to a recent report by Gabriel Gatehouse of the BBC, witness testimony and photographic evidence both conflict with Parubiy’s account of how the overthrow a year ago occurred. The United States Government strongly supported Yanukovych’s overthrow, and denies that it was a coup. The Obama Administration calls it an expression of Ukrainian democracy, and says that the replacement Government was “duly elected” (though by whom was left unsaid by Mr. Obama), and that when elections for a new Ukrainian President were held in northwest Ukraine on 25 May 2014, in which no one in the rebelling region participated, the residents in the rebelling region were terrorists if they refused to accept the election’s winner as being their President. The residents still refused to accept the winner of that election as being their leader. The Government, on 2 May 2014, massacred an estimated 100+ peaceful demonstrators against the Government, in Odessa, and sent troops into the southeast to take over their local governments, and so the civil war started. Mr. Parubiy was a member of the small team that planned the Odessa massacre.

The residents in the area of Ukraine that is being bombed and even firebombed by Parubiy’s Government had opposed the overthrow, because they had voted 90% for the person who was being overthrown; they did not feel that an imposed new leader would be acceptable to them. The continued bombing of them by the replacement Government has thus-far failed to persuade the residents there to support Parubiy’s Government; and, so, those residents have declared their region to be no longer a part of Ukraine. Ukraine’s President, Petro Poroshenko, disagrees; he says that they have no right to do that and that they are therefore ‘terrorists’ for seceding from Ukraine. The United States Government supports that position, and Congress voted more than 98% for it. However, U.S. President Barack Obama, whose Administration ran that coup and actually selected the leader of the interim government to replace Yanukovych, Ukraine’s current Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk, hasn’t yet decided whether to send Ukraine more weapons than he has already sent.

Parubiy was also the founder of Patriot of Ukraine, and this article presents their ideology, which is rabidly anti-Russian, but also anti-Semitic and boldly for ‘White Power,’ while it assumes that pureblood ‘Ukrainians’ are the whitest of the whites. People such as this are now feted in Washington, as if the nazis had won WW II and we were them. Being rabidly anti-Russian gives nazis a pass here. This is the entire Washington Establishment as an extension of Allen Dulles’s CIA, which brought even self-proclaimed Nazis into the U.S. and gave them considerable power both here and abroad, because Dulles had secretly been supporting Hitler’s movement all along. Nazis hated Russia, and this has given them carte-blanche by the Washington Establishment.

James Carden’s article in The Nation continues:

Writing in Forbes recently, Adam Ereli, State Department official-turned-lobbyist for the Turkish Institute for Progress, warned that Russia is in the process of turning Armenia into a “new satellite state.” … Ereli is hardly alone is identifying what may be the next front in the new cold war. In a letter to The Washington Post, Andrew Bowen, a Senior Fellow at the Center for the National Interest, decried the growing military ties between Russia and Armenia, which he claims threaten Turkey, “an indispensable US ally and partner in the fight against the Islamic State.”

Leave aside the wholly unsubstantiated — indeed, laughable — claims that Turkey is an “indispensable ally” in the fight against ISIS. The authors simply dismiss the fact that Russian troops are in Armenia at the invitation of the Armenian government. … Does Russia have any legitimate interests?

Carden’s point is shockingly true: Washington denies the legitimate national-security interest that the Russian people have, to not be surrounded by NATO nations whose militaries have been united, ever since U.S. President George H.W. Bush double-crossed Mikhail Gorbachev in 1990, in a plan to expand NATO right up to Russia’s borders, and then do — in spades — to the Russian people the type of thing that the communist dictator of the Soviet Union, Nikita Khrushchev, had tried to do to the American people in the 1962 Cuban Missile Crisis. John Fitzgerald Kennedy didn’t accept it in 1962, and Vladimir Putin isn’t accepting it in 2016. For that, Obama calls Russia the world’s most aggressive nation, which is actually what his own government has been and is.

Here is a terrific 1992 BBC documentary that provides the nazi-fascist Allen Dulles CIA organized origin of G.H.W. Bush’s plan, and its continuation right up to the time when Russia abandoned communism and eliminated its NATO-mirror alliance, the Warsaw Pact, which was the time when Bush’s plan continued that of Dulles, but after the anti-communist rationalization for it was dead and gone. That documentary enables one to understand not only Parubiy, but also the CIA operation that made him and that prepared him to be a leader in the new, U.S.-fascist-run Ukrainian nation.

On 24 November 2014, I headlined, “U.S. Among Only 3 Countries at U.N. Officially Backing Nazism & Holocaust-Denial; Israel Parts Company from Them; Germany Abstains.” The Obama-appointed U.N. Representative, Samantha Power, formerly a journalist famous for condemning genocide, was now one of only three supporters at the U.N., of ethnic cleansing: “In a U.N. vote, on November 21st, only three countries — the United States, Ukraine, and Canada — voted against a resolution to condemn racist facsism, or “nazism,” and to condemn denial of Germany’s World War II Holocaust against primarily Jews. This measure passed the General Assembly, on a vote of 115 in favor, 3 against, and 55 abstentions (the abstentions were in order not to offend U.S. President Obama, who was opposed to the resolution).”

Now that the aristocrats, who run America, no longer have communism to kick around, they’ve gone whole-hog fascist, themselves; and, yet, they’re still considered by the American people to be not shunned and condemned, but instead elected and (by some) even praised. What’s perhaps yet more ominous is that Europeans don’t condemn them. Though none of the EU nations joined the fascist Obama in that U.N. vote, they all stay in NATO and in the American-run EU. No matter how evil the U.S. Government becomes, it retains a thick coat of Teflon. Seemingly more-appropriate allies for today’s Establishment Washington than Europans are, are the Saud family, the biggest financial backers and arms-suppliers to jihadist groups such as Al Qaeda and ISIS — and, like the American aristocracy, they’re rabidly anti-Russian. That type of aristocrat could be their model. After all, the born Polish nobleman and longtime American, Zbigniew Brzezinski, a co-founder of David Rockefeller’s Trilateral Commission, is proud, even today, of having helped create Al Qaeda to defeat the Soviet-supported government of Afghanistan, and he still continues to blame Russia for just about everything — just like Obama does. The U.S. Congress is urging him to do it even more. He’s not enough of a fascist to suit today’s Congress. He’s not doing enough harm to Russia, fast enough to satisfy them. He’s not making the (nazi) ’progress’ that they demand.

—————

Investigative historian Eric Zuesse is the author, most recently, of They’re Not Even Close: The Democratic vs. Republican Economic Records, 1910-2010, and of CHRIST’S VENTRILOQUISTS: The Event that Created Christianity.