http://www.360nobs.com/2016/03/buhari-set-ban-cattle-roaming-nigeria/
203
20
The President Muhammadu Buhari-led government is conducting plans to halt the ‘roaming’ of cattle across the country, within the next 18 to 24 months.

READ ALSO: #IStandWithAgatu: Shocking Audio Recording Of Fulani Herdsman Bragging About Killing Children, Vows To Wreak More Havoc

This disclosure was made known by the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Chief Audu Ogbeh, at the 19th Regional Implementation Forum for International Fund for Agricultural Development-supported projects in West and Central Africa in Abuja on Tuesday.

READ ALSO: #IStandWithAgatu: Gory Images Of Bloody Carnage Wrought By Fulani Herdsmen [Viewer Discretion Is Advised]

The minister also assured herdsmen that the government will allocate grazing fields where cattles would be restricted to, adding that grass seedlings would be imported and planted in the reserved areas.



Speaking as a representative of the President on the event, Ogbeh said: “This is why our government has decided that grasslands in large portions around the country will be created and improved grass seeds will be brought in from other countries, which have gone ahead of us to create the desired grass that will make it unnecessary for the herdsmen to roam about. So in the in next 18 to 24 months, we assure you that no cattle will roam about in this country. “We need young women and men who can invest in cattle rearing and milk production as this must not be left only to the Fulani herdsmen. Feeding cattle has been an issue, which we need to address. “We have given support to rice, wheat and cassava farmers; also to cocoa producers.”

This measure is aimed at curbing the incessant invasion of communities and massacre of the indigenes by Fulani herdsmen.

Bear in mind, this is coming on a day when Governor Ayodele Fayose of Ekiti state attacked the President, accusing him of paying attention to issues pertaining to other countries, rather than dealing with the problems facing Nigeria.

READ ALSO: Buhari Hasty To Condemn Cote d’Ivoire Attacks, Mute On Agatu, Mile 12 Killings – Fayose

Fayose had described the President’s quick condemnation of Sunday’s terrorist attack on the Grand Bassam Resort in Cote D’Ivoire as hypocritical, saying that back in Nigeria, the President kept mute for days over the Fulani herdsmen massacre of over 300 Agatu people of Benue State, the Mile 12 Lagos killings and wanton destruction of properties among others