http://www.peoplesdailyng.com/zaria-killings-shiite-children-demand-release-of-detained-parents/
202
20
From Mohammad Ibrahim, Kaduna

Children of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria known as Shiites whose parents were detained by the Nigerian Army in December 2015 have demanded for their immediate release as they expressed sadness with the Nigerian government for denying them the right to parental love and care as they grow.

This was contained in a statement signed by a pupil, Mujahid Ibrahim, from the Fudiyya Islamic Schools Foundation Kaduna during a peaceful protest march calling for the unconditional release of Sheikh Ibraheenm Zakzaky.

The pupils who come from various schools across Kaduna staged the peaceful protest from the gates of Kaduna Polytechnic to the center of Tudun Wada in Kaduna metropolis.

“We wonder what moral lessons the government is imparting on the coming generation with these kinds of acts of impunity that could only be described as state terrorism”.

“over sixty children have so far been born, including a set of twins, since the unfortunate massacre whose parents have all been killed by the Nigerian Army for no justifiable reason.

“It behooves on us to ask what these innocent children have done to be denied seeing their parents in life. Definitely this is a big crime against humanity that remains unforgivable”.

The statement also called for the release of the leader of the Movement and all those in detention “We condemn the government and Nigerian Army brutality and their arrogant display of inhumanity against us and call for the release of all our members. Most importantly we demand the immediate and unconditional release of our leader Sheikh Ibraheem Zakzaky.”

It could be recalled that in December last year the motorcade of the Chief of Army Staff COAS, Lt. Gen Tukur Buratai was allegedly blocked by members of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria which led to the killings and detention of many members of the Movement including the leader Sheikh Ibraheem Zakzaky and his wife.

The Kaduna state Governor Nsair El-rufai has since inaugurated a judicial Commission of Inquiry to investigate the remote courses of the incident.

Members of the Movement have threatened boycotting the Commission if their leader is not released.