http://kutv.com/news/local/utahs-senators-vow-to-fight-supreme-court-nominee
202
20
(KUTV) President Barack Obama's announcement that he is nominating Judge Merrick Garland to fill the vacancy in the Supreme Court set off a firestorm between senate republicans who vow to fight the nomination, and democrat leaders who argue there is no reason to wait until the election to select a replacement for former Justice Antonin Scalia.

Much of the debate has centered around Utah's two senators -- Mike Lee and Orrin Hatch.

Both Utah Senators said Wednesday that they will fight any hearing in the Senate to appoint Judge Garland.

Orrin Hatch, who previously praised Garland, said that the Senate must 'protect the will of the people' and not allow a Supreme Court nominee to be appointed under President Obama.

Similarly, Utah Senator Mike Lee, who sits on the Senate Judiciary Committee, said senate leaders have an obligation to block any nominee proposed by President Obama.

The Republican National Committee said they will launch a series of attack ads and other media strategies to bolster support against .

RELATED: RNC launches campaign to oppose Obama's Supreme Court pick

Obama pre-empted the senate republicans' attack by citing Utah Senator Orrin Hatch's previous praises of Judge Merrick Garland when he was up for nomination to the Washington

"Back then [Hatch] said, 'in all honesty I would like to see one person come to this floor and say one reason why Merrick Garland does not deserve this nomination,'" Obama said.

In an interviewwith Newsmax.com Sunday, Hatch said he thought Obama would nominate a very liberal candidate, and even said Garland's name as an unlikely pick from the President.

"The President told me several times he's going to name a moderate [to fill the court vacancy], but I don't believe him [Obama] could easily name Merrick Garland, who is a fine man. He probably won't do that because this appointment is about the election. So I'm pretty sure he'll name someone the [liberal Democratic base] wants," Hatch said in the interview.

After the nomination, Hatch, much like other Senate Republicans said nothing about Garland's merit as a nominee, but insisted the nomination should not be considered until after a new president has been elected.

REALTED:Obama nominates Judge Merrick Garland to Supreme Court

Follow Jeremy Harris on Twitter @jeremykharris for breaking news, updates and more.

