http://ekurd.net/us-recognises-yazidi-genocide-2016-03-16
202
20
WASHINGTON,— The US House of Representatives has voted to call atrocities committed by the Islamic State against Yazidi Kurds, Christians and other religious minorities in the Middle East “genocide”, a move that could pressure the Obama administration to ramp up action in the fight against Islamic State (IS).

The Republican-dominated House voted 383-0 on Monday in favor of a resolution to declare those who commit or support atrocities against Christians, Yazidis, and other ethnic and religious minorities, guilty of genocide.

But as calls to label the acts as genocide have grown across the world – the European parliament unanimously backed a resolution in favor of the designation last month – the Obama administration has hesitated to make such a declaration.

The United Nations in November 2015 described the attack on the Yazidis as a possible genocide.

“Regardless of whether their conduct satisfies certain legal definitions, including genocide and crimes against humanity, the United States has been clear that our interest in accountability for the perpetrators remains undiminished,” a State Department spokesman, John Kirby, said hours before the vote.

Islamic State group has extended its control on most parts of Sinjar (Shingal) district in northwest Iraq on August 3, 2014 which led thousands of Kurdish families to flee to Mount Sinjar, where they were trapped in it and suffered from significant lack of water and food, killing and abduction of thousands of Yazidis as well as rape and captivity of thousands of women.

According to Human Rights organizations, thousands of Yazidi Kurdish women and girls have been forced to marry or been sold into sexual slavery by the IS jihadists. Kurdish officials say thousands of Yazidi girls still in Islamic State captivity.

The secretary of state, John Kerry, must declare whether or not the atrocities are considered a genocide by Thursday because of a deadline Congress wrote into the omnibus spending bill passed in December.

Kirby said Kerry is still evaluating evidence of the atrocities. “I’ll also just say that he has taken [this] very, very seriously and wants to make sure that whatever determination that he makes, it’s fact-based and that it’s adequately reflective of what we’re seeing on the ground,” he said.

Historically, the US has been reluctant to declare genocide because the UN’s 1948 convention on the prevention and punishment of the crime of genocide stipulates that if an act is deemed a genocide, then punishment is necessary by the signatories.

“If we call it something else – ethnic cleansing, mass atrocity – then punishment is not required under the law,” said Elisabeth Hope Murray, an assistant professor of security studies and international affairs at Embry-Riddle University.

Intervention is not mandatory under the convention, though that is how such a declaration has been interpreted over the past 70 years since it was enacted, Murray said.

Should the Senate vote in favor of the companion resolution, Congress will officially recognize the acts of Isis as genocide. This will test what constitutes recognition under the convention, especially if the White House and State Department continue to avoid calling it a genocide.

U.S. Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton said on Dec 29, 2015 she now believes the Islamic State group’s persecution of the Kurdish Yazidi minority and other religious and ethnic minorities in the Middle East should be defined as “genocide.”

In March 2016 mayor of the Yazidi town of Sinjar said that dozens of the Kurdish Yazidi girls who were kidnapped by Islamic State (IS) militants in August 2014, have been relocated to other countries, including Afghanistan, Pakistan, Libya and Chechnya.

Over 600,000 Yazidi Kurds live in villages in Iraqi Kurdistan region and in Kurdish areas outside Kurdistan region in around Mosul in Nineveh province, with additional communities in Transcaucasia, Armenia, Georgia, Turkey, and Syria. Additional Yazidi communities located in Germany.

There are almost 1.5 million Yazidis worldwide.

Copyright ©, respective author or news agency, theguardian.com | Ekurd.net

Comments

Comments