http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3460293/White-supremacist-59-attacked-18-year-old-Chinese-girl-hatchet-act-ethnic-cleansing.html
201
20
Arrested: Dana Ericson, 59, allegedly attacked Yue Zhang, 18, on Thursday because she is Chinese

An Indiana man told police he attacked an 18-year-old Chinese girl with a hatchet on Thursday as an act of 'ethnic cleansing.'

'Is it a crime to strike evil?' Dana Ericson, 59, allegedly told the authorities about his decision to strike Brown County High School exchange student Yue Zhang in the back as she was taking photos for a school project near Trolly's BBQ in downtown Nashville.

Zhang survived the alleged attack thanks to her thick coat but still suffers from lacerations in her back that are two-inches deep, according to WBIW.

Police arrested Ericson and his bond was set at $500,000, according to The Washington Post.

Ericson, who told police he is a white supremacist, was charged with attempted murder, aggravated battery and battery causing serious injury.

On Friday Ericson told Judge Judith Stewart: 'I don't believe in your law. Your laws are a bunch of crap.'

Ericson has a history of criminal charges including battery, intimidation, and stalking though many of those charges were dismissed after he agreed to mental health treatment.

Ericson takes medication but didn't take his pills on the day of the alleged attack, according to Wish TV.

Police say that the attack came 'out of the blue,' and that Ericson did not know the teen or the host family.

School project: Ericson, 59, allegedly struck Yue Zhang in the back as she was taking photos for a school project near Trolly's BBQ (pictured) in downtown Nashville

The victim's host family has not spoken out following the attack but Nashville residents have started a letter campaign to support the victim as she recovers from the alleged stabbing.

The teen was released from the hospital and is in stable condition and is due back in school this week.

Many residents are in shock following the incident. Some recalled seeing the girl hunched over in pain following the alleged assault.

'It’s scary and sad that they would do something to a poor little innocent girl like that,' Nashville business owner Tina Hunt told Fox News.

Indiana is just one of a few states that does not have any hate crime laws, according The Washington Post.