http://armenpress.am/eng/news/836972/armenian-massacres-in-azerbaijan-was-a-state-sponsored-program.html
203
20
YEREVAN, FEBRUARY 23, ARMENPRESS. What happened years ago in Sumgait, Baku and other Armenian-populated regions of Azerbaijan was a state sponsored program. Executive director of "Against Illegal Arbitrariness" NGO Larisa Alaverdyan told about this ahead of the remembrance day of Sumgait massacres in a press conference held at “Armenpress” media hall. “Today, considering the existing numerous facts, we can document that the Sumgait massacres had been planned in advance. Mass slaughter of Armenians and forced deportation were carried out. Armenians were intimidated for days. Similar operations were carried out in over 300 settlements with Armenian population”, Larisa ALaverdyan said, stating that oppression of Armenians had started already in 1988. There was a period when 331 Armenians were slaughtered in a day. Larisa Alaverdyan mentioned that Azerbaijan continued its genocidal policy embraced in 1918 and in some sense even surpassed Turkey. If there are Armenian churches, schools, Armenian population, Armenian MPs in Turkey, there is nothing Armenian in Azerbaijan.

Director of the Ahazang (Alert) NGO Julieta Yeremyants emphasized that Azerbaijani official data speaks about 3 dozens of victims, while in reality there were hundreds of victims.

“I regret that the world did not give a right assessment to Sumgait incidents. If the Sumgait incidents were condemned on site, neither Ganja, nor Baku incidents would take have taken place. I am from Ganja. Operations started also in Ganja during Sumgait incidents. Electricity and telephones were off, so as to cut any contact with outside world. We leaned on March 3 what had happened in Sumgait, and immediately the squads formed by the government attacked Armenians of Ganja. It was an unexpected attack but Armenians of Ganja formed a group and organized self-defense”, Julieta Yeremyants said.

She recalls how Azerbaijani officials used to arrive in Ganja and conduct anti-Armenian hate propaganda prior to the attacks, saying that they are not going to give the beautiful Karabakh to Armenians.

She says that 45 thousand Armenians lived in Ganja who were considered as incomers, expressing resentment over the fact that after living there for 200 years, they are considered incomers, while those, who arrived a day before, are taken as natives.

According to Julieta Yeremyants, 360 thousand Armenians fled Azerbaijan to Armenia, but at that time over 800 thousand Armenians lived in Azerbaijan. They have spread all over the world.