http://viewswire.eiu.com/index.asp?layout=VWArticleVW3&article_id=1723999956&region_id=&country_id=1110000311&refm=vwCtry&page_title=Latest+analysis&fs=true
203
20
FROM THE ECONOMIST INTELLIGENCE UNIT

Shia militias have become increasing prominent actors since the fall of Mosul to Islamic State (IS) in June 2014. Some of the most powerful ones, such as the Badr Brigade, exert significant influence on the government. Although the mantle of fighting IS is increasingly returning to the army, the militias are focusing on entrenching their position away from the frontlines. They periodically commit abuses and clash with other sects, and there is a growing risk that they could become a state within a state.

A number of Shia militia quickly established themselves in Iraq following the fall of the Baath regime in 2003, notably the Badr Brigade, which evolved from a unit of Iraqi exiles that fought on the Iranian side in the Iran-Iraq war. Militias went on to play a prominent role in the vicious sectarian civil war that flared in 2006‑07, and also periodically clashed with each other for influence within the Shia community. Subsequently, their influence was partly mitigated, with some being partly integrating into the security forces and others being demobilised, sometimes by force. A key moment was in early 2008, when the Iraqi army cracked down on the Mahdi Army, a militia loyal to a cleric, Moqtada al‑Sadr, in Baghdad and Basra; it subsequently disbanded.

A new wave

However, a number of Iranian backed groups, such as Asaib Ahl al‑Haq (AAH), a splinter group from the Mahdi Army, and Kataib Hizbullah grew in prominence during the final years of the US military deployment, periodically attacking US forces. Subsequently, they have become involved in the Syrian civil war, supporting the regime of Bashar al‑Assad with a focus on defending the shrine of Sayyidah Zaynab (the granddaughter of the Prophet Mohammed), which is located in Damascus and is an important destination for Shia pilgrimage. This mobilisation effort related to Syria meant that these groups were well prepared to respond to the call by Grand Ayatollah Ali Sistani, the most senior cleric in Iraq, in 2014 for volunteers to defend shrines and repulse IS following the fall of Mosul in June of that year.

The precise numbers of militiamen remain unclear. Badr, AAH and Kataib Hizbullah are the largest and most independently minded of the militia, each with around 20,000 fighters being paid by the state. There are roughly another 40,000 Shia fighters, including re-mobilised remnants of the Mahdi Army (under the "Peace Brigades" banner) or those affiliated with smaller political parties, who are more closely integrated into the chain of command under the prime minister, Haider al‑Abadi, and his defence minister, Khaled al‑Obeidi. There are also smaller numbers of Sunni militias, numbering less than 20,000 in total.

Budget battle

The militias played an important role in the first year of the war against IS, solidifying the defence of Baghdad and Samarra, and then repulsing the group from much of Babil, Diyala and Salahaddin provinces. However, their lightly armed and unprofessional fighters have proved ineffective in taking ground in urban combat, and had to defer to the Iraqi Army in Tikrit in April 2015, after losing around 2,000 fighters probing IS's defences. There are also serious concerns that their involvement could encourage some local Sunnis to back IS, for fear of militia reprisals. This is the reason why, although they were brought into Anbar in summer 2015, to defend the route to Baghdad after the fall of Ramadi, they were subsequently withdrawn to allow the Iraqi Army and Sunni volunteers to recapture the city.

The success of the Ramadi operation has strengthened Mr Abadi's position in his dealings with the militias. However, they remain extremely strong, particularly Badr, led by Hadi al‑Amiri, which now controls most of Diyala province and also runs the Ministry of Interior, given its dual status as a both a militia and an elected political party. It is formally a component of Mr Abadi's State of Law coalition, holding nearly one-fifth of its seats in parliament. It is looking to increase its independent political footprint significantly in the 2017 provincial elections. AAH and Kataib Hizbullah are also strong and are diplomatically problematic, given their anti-US sentiment and close links to the Iranian Revolutionary Guards Corps. The official head of the Popular Mobilisation (a state-sponsored umbrella group, comprising some 40 militias), Abu Madhi al‑Muhandis, is on the US list of terrorists and was sentenced to death in Kuwait for alleged involvement in bombings back in 1983. He is seeking to turn the Popular Mobilisation into a permanent institution, rather than a temporary response to the IS threat.

Aside from the battle against IS, there is an internal battle under way for influence and money, heightened by Iraq's current fiscal constraints. Mr Abadi has been trying to cut the numbers of fighters paid by the government and, although he managed to cut the payroll briefly last year, he was forced by his political partners to expand the number of fighters receiving state salaries to 120,000 in 2016, for which US$2bn has been allocated in the budget. More recently, he has been trying again to cut back on the militias, questioning on February 15th whether half of those receiving salaries are actually engaged in fighting and requesting an audit of their numbers. He took action to implement this on February 17th, when he appointed a former general, Muhsin al‑Kaabi, to be co-head of the Popular Mobilisation, alongside Mr Muhandis, with a mandate to cut back on their numbers and other costs.

Out of control

Although the worst fears of widespread ethnic cleansing by the militias in the wake of IS's defeat in Diyala and elsewhere has not happened, there have been a series of serious incidents. The most recent were attacks on Sunni mosques and shops in Muqdadiya after IS bombed a café frequented by militiamen on January 11th. This retribution was strongly condemned by Ayatollah Ali al‑Sistani, who issued the fatwa that created the Popular Mobilisation in the first place. There was an even more serious incident in August 2014, when militias gunned down 73 worshippers at a Sunni mosque in another part of Diyala, which is Iraq's most demographically mixed province. The militias also clashed with Kurds further to the north, in Tuz Khurmatu last November, after an altercation at a checkpoint led to two days of looting and arson, which was also condemned by Ayatollah Sistani.

The threat posed by the militas is not limited to the territories liberated from IS. As the uniformed security forces have been deployed to the north to fight IS, the militias—as well as criminal gangs—have exploited the resulting vacuum to once again extend their influence in much of the Shia south, which has become increasingly lawless.

Advances over the last year point suggest that IS can indeed be defeated within the next few years, at least as a territorial entity, if not as a terrorist network. In the context, the next question is what will Iraq look like post-IS. With the government still weak and divided, and the budget constrained by persistently weak oil prices, the militias look likely to entrench their control, limiting the effectiveness of central power and raising the risk of outright conflict as they clash with the state and each other.