http://www.heraldscotland.com/arts_ents/14749792.Grunt_and_other_paperback_reviews/
202
20
Grunt

Mary Roach (Oneworld, £12.99)

The author of several popular science books, Roach investigates here how medical science assists the military. She finds that it’s a never-ending task which not only involves the treating of wounds, such as the injuries caused by IEDs (improvised explosive devices) exploding upwards from beneath a vehicle, but also hearing loss, maggots and flies, diarrhoea and other gastrointestinal afflictions, even penis reconstruction (and the possibility of penis transplants). Roach has a strong stomach – her 2003 book Stiff was about the University of Tennessee’s cadaver farm – but also a wicked wit. Coming across problems that would never occur to civilians, and medical scientists who think outside the box to solve them, she makes a good stand-in for the reader, expressing amazement, admiration and amusement in equal measure. Humbled one moment by the bravery of researchers who will pump a corpse’s blood into their own veins, the next she’ll be childishly delighted that a powerful laser is activated by a “giant red button”.

Submission

Michel Houellebecq (Vintage, £8.99)

Houellebecq likes nothing so much as to provoke. And in this book (published, as fate would have it, on the day of the Charlie Hebdo massacre) he envisions an Islamic France in the year 2022, the left having formed a coalition with the Muslim Fraternity to keep Marine Le Pen’s Front National out of office. Told from the point of view of the misogynistic and generally unpleasant François, a Sorbonne lecturer considering whether to convert for the sake of his career, it depicts an acquiescent France accepting Islamic law and consequently reclaiming its place on the world stage. The author admits to being “probably” Islamophobic, but his target here seems to be France’s political class, institutions and much-vaunted intellectuals. He may even be suggesting, in his depiction of a peaceful and prosperous Islamic France, that the country could do a lot worse. His intentions are shrouded in ambiguity, but presented in such a way as to spark robust debate.

Mistress Of The Just Land

David Ashton (Two Roads, £8.99)

Already established in the Greenock-born author’s Inspector McLevy books, Jean Brash breaks out into her own spin-off series here, as killers stalk Victorian Edinburgh. The madam of a classy bawdy-hoose in Leith, Jean was born into poverty and grew up alongside prostitutes, dragging herself up to something approaching respectability. All that is threatened after a fateful Hogmanay party, when a judge is found murdered in her S&M dungeon. The discovery of a murder victim on her premises could have disastrous consequences, so rather than informing old friend Inspector McLevy she chooses to investigate the crime herself – a decision which uncovers a list with more names to be scored off and pulls her towards a conspiracy stretching back decades. Ashton is an old hand at milking the Old Town, New Town and Leith for their maximum atmosphere, suspense and air of criminality. That, combined with the intriguing premise of a crime-solving brothel-keeper, makes Mistress Of The Just Land a most diverting page-turner.