http://ynaija.com/fulani-herdsmen-igbo-youths/
202
20
The Ohaneze Youth Council (OYC) has given Fulani herdsmen a 3-day notice to leave Igboland or they will be forcefully ejected.

The proposed ejection of Fulani herdsmen from Igboland is in response to last Monday’s killing of over 40 people in Nimbo community, Uzo-Uwani Local Government Area of Enugu state by Fulani herdsmen.

Consequently, the Igbo youths held an emergency meeting in Enugu on Thursday, April 28.

At the end of the meeting, a communique released noted that Fulani herdsmen “are off-shoots of Boko Haram and must not be allowed any breeding ground in Igbo land. Any herdsman who fails to quit South East by Monday will have himself to blame.”

The communique was signed by the National Vice President of the group, Mazi Obinna Achuonye and the Chairmen of OYC in seven Igbo- speaking states of Abia, Anambra, Ebonyi, Enugu, Delta, Imo and Rivers.

“Never again will Igbo youths fold their arms and watch our people being massacred by blood-sucking terrorists under the guise of herdsmen. Urgent times need drastic measure. We warn all violent Fulani herdsmen to vacate our farmland, our backyards, our territories and boundaries on or before Monday next week.”

“Even though Ohanaeze Ndigbo will meet over the weekend to discuss this menace, Igbo youths will not wait until our people are massacred again before we take action.”

“If after Monday and the herdsmen are still around, we will direct Igbo vigilante groups set up by OYC in all the 95 Local Government Areas in South East to force them out.”

“We have uncovered plots that their next target is Ebonyi State. They are coming from Taraba State to attack Ebonyi. We want the Governor of Ebonyi State and all the security agents in the state to be at alert.”

“Ijaw youths, and Middle Belt progressives are already waiting for the expiration of the deadline on Monday. Fulani herdsmen have pushed us to the wall, time to take action is now or never.”

Comments

- Advertisement -

Follow us on Twitter @YNaija