http://www.politico.com/tipsheets/morning-shift/2016/09/house-ed-and-workforce-to-release-composite-plan-language-today-216237
138
13
House Ed and Workforce to release 'composite plan' language today

With help from Marianne LeVine and Mel Leonor

HOUSE ED AND WORKFORCE TO RELEASE ‘COMPOSITE PLAN’ LANGUAGE TODAY: The House Education and the Workforce Committee will release draft language today for a bill to create so-called “composite” multi-employer plans. The plans, which would combine features of defined benefit and defined contribution plans, are intended to shore up financially troubled multi-employer pensions. Critics of the composite plans wrote a letter to House members earlier this week urging them not to consider such legislation, claiming composite plans don’t provide the same level of protection as traditional multi-employer plans.

Story Continued Below

GOOD MORNING. It's Friday, Sept. 9 and this is Morning Shift, POLITICO's daily tipsheet on labor and employment policy. Send tips, exclusives, and suggestions to mlevine@politico.com, cschneier@politico.com, mleonor@politico.com, and tnoah@politico.com. Follow us on Twitter at @marianne_levine, @CoganSchneier, @melleonor_, and @TimothyNoah1.

ERNST & YOUNG ASKS SCOTUS TO CONSIDER CLASS ACTION WAIVERS: Ernst & Young asked the Supreme Court to consider whether requiring employees to sign contracts waiving their rights to bring class action lawsuits violated the National Labor Relations Act. Last month, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that requiring employees to sign such waivers, thereby agreeing to arbitrate any employment disputes, violated the NLRA.

The company is the second this week to ask SCOTUS to consider the matter, following Wisconsin software giant Epic System’s request last Friday. A circuit court split makes it likely the high court will consider the issue. The Second, Eighth, and Fifth Circuits have ruled class waivers and mandatory arbitration permissible under the NLRA, while the Seventh and Ninth have ruled the opposite. Reuters’ Allison Frankel notes that a three-judge panel at the Second Circuit complicated matters further with a decision that said the Seventh and Ninth Circuits “may be right after all. It’s fair to say, in other words, that the federal circuits badly need guidance from the Supreme Court justices. Outsiders never know for sure whether the court will agree to take up an issue, but this one ticks all of the obvious boxes.” http://reut.rs/2cGh8Ha

LIU FACULTY FILE UNFAIR LABOR CHARGE: The union representing faculty at Long Island University in Brooklyn, N.Y. filed an unfair labor charge with the National Labor Relations Board Thursday, alleging that the university’s termination of employees’ healthcare benefits last week and subsequent faculty lockout violated the National Labor Relations Act. LIU locked out 400 faculty members starting Sept. 3 amid a dispute over a new contract, which expired Sept. 1.

American Federation of Teachers President Randi Weingarten and United Federation of Teachers President Michael Mulgrew sent a letter to New York City Department of Education Chancellor Carmen Farina about what they said was an “urgent” situation at the school: with the teaching staff locked out, there’s no one to supervise the university’s student teachers. “Based on what we know, we believe that what LIU Brooklyn has put in place will negatively affect the learning experience of the student teachers involved,” Weingarten and Mulgrew wrote. They urged NYC schools to make plans to “address the impact of these irresponsible actions by the LIU president.” The faculty will hold a “teach in/speak out” today to “express their disgust” at the lockout, according to an advisory from AFT. The letter is here: http://politico.pro/2cdOYE6 The unfair labor charge is here: http://politico.pro/2cGmphD

TOMORROW: AFL-CIO DAY OF ACTION: The AFL-CIO will lead a “day of action” Saturday, hosting nearly 100 voter mobilization events in Florida, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Ohio, and elsewhere. Volunteers will be canvassing, calling voters, visiting worksites, and working at phone banks to get out the vote. Meanwhile, the anti-Trump For Our Future super PAC, created by billionaire environmentalist Tom Steyer along with the AFL-CIO, AFSCME, AFT and NEA, announced an expansion Thursday into North Carolina and Missouri. The move will focus on voter contact and mobilization, spokesperson Cara Morris Stern said.

GAO: DOL COULD BOOST 401(K) RETIREMENT OPTIONS: The Labor Department could take action to improve retirement options for 401(k) plan participants by incentivizing plan sponsors to offer lifetime income options, a report by the Government Accountability Office said Thursday. Plan participants often struggle to turn their savings into a retirement income stream, and a GAO survey found that many plans didn’t offer withdrawal options or annuity arrangements to help guarantee life-long income.

GAO analysts suggested that fear of liability might deter plan sponsors from offering annuities, and recommended that the department clarify its safe harbor guidelines to ease those fears. The report also recommended that the department provide a liability relief incentive for plan sponsors that offer a diverse mix of lifetime income options. In a response to the GAO recommendations, the Labor Department said helping plan sponsors minimize their legal risks might “degrade” consumer protections. Read the full report and the department’s response: http://bit.ly/2chdBkq

DOL CIO RETIRES: Dawn Leaf, who has led the Labor Department’s IT efforts since 2014, will retire at the end of the month, marking the end of a 30-year career in technology. Deputy CIO Gundeep Ahluwalia, who joined the department in August, is expected to take over as acting CIO in the new fiscal year. More from the Wall Street Journal: http://on.wsj.com/2c2377U.

HARVARD DINING HALL WORKERS WILL VOTE ON STRIKE NEXT WEEK: Dining hall workers at Harvard University, the wealthiest university in the world, will vote on whether to strike Thursday amid stalled contract negotiations. In a statement , UNITE HERE Local 26, which represents the workers, said that their contract expires Sept. 17 and that the university hindered any chance of an agreement by proposing that workers pay more for health care. They're demanding a wage floor of $35,000. "The Harvard administration has the capacity to take leadership on correcting income inequality on its campus, particularly after raising $7 billion in donations in the last 3 years," UNITE HERE Local 26 President Brian Lang said in the statement. "Unfortunately, after 4 months of bargaining the administration has not demonstrated the will to do this."

IN MORE HIGHER ED NEWS: Law360’s Kevin Penton reports that a former New York University photography instructor filed a lawsuit Wednesday alleging the university withheld wages and ultimately fired him because of his racial background and because he complained about discrimination. Koya Abe, who taught photography classes and worked as a clinical instructor in a photography lab, is seeking at least $16 million in actual, compensatory and punitive damages. Abe claims he was excluded from faculty meetings because of his Asian and Japanese background, and that he was underpaid compared to his white counterparts. Though he settled a lawsuit against the school in 2007, he complained again in 2009 about the treatment, and was allegedly fired from his teaching post. After then filing a complaint with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, Abe was fired from his lab position, the lawsuit claims. The case is in the Supreme Court of the State of New York. http://bit.ly/2cJsUUY

WALMART APPEALS NLRB RULING ON RICHMOND IN-STORE PROTEST: Walmart asked a federal judge to reconsider a National Labor Relations Board ruling last month that said workers who engaged in a small, in-store protest at a Richmond store, which some customers witnessed, were disciplined illegally for doing so. GOP Board member Philip Miscimarra dissented, writing that the board’s ruling in Restaurant Horikawa, which said “a broad proscription of union activity in areas where customers are present is not unlawful,” should have applied. Walmart appealed the decision in the U.S. District Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. The appeal is here: http://politico.pro/2cxsb4R

DELOITTE EXTENDS PAID LEAVE BENEFITS: Professional-services firm Deloitte LLP will begin to offer up to 16 weeks of paid leave for caregiving, extending the benefit beyond new parents to allow employees time for eldercare and the care of sick family members, the Wall Street Journal’s Rachel Emma Silverman reports. A recent Deloitte survey of a thousand employees at other companies found that close to nine in 10 employees wanted broader leave policy beyond parental leave, and a report by the AARP Public Policy Institute and National Alliance for Caregiving found that nearly 17 percent of American adults provide unpaid care to another adult. The move is part of a race to the top by technology companies competing to provide ever more generous leave benefits. http://on.wsj.com/2chgtO9.

CHEVRON SUBSIDIARIES OWE $1.5 MILLION AFTER DOL INVESTIGATION: Three Chevron Corporation subsidiaries in California and Texas will pay $1.5 million to 750 oil and gas workers after a Labor Department investigation found the companies failed to pay workers overtime for mandatory pre-shift meetings. The investigation was part of a DOL initiative that focuses on the oil and gas industry, where “data shows violations are common and business models lend themselves to violations.” http://bit.ly/2cGaFfn

ICE EXTENDS EMPLOYMENT AUTHORIZATION FOR F-1 SYRIAN STUDENTS: In a notice in today’s Federal Register, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement is extending employment authorization for Syrians in the U.S. on student visas who have experienced significant economic hardship due to civil unrest in that country. The current authorization extension is set to expire Sept. 30, and ICE has now extended authorization through March 31, 2018. ICE said nearly 750 Syrian students on F-1 visas are enrolled in schools in the U.S. http://bit.ly/2cdvvB9

COFFEE BREAK

— “All in the family,” from the Economist: http://econ.st/2cJIAHQ

— “Economists see tougher road for labor-market improvement,” from the Wall Street Journal: http://on.wsj.com/2c1s7il

—”House Republicans who favor immigration overhaul face potential losses," from the New York Times: http://nyti.ms/2cmYXtE

—”Dominion subsidiaries lock out union workers in 6 states,” from the Associated Press: http://apne.ws/2c9zJeC

— “Hunt for holiday workers heats up, giving wages a boost,” from the Wall Street Journal: http://on.wsj.com/2cI2qmZ

— “The 30 million immigrants Trump would turn away,” from the Atlantic: http://theatln.tc/2cl9JAB

THAT’S ALL FOR MORNING SHIFT.

CORRECTION: A previous version of this newsletter incorrectly stated that Harvard dining hall workers will strike next week. They will vote on whether to strike next week.