http://english.pnn.ps/2016/02/27/iof-suppress-annual-protest-to-open-al-shuhada-street-hebron/
202
20
PNN/Hebron

From the Palestinian Popular Struggle Committee

Tens of Palestinians and solidarity activists have been injured on Friday, as Israeli Occupation Forces (IOF) suppressed the annual protest to open the Al-Shuhada Street, and revive the 22nd anniversary for the Ibrahimi Mosque massacre in Hebron.

The protest, organized by the Youths Against Settlements (YAS) movement, had hundreds of participants which included local and international journalists, activists and representatives.

The demonstration called on Israeli Occupation to open the Al-Shuhada street in central Hebron, let Palestinians back into it, reopen its closed shops, evacuate Israeli settlers from it.

The non-violent protest was attacked by intense Israeli occupation forces who fired teargas grenades and sound bombs towards the activists.

During the protest, activists have held a memoir in remembrance of Hadeel Al-Hashlamoun (18), the schoolgirl who was executed by IOF at the container checkpoint near the Ibrahimi mosque before the start of the Al-Quds Intifada in October.

According to the coordinator for the YAS movement, Issa Amr, the Israeli soldiers have brutally assaulted the lawyer, activist and Chairman of the Independent Commission for Human Rights in Bethlehem, Farid Al-Atrash, in addition to the cameraman for Wattan TV, Mustafa Jaradat, taking them to Jaabara police center near the Kiryat Arba settlement.

Amongst those who were wounded were ziyad Abu Hlayyel, Mufeed Sharabti, journalist Amer Jaabari, journalist Mohammad Shousha and activist Munther Amira.

Munther Amira, head of the Popular Struggle Coordination Committee has said that Hebron is the capital of popular struggle which will continue until the land is free from settlers and occupation.

Last Saturday, the YAS movement released the 7th International Campaign to demand opening the Al-Shuhada street, titled “The blood is still being shed in Hebron.”

The campaign will take place through several activities on an international level, to pressure Israel to open the street that is considered the heart of the city.

The activity also comes around the the 22nd anniversary of the Hebron Mosque massacre, which was carried by the Israeli doctor, Baroch Goldstein, who stormed into and shot-dead 29 Palestinian worshipers in the Ibrahimi mosque.