http://www.nytimes.com/2016/02/28/opinion/sunday/fixing-the-iraq-mess.html
202
20
Third, Iraqi Kurds, who have won autonomy and shed blood against ISIS, expect Baghdad to make revenue- and oil-sharing concessions before committing their soldiers to fighting ISIS again. This will require Mr. Abadi to make compromises that his Shiite base, Turkey and Iran will certainly oppose. Nevertheless, Washington must convince all parties that ridding Iraq of ISIS is in their common interest.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Finally, continued unrest in Basra highlights growing fissures in the Shiite community. Like the Kurds, many Shiites in southern Iraq seek an autonomous region that provides them greater control over Iraq’s extensive southern oil reserves.

Ultimately, Baghdad’s ability to equitably distribute oil profits between the Kurdish, Sunni and Shiite enclaves will determine if Iraq’s breakup will be a managed affair or one decided by bloodshed or Iranian influence.

TOM GREENWOOD

Arlington, Va.

The writer, a retired Marine colonel, commanded an expeditionary unit in Baghdad in 2005 and trained Iraqi security forces in Anbar Province in 2006.

Readers React

Unfortunately, but inevitably, Colonel Greenwood doesn’t tell us even one way to break up Iraq. The reason is clear. There is simply no practical way to do so.

Do the Kurds get credit for their ethnic cleansing of Kirkuk and thus get its oil? What to do with Baghdad, where there is a hodgepodge of Sunni and Shiite neighborhoods? Do we make a place for the Yazidis, the Mandeans and the Zoroastrians, let alone the Christians (if any are left)? Surely the example of Palestine shows how difficult it is to divide a country along religious lines. This is a pipe dream wrapped in a quandary.

LEN CHARLAP

Princeton, N.J.

The proposal by Colonel Greenwood to partition Iraq is a déjà vu moment for those who recall the 2006 Times Op-Ed essay (“Unity Through Autonomy in Iraq”) of Joseph R. Biden Jr., then a senator, and Leslie H. Gelb to divide Iraq into three autonomous zones. In that article, the writers claimed that President George W. Bush had no strategy for victory in Iraq, and instead would hold on only long enough to “pass the problem along to his successor.” With amazing foresight, Mr. Biden and Mr. Gelb predicted that a troop pullout, before resolving the political situation, would precipitate “chaos and a civil war that becomes a regional war.” We are now in the depths of that predicted regional war ignited by the invasion of Iraq. In 2007, with Senator Sam Brownback, Mr. Biden went even further, pushing through a “sense of the Senate” resolution to separate Iraq into three regions, on a vote of 75 to 23.

Colonel Greenwood’s insights on the ISIS complications of the turmoil lend renewed credibility to the wisdom of the original division proposal, which to date is the only viable solution that has been offered to resolve this conflict.

CARL MEZOFF

Stamford, Conn.

So, all we have to do is persuade the Shiite government to respect and give autonomy to the Sunni regions, and persuade all three parties — the Sunnis, the Shiites and the Kurds — to reach an “equitable” division of oil revenues? That is a pretty tall order that assumes that we have the authority to impose or to persuade. Which we don’t. This is for Iraq, Iran, Syria, Turkey and the Kurds to figure out. If we can play a role at all, it must be hand in hand with the Russians as full partners, something many Americans (Secretary of State John Kerry excepted) appear to be unable to fathom, let alone to stomach. Only Russia and the United States in combination have sufficient legitimacy with all factions to make a settlement work.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

GEORGE VERNON

Kazan, Russia

The writer is a lawyer from Wisconsin who is currently giving lectures at a law school in Russia.

As an Iraqi Shiite expatriate who goes frequently to many cities in various regions of Iraq, I feel that Colonel Greenwood’s letter is very accurate in forecasting what will eventually happen. Iraq’s fate, though, is directly linked to neighboring countries, including Syria and Lebanon. That implies that the 100-year-old Sykes-Picot agreement between the superpowers at that time — the British and the French — has to be renegotiated. By whom this time? Perhaps, the United States, Russia, Turkey and Iran; otherwise, each of these four countries could independently undermine a redesign of this volatile region. The United States is the only party capable of providing the necessary creativity and leadership for this redesign to happen.

However, if — a big if — they are able to reach a deal together, then a new Kurdish entity that does not jeopardize a unified Turkey would be formed, Sunni-Shiite tension would ease, peace of mind would return to the gulf countries, and regional stability would shortly follow. I believe that the situation is ripe for such a redesign.

JAAFAR JALABI

Madrid

Iraq should have been partitioned in three parts by the British a century ago. Like the breakup of Czechoslovakia or Yugoslavia, the Kurds should have their own homeland, and the Sunnis and Shiites their individual territorial identities. The Bush administration had the same choice in 2003 but regrettably decided to maintain “Iraq’s national integrity,” a status it enjoyed only because of Saddam Hussein’s dictatorship.

The breakup of Iraq was predictable and should be welcomed now as an opportunity for sectarian cultures to rebuild their lives, thus reducing Iranian influence. Most important, it would end the internecine killings and political factions and grievances, and put the focus on defeating ISIS.

DON SHARPES

Scottsdale, Ariz.

The writer is professor emeritus at Arizona State University and a senior visiting fellow at Cambridge University.

We are famously incapable of introspection. Before we try to “fix” the mess in Iraq and Syria, we should take a look back at how we caused the mess in the first place. We spent a lot of lives and money on a thinly disguised attempt to grab Saddam Hussein’s oil. We didn’t get his oil. Instead we ripped Mr. Hussein’s iron hand off the bubbling religious caldron that is Iraq. I don’t see any constructive role for the United States in forming a solution. Our denial of our culpability blinds us to Iraq’s current-day realities. This is a job for an entity that is not invested in covering up its past mistakes. The United Nations?

ROBERT PALMER

Le Sueur, Minn.

The Writer Responds

The Biden-Gelb partition plan that Mr. Mezoff cites was mostly driven by Washington’s need to find an honorable exit strategy from a war of choice, badly gone awry. Today, many Shiites, Sunnis and Kurds are rejecting parliamentary democracy for authoritarianism, sectarianism and communal violence. Sadly, Iraq’s elite has quit trying to define a national identity and construct a peaceful, pluralistic society that champions the rule of law.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Palmer and Mr. Vernon rightly observe that the United States should not attempt to impose partition on Baghdad given our poor record of trying to “fix” Iraq’s internal problems without sufficient leverage to do so. But this does not mean the United States should oppose future power-sharing arrangements Baghdad may undertake with Sunni and Shiite enclaves (the Kurdish equivalent already exists) to avoid Syria’s fate. With limited Iraqi security forces to fight ISIS and its affiliates, support from the Kurdish Peshmerga and Sunni tribes must be obtained. This will require concessions and increased autonomy from Baghdad.

Mr. Charlap perceptively notes some of the challenges of trying to use formal partition to end ethnic-sectarian fighting. It is not a lost cause. Scholarly research indicates that where homogenous groups can be physically separated from other warring minorities, there is no war recurrence for at least five years. Admittedly, this means Iraq’s remaining mixed communities would require difficult population transfers. Other modalities such as revenue-sharing and enclave security must still be worked out.

Iraq’s central government is beholden to Iran and lacks legitimacy because it cannot protect all its people, create jobs or deliver basic services. Yet it provides resources to the Syrian regime of Bashar al-Assad and allows more than 50 Shiite militias to operate with impunity, despite evidence that they routinely engage in ethnic cleansing and extrajudicial killings. Until this changes, partition will remain an attractive option no matter the complexities of implementation.

TOM GREENWOOD

Arlington, Va.