http://praag.org/?p=22484
203
20
Mrs. Gillian Singiswa, the local embodiment of the Andy Warhol principle that “everyone will be famous for 15 minutes”, after accusing a judge of being “racist”, is hankering after the ANC’s proposed new law against said mental disorder, “racism”, which gives one a sense of déjà vu.

A few questions for Gillian Singiswa sprang to mind, such as: So, when the new law is passed, will you and your fellow social justice warrors have all the “racists” put into camps Pol Pot-style or will you just liquidate them as Beria did to all the Polish nationalists, authors and musicians in the Katyn wood?

I am also very much amused that an amorphous entity like yourself, Mrs. Singiswa – to quote our Trevor Manual Gear who previously masqueraded as “Finance Minister” – should presume to want to kick me, Steve Hofmeyr and countless other Afrikaners (a word which you cannot even spell after all these years) out of our country.

Two of my great-grandfathers fought in the Anglo-Boer War and my father was born in Paul Kruger’s house in Church Street, Pretoria. I do not know what nationality you have or where you got an Afrikaans surname, but I think you should reconsider your little ethnic-cleansing scheme before people start taking you seriously. And being a white-haired clown with very red lips, you surely wouldn’t want that, would you? On the other hand, I have always maintained that the Third Anglo-Boer War would start before the race war, so perhaps in your misguided, confused manner, you are simply displaying some symptoms of the Zeitgeist, of the ethnic polarisation that has gripped this ex-British colony, pitting black against white, English against Afrikaans, Zulu against Pedi, etc.

One solution would be for those who prefer Afromarxist government to simply vacate all these Afrikaans placenames, like Johannesburg or Pretoria, to that land of bliss and liberty, Zimbabwe. “Thy hinterland lies there,” as the inscription reads on Rhodes’s statue in Cape Town. If I were Mrs. Gillian Singiswa, I would surely take the next minibus taxi to Harare and be liberated forever. They also speak English there, only English, with that charming imitation of “pukka” as J.P. Donleavy might say.

Nothing could transport you further away from these Boerish environs, Boerewors, koeksisters, Boeremusiek, rugby, Afrikaans poetry, Steve Hofmeyr’s music, Mimi Coertse, velskoens, potjiekos and God knows what other repulsive manifestations of non-English, non-Afromarxist progressiveness than a permanent kuier on the other side of the Limpopo. And we would happily switch on the electric fence which the dastardly NP switched off in 1987 to keep you there among your soulmates, the ZANU PF zealots who hate whites but love Oxfam food parcels.

I may have exhausted, in mentioning potjiekos and koeksisters, your Afrikaans vocabulary, despite your being burdened with an Afrikaans surname, which cannot go down well in progressive circles, but have you ever looked up the word “voetsek” in the dictionary? I know you don’t own a Tweetalige Woordeboek of any discription, but you may even find it in the English dictionary. Or you could google it, or even use Google Translate on the bits of this post that defy your limited comprehension.