http://thezimbabwemail.com/zimbabwe-4472-zanu-pf-denies-dzamara-abduction-claim.html
130
13
ZANU PF has rejected allegations by Morgan Tsvangirai that the ruling party is responsible for the abduction of a journalist and pro-democracy activist who has been missing since Monday.

Simon Khaya Moyo, the Zanu PF spokesman, said Tsvangirai was exploiting the alleged abduction in a desperate bid to regain lost political relevance.

“He (Tsvangirai) is trying to sell his party because they are short of what to talk about now after being drubbed in consecutive elections,” said Khaya Moyo.

“They no longer talk about things such as their JUICE (the economic blueprint the MDC-T unveiled for the 2013 election). We do not know what happened to the juice, it seems to have disappeared.”

Pro-democracy activists Itai Dzamara was allegedly abducted in Harare on Monday and has not been heard from since.

The activist and associates have been staging sit-ins at Harare’s Africa Unity Square calling for democratic reforms and President Mugabe’s resignation.

Tsvangirai called a press conference in Harare Tuesday where he blamed the Zanu PF regime for Dzamara’s disappearance.

“We are in no doubt as to the perpetrators of this abduction,” said the MDC-T leader.

“We hold Mugabe and his regime responsible for this morbid and senseless act.

“The President, who is also AU and SADC chair, cannot preside over a country where innocent citizens get abducted and disappear.”

But Khaya Moyo dismissed the allegation and told Tsvangirai to allow the police to carry out their investigations.

“I do not even know the person in question (Itai Dzamara) but he (Tsvangirai) is trying to find a case to please his masters because they have nothing to offer the people,” he said.

“If they (Dzamara family) reported to the police, we are law-abiding and if there is anybody who commits a crime, police know what to do; we are not lawless.

“The former Prime Minister should avoid reckless utterances particularly when a police report has been made.

“We do not believe in demeaning people. We have clear principles and policies.”