http://www.ameripublications.com/as-taliban-is-getting-divided-it-is-going-for-soft-targets/77670
203
20
As Taliban is Getting Divided It is ‘Going for Soft Targets’

Along with Mansoor’s threats, the video shows a presumably older segment of the four gunmen from the Charsadda assault practicing with assault rifles at an undisclosed location.

But despite Wednesday’s attack, defiant authorities kept schools in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province open on Thursday.

Meanwhile, the death toll from the assault at Bacha Khan university in the town of Charsadda rose to 21, after another student died in hospital, said police official Tariq Khan.

The attack, claimed by a faction of the Pakistani Taliban, bore a chilling resemblance to a December 2014 massacre at a school in nearby Peshawar that triggered a crackdown on militants that had been credited with a palpable improvement in security.

“We are determined that the young generation of Pakistan will not bow down to the terrorists”, PSB director Akhtar Nawaz said.

A spokesman for rescue workers, Bilal Ahmad Faizi, said 19 bodies had been recovered including students, guards, policemen and at least one teacher, named by media as chemistry professor Syed Hamid Husain.

Pakistani army spokesman Asim Saleem Bajwa confirmed that the operation had been completed at 12:10 p.m. local time after security forces killed four attackers in the operation launched by the security forces following the attack.

The attack has further strengthened resolve of the nation for elimination of terrorism from the country, he added.

As the shooting erupted, staff members at the university administration complex locked themselves in their offices, switched off the lights and lay on the floor, said Salma Khan, a university official.

The attack on the university campus carried out allegedly by the Pakistan Taliban proves that terrorism does not follow any religion but only believes in killing for the sake of killing.

“With the mercy of god, our attacks on all universities and schools will continue”.

“One of the objectives, I would imagine, of targeting this university in particular would be that obviously the terrorists want there to be a debate about everything except the terror”, he said.

His son went on to found the Awami National Party, a secular movement whose vision for Pakistan is opposed to that of the Taliban and other Islamic militants.

Teacher Mohammad Ishtiaq said he saw five gunmen enter the building he was in and begin firing automatic assault rifles, as students ran in all directions.

The attackers carried phones with Afghan numbers and “were in touch with their handlers in Afghanistan”, Bajwa said.

Some of the students were in this room as militants stormed their hostel in a gun and grenade attack Wednesday morning. “In Pakistan, militants recruited, lured or abducted children from mainstream schools and madrassas (religious schools), in some cases to train as suicide bombers”, the report says.