http://nation.com.pk/islamabad/03-Sep-2016/capital-on-high-alert-following-security-threat
130
13
Islamabad-The security was put on high alert in Islamabad yesterday as terror threat looms large over the federal capital after terror attacks in Mardan and Peshawar.



The security and law-enforcement agencies were instructed to remain vigilant and officials were directed to take strong measures to prevent any untoward incident.

Surveillance at the exit and entry points of the city was enhanced to keep a check on the suspects, said the sources in local police.

Snap-checking was also enhanced and the officials were instructed to patrol in their respective areas.

The sources claimed that the security of media houses, markets, key installations, education institutes, business points, important government buildings in the area of Red Zone and Diplomatic Enclave, Jinnah Complex and Potohar Complex was enhanced after the news of terror incidents in Mardan and Peshawar reached the capital.



Earlier, the security personnel conducted search operations in Pathan Colony of Sihala area and a market in the locality.

At least sixty persons were detained in the operation as they failed to produce proof of their identity.

All the persons lacking identity cards and required documents were shifted to a local police station for interrogation.



The operation was conducted in various areas of Tarnol and Sihala police stations including Dore Village, Ittefaq Colony, Pathan Colony, Sihala Bazaar and their adjacent areas.

More than 35 houses were screened and the police recovered arms and ammunition from the nabbed persons.

Ten suspects were held in another search operation in Tarnol area.

Personnel seized unregistered weapons and bullets from their possession.



Furthermore, Anti-Car Lifting Cell (ACLC) of Islamabad police has arrested father and a son involved in selling cars in Punjab after stealing from the capital and also revered a stolen car from them, a police spokesman said.

The suspects have been identified as Raja Shaukat Ali Khan and Raja Shehzad.

Police recovered a black coloured Corolla car (ICT, PT-446) from them which was found stolen from the area of Industrial Area police station.

During the preliminary investigation, they confessed to lift vehicles from Islamabad and later sell them in various areas of Punjab.

