http://www.nairaland.com/2872914/biafra-protesters-attack-rivers-residents
202
20
This is why as a Rivers man i will never be part of biafra and would advice all true Niger deltans to embrace Niger delta republic quest and preach the gospel were ever you go... Dont be deceived by the igbos on biafra. They should go on form biafra with south east states, we are capable as south south to be a republic of our own, we will gain nothing to abandon Niger delta republic for biafra, that is pure foolishness if we do so, we rejected it and can never go back to accept ofcos our dead father will weep in their grave if we do so, are we niger deltans dogs? No we are not dogs we cant vomit and go back to eat our vomit, God 4bid... pls read below copy and share:



Ojukwu's Atrocities on Old Rivers State

Rivers communities seemed to be worse off. Apart from the

killings, torture and other forms of human rights abuse, they

were deliberately evicted from their homes towns and

replace with Igbo indigenes. As a consequence, many

Rivers people from Ikwerre, Ogoni, Okirika, Eleme and

Kalabari communities were evicted to “concentration

camps” in Igbo towns like Umuahia, Owerri, Abiriba, and

Ozuitem. That was how able bodied men, women and

children were systematically starved to death and buried in

farmlands. Ongoing massacre was only confirmed by siting

of dead bodies in New Calabar and Sombriero Rivers of

Rivers State.

An Irish priest who served in Rivers State reported how

Rivers people were maltreated because of perceive

sabotage by the Biafran Igbo soldiers. At Bolo and Ogu in

Okirika, and Onne in Eleme, the villagers suffered the same

fate. After the battle at Onne, Biafran troops removed the

town inhabitants suspected to have collaborated with

federal troops and sent them to the Rainbow Town

headquarters of the Biafran 52 Brigade in Port Harcourt.

Graham-Douglas, who was also thrown into detention,

claimed to have seen about three hundred men detained in

the Rainbow Town for no just cause. He asserted that no

fewer than sixty thousand Rivers people were sent to

different concentration camps in Igbo land.

Graham Douglas narrated the ordeal Rivers people suffered

in the hands of the Igbos in a pamphlet titled “Ojukwu’s

Rebellion and World Opinion”. He claimed that the

minorities tribes had suffered more hardships and

molestations than the Igbo could claim to have suffered at

the hands of Northern Nigerians. Biafra hired Markpress as

it image laundering and propaganda press. They countered

most of the sordid account of massacres committed by

Igbo Biafran in Niger Delta lands, like those narrated by

Graham Douglas. The world was therefore blinded to the

massacres committed in Rivers State.

Some prominent Ikwerre leaders like Elechi Amadi and Obi

Wali were marked for death. History had it that Obi Wali

was hidden by his kinsmen in a human waste dump forest

at Rumueme. Elechi Amadi was made fugitive in his

homeland. Ojukwu ethnic cleansing was coded as

"COMBING". No Niger Delta ethnic group or community was

spared of Ojukwu's combing. History recorded that Biafra

act of combing led to the Massacred of defenseless

civilians at: Ogoni (Bori), Eleme; Okrika (Ogu); Kalabari

(Bakana, Buguma and Billie); Ikwerre (Rumuola, Rumueme

and Isiokpo) and other Niger Delta communities of the

present day Rivers State too numerous to mention.

The plight of the minorities had been so alarming that

several Nigerian students of Rivers State origin in London

staged a peaceful protest against the killing and

displacement of their people. In addition to a peaceful

march from Trafalgar Square to the House of Commons in

London, they also sent out petitions to the United Nations,

the Organization of African Unity (OAU), His Holiness Pope

Paul VI, Emperor Haile Selaisie, the British Prime Minister

and other relevant groups, raising alarm of massacre of

their kinsmen in their homelands, asking them to bring

pressure on the warring parties to stop the senseless killing

of innocent and defenceless people of Rivers State for a

war the seek no part of. The petition was said to be a

landmark document that established to the world that not

all Eastern Nigeria region was part of the ideology called

“Biafra”, and dashed the claims of Ojukwu that he was

supported by all ethnic group of the region. Following the

petition, the international community mounted pressure on

Ojukwu to forfeit his struggle and negotiate for peace,

which led to an asylum window for Ojukwu’s capitulation a

few months after. 39 Likes 3 Shares