http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/paris-terror-attacks-belgian-arrested-7201269
202
20
Accused: It is alleged that Gelel Attar is the Belgian national arrested in Morocco

The man arrested in Morocco for allegedly having "direct links" to the horrific Paris terror attacks has been named as Gelel Attar, according to French media.

The 34-year-old is allegedly being held by police after he police swooped on him in Casablanca three days ago.

It is claimed Attar, who is a Belgian national, fought in Syria with the al-Busra front before joining the Islamic State.

His name and picture were released by a number of media outlets in France - including TV network M6.

When news broke of a man having been arrested in connection with the horrific Paris attacks, many hoped it was Europe's most wanted man Salah Abdeslam.

This appears not to be the case and Abdeslam, 26, is still on the run.

Abdeslam, 26, a Belgian of Moroccan extraction, has been a fugitive since allegedly taking part in the Paris terrorist massacre in which 130 people died.

He is believed to have been smuggled back into Belgium by two friends in the hours after the attacks.

Read more: Paris terror attacks: Suspect Salah Abdeslam 'contacts defence lawyers as he prepares to hand himself in'

Getty

The Belgian newspaper Het Laastste Nieuws last week reported that Abdeslam has been in contact with lawyer Sven Mary, a leading Brussels barrister.

He is known to have returned to Belgium after evading police authorities but his whereabouts since had been a mystery until the reports about the failure to arrest him.

Reuters

Reuters

He is now the target of one of the largest manhunts in European history.

Police are thought to believe he may have escaped to Morocco.

Video loading Watch next Watch this video again Watch Next Click to play Tap to play The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

We'll be bringing you the very latest updates, pictures and video on this breaking news story.

For the latest news and breaking news visit Mirror.co.uk/news .

Get all the big headlines, pictures, analysis, opinion and video on the stories that matter to you.

Follow us on Twitter @DailyMirror - the official Daily Mirror & Mirror Online Twitter account - real news in real time.

We're also on Facebook/dailymirror - your must-see news, features, videos and pictures throughout the day from the Daily Mirror, Sunday Mirror and Mirror Online.