http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/715026/Marine-Le-Pen-French-immigration-policy-flawed-illegal-immigrants
130
13
GETTY Le Pen made the staggering claim that the vast majority of Syrian refugees were radical Islamists

The Front National leader made the staggering claim that the vast majority of Syrian refugees were “radical Islamists” and that as president she would not choose to welcome them. Mrs Le Pen also said that that the migrant crisis in Calais could only be solved if France made drastic changes to its existing immigration policy and took in less migrants. Speaking to French TV station BFM-TV, she said: “Asylum can only be granted to those who are being persecuted by their own government because of something they did or said.”

She added: “We’re going to dismantle the Jungle, OK, but where are these people going to go next?” Mrs Le Pen was speaking just hours after president Francois Hollande promised the Jungle camp would be destroyed by the end of the year during an official visit to Calais yesterday. According to Mrs Le Pen, the only way to stem the tide of migrants coming into France is for the country to regain control of its borders, and for the government to start sending migrants back to their home countries.

GETTY President Francois Hollande promised the Jungle camp would be destroyed by the end of the year

She said: “Illegal immigrants have no reason to stay in France, these people broke the law the minute they set foot on French soil.”

These people broke the law the minute they set foot on French soil Marine Le Pen

Mrs Le Pen also said that refugee camps should be built in the war-torn countries migrants claim to be fleeing, so that they could be sent home “safely”. In an attempt to come across as more approachable, the far-right candidate also said she understood why some French people had doubts over her ability to lead the country, and vowed to keep “all her promises”.

GETTY Mrs Le Pen said that refugee camps should be built in the war-torn countries migrants are fleeing

According to her, Front National would mark the end of a long period of “uncertainty” – if given the power and the means. She said: “We live in a world that is plagued by doubt, including fears over unemployment and the looming terror threat. I will give people their confidence back.”

Evacuation of Calais migrant camp Tue, June 21, 2016 A growing number of migrants seeking to reach Britain are trying to leave from the Belgium and France. Here are some of the scenes from the Calais migrant crisis in France... Play slideshow Photoshot 1 of 83 Mirants clash with police in Calais