http://www.ameripublications.com/turkey-s-erdogan-blames-us-for-sea-of-blood-in-region/86565
203
20
Turkey’s Erdogan Blames US for ‘Sea of Blood’ in Region

The PYD however, is a key force in USA efforts to root out the Islamic State group in Syria.

Militants stage a demonstration outside the Russian embassy in Paris, Wednesday, Feb. 10, 2016 to protest the Aleppo bombings and asking for an alternative peace plan to end the conflict in Syria. “This is not a new concern, as I said, that the Turks have proffered”.

One day later, de Mistura announced that the talks were suspended and would continue in late February.

Churkin said Russian Federation would welcome a discussion on a pause “as something leading to a long-term permanent cease-fire”.

Syria’s Government condemned the Turkish offensive on Sunday, urging the United Nations to intervene.

He said Turkish officials “are doing quite a lot” to ensure that Daesh fighters can not exploit the border, including building berms, increasing border patrols, improving intelligence sharing and carrying out cross-border artillery strikes, Anadolu Agency reports.

Earlier this week, the Greek website euro2day.gr reported that Erdogan told EU Commission president Jean-Claude Juncker at the G20 summit in Antalya: “We can open the doors to Greece and Bulgaria any time and put the refugees on buses”. “That is what we will talk about in Munich”.

Riad Hijab, chief coordinator of the main Western-backed Syrian opposition, told reporters he hoped to see progress quickly, including a “working group” to press ahead on the core issues.

Kerry also was holding talks with diplomats from Britain, France, Germany, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and Turkey to form a consensus on the cease-fire proposal.

Turkey, already home to more than 2.6 million Syrian refugees, has long pushed for the creation of a safe zone in northern Syria to protect displaced civilians without bringing them over the border into Turkey.

At NATO headquarters in Brussels, Carter tried to drum up support for accelerating the fight against the militants. The U.S. has countered with a demand for an immediate truce.

“With every refugee that we accept, in a way, we would be contributing to this ethnic cleansing aim”, Davutoglu said. NATO General Secretary Jens Stoltenberg said the organization was “directing the standing maritime group to move into the Aegean without delay and start maritime surveillance activities”.

A few coalition countries have made promises of increased support in recent days. “Today, we will try what has not been achieved so far especially, to get better supplies to people locked in Syria and link this to first steps in a significant reduction of violence”. Canada will keep two surveillance planes in the region and conduct aerial refueling missions.

BEIRUT (AP) – Kurdish fighters helped by Russian airstrikes launched an attack in northern Syria on Wednesday in an attempt to capture a military air base held by Syrian insurgents, while an global aid group warned that the health system in parts of the north is close to collapse.

The fighters include Christians, Arabs and about 500 foreign fighters, Kordsh said, adding that some groups in Aleppo and Idlib pledged allegiance to the SDF last month.

“In the past we stopped people at the gates to Europe, we stopped their buses at Edirne”.

Abdul-Jabbar Abu Thabet, a local rebel commander in the Aleppo province, said Thursday that Mannagh air base fell to the People’s Protection Units, or YPG, and their allies after fierce battles.