http://asbarez.com/144364/azeri-pogroms-remembered-26-years-later/
202
20
Armenian woman left abused following the Azeri pogroms. (Source: Public Radio of Armenia) Family affected by Baku Pogroms. (Source: Public Radio of Armenia) A second family affected by the Azeri massacres. (Source: Public Radio of Armenia) Azeri troops with tanks in the streets of Baku (Source: Public Radio of Armenia) Families fleeing with belongings after massacres. (Source: Public Radio of Armenia)

YEREVAN (Public Radio of Armenia) — Today, we remember the massacre of Armenians in Baku that started on this day 26 years ago. Those guilty for the events of 1990 have not been punished and the exact number of victims still remains unknown. What’s obvious, however, is that the real number considerably exceeds the official data.

The events in Baku 26 years ago were a real genocide committed against the Armenian population. Dozens of Armenians were killed in Baku between January 13 and 20. They were robbed of their property and exiled.

“More than a quarter of century after the massacre, the events have not been properly assessed,” President of the Assembly of Azerbaijani Armenians Grigory Ayvazyan told reporters today.

“The neighboring country glorifies the organizers and perpetrators of the crime. Even today killing an Armenian is not seen as a crime in Azerbaijan. Azerbaijan brings up generations on the example of cutthroats and murderers,” he said.

“The massacre of Armenians is a serious counterargument for all those, who try to imagine Artsakh under Azerbaijani jurisdiction. In this case, the reoccurrence of ethnic cleansings will be unavoidable. Remembering Baku and Sumgait, we’ll not allow the same in Artsakh,” sociologist Aharon Adibekyan said.

According to him, the book titled “Armenophobia in Azerbaijan”, which tells about the Armenian massacres in Baku and Sumgait and their consequences will soon be released since it was recently translated into English. “We must make it clear to the world who we have to deal with in the face of Azerbaijan,” said Adibekyan.