http://www.intifada-palestine.com/2016/03/psychological-foundings-suicide-bombers-palestinian-approach/
202
20
In early 1998, I was asked by a Palestinian “friend” if I can do an “academic” research for a Palestinian “Human Rights” organization about the suicide bombers. They were looking for an “academician” who can formulate a “coherent” study of the “suicide bombers”. My “friend” told me that the “offer” (as if talking of a business deal) is so generous and all the expenses are covered plus a huge amount of money… and all is “academic research”….. I wrote of that here explaining the reasons why I refuse that “fat” offer, but this time I am more into the founding mentality of the “suicide bombers” !!

…………………………

The ever first “suicide bomber” here in Palestine is highly appreciated by almost everyone and looked at as a “divine God”. I didn’t meet him personally, but as a child I was repeatedly told of his story that is filled with heroism and horror, with appreciation and owe. No one knows exactly the history of this “elusive” man and whether he was raised in a poor or rich family, or where he came from; a city, a village or a refugee camp or even whether he was abused as a child or not, but his name is always followed by the word “The Almighty” as if that killer was a son of God as lots attribute to him in crazy moments when talking of his “heroism” fervently.

I always wondered how a children mass murderer can be appreciated in such a way and even “worshiped” as a divine “hero”. I believe most of the stories attributed to this “hero” (until finally he “bombed” himself in that damn party) are just false legends to glorify him in the eyes of others- specially his “worshipers- to induce them to follow his sample and “bomb” themselves to kill the enemy even if that “enemy” was a child, or a group of children enjoying a party with their happy dancing parents.

For your surprise, I do appreciate this man as a legend that can never die. He was- as I was told by numerous people in different versions of his story- a real fighter, a relentless foe that was the #1 wanted “fugitive” until he was caught finally by deception. He, alone, killed or was responsible for killing hundreds (in other version thousands) of the enemy soldiers, men, women, and an unknown number of children, and even livestock either accidentally or intentionally.

This “legendary hero” faced a huge army- probably, the third or the forth army of the world- until he was caught finally by deception through entrapping him by his girlfriend, and other say it was his first cousin with whom he was living in sin, but she was a whore and collaborated with the enemy.

He was caught, he was tortured to death and faced all kinds of calamities by his jailors who didn’t want to assassinate him- like they did to lots of others- but wanted to humiliate him intentionally to take off his inflated ego of pride. He spent long years in the jail and got weak and even lost his sight by a special drug into his food, but others say that he was blinded intentionally by plucking his eyes, as no one saw him for real after he was captured and enjailed, and later “bombed” himself into unrecognized pieces mixed with the flesh of men, women and children he blasted.

The loin can never be tamed and this “Almighty” hero can never be humiliated and he got the chance to “bomb” himself later after long years of intentional humiliation. His jailors were celebrating their victory over him and nobody paid attention to that blind man who was raging with fury to kill; in the temple where the Philistines were joyfully dancing with their wives and children, drinking and thanking God in their temple for their happy life and triumph over their invader enemies.

This “hero” or “butcher,” the “jewish” killer of children didn’t care for nothing- not the sacred place, nor the happy festive gathering and even the masses of giggling children- but only thought of his injured pride, his thirst for a bloody revenge that would kill all. He crept (aided by a Palestinian collaborator apparently) into the center of the of the joyful Palestinian temple and pulled the pillars to kill the rejoicing gathering inside the sacred temple, and to “bomb” himself along with the flesh of the Palestinian children and women.

That was the jewish Samson and his suicidal option !!

Have you ever questioned that the ever first “suicide bomber” was a jew? And that he committed his massacre against the joyfully celebrating Palestinians “civilians” in their sacred temple? Why shouldn’t any nation of the world appreciate and even worship their “suicide bombers” like the jews do to this “butcher”?

It is not only that; Have you ever questioned that the ever first collective suicide was committed also by jews, in the myth of Masada?

Who intoduced the car bombing into the Middle East as early as 1940s? Wasnt it the zionist terrorist groups of Lehi, Irgun and Stern?

The jews were and still are the forefathers of the suicide mentality whether it was individual against a joyful party or collective suicide to avoid being killed or taken slaves and humiliated !!

Far away from the starter “butcher” of history, suicide “bombing” that is held by heroic fighters has been known in all nations and also highly appreciated to the degree to elevate the “suicide bombers” into a sacred level in heavens of in temples.

In WW2. What they were calling the “suicide bombers” against the Nazi occupiers done by jews and nonjews? Heroes? Bombing cafe-shops and trains where they killed some Nazis and lots of other innocent people like a poor waiter or a loving couple?

There is no single innocent zionist in Palestine; they are all in all colonizers living on the Palestinian dead bodies and on their land and enjoying the homes of the natives after killing or ethnically cleansing them !! What did the Japanese call the kamikaze pilots? Butchers who bombed themselves in American cities, or divine heroes who sacrificed their lives for their people and country?

As the jews still worship their killers (who were ordered to kill men, women, children and even animals by the jewish “god” in their Talmud) even after 2000 years, they don’t have the right to occupy others again, humiliate them and stigmatize their freedom-fighters as “terrorist” … who inflects the ever first crime doesn’t have the right to judge others, and an occupied and tortured people do have the right to use all the available, possible and even impossible means to get free !

Probably the Muslim nation was the last to use this resort or mean for fighting… who in heavens likes to bomb himself or kill others? But have you ever questioned yourself why? Why the Japanese Kamikaze fighters flew all that distance to shell “civilian” Americans living peacefully on their own homeland? Hadn’t the Japanese been invaded and killed by thousands before taking that Jewish Samson option? Why? Why these heroic pilots are still being appreciated and even elevated to sacristy after they killed themselves and lots of other “innocent” Americans? Why the jews still worship their mass-murderers of children like Samson, Joshua and Shaul?

The problem is that the jewish rabbis are still faithful to their brutal god and dictate the jewish settlers in detailed books how to kill the children of the native Palestinians !!

Take a moment to think of the Tamil Tigers, or the Khmer Rouge who were known to have consecutive “suicide bombing” operations in the same day … Were they drugged to do so? Was Samson drugged to “bomb” himself among the Palestinians dancers? If you think so, You don’t know the intoxicating national pride then, nor the aspiration to freedom out of the national humiliation !

Haven’t you thought of the intentionally invaded, devastated and humiliated Muslim nations? Haven’t you heard of the American lie of the Iraqi WMD- turning a blind eye to the zionist nuclear arsenal- and promising the “heaven of democracy” they will bring? Haven’t you heard of the jewish lie of the “god promise” in which it was the first time for them to ever inter Palestine and annihilate their natives based on the damn lie of a land that not theirs in the first place?

Busted within their own dirty racist discourse:

In the words of top Israeli Rabbi Ovadia Yosef, “Goyim were born only to serve us. Without that, they have no place in the world; only to serve the People of Israel.” Likewise, Rabbi Ya’acov Perin has publicly stated: “One million Arabs are not worth a Jewish fingernail.” Shocking? It shouldn’t be. This is Talmudic law as well. The Talmud makes it very clear that the life of a non-Jew has no value, and that gentiles exist only to serve Jews. Sanhedrin 59a: “Murdering Goyim is like killing a wild animal.” Abodah Zara 26b: “Even the best of the Gentiles should be killed.” Baba Necia 114, 6: “The Jews are human beings, but the nations of the world are not human beings but beasts.” Midrasch Talpioth, p. 225-L: “Jehovah created the non-Jew in human form so that the Jew would not have to be served by beasts. The non-Jew is consequently an animal in human form, and condemned to serve the Jew day and night.” This is directly from the Talmud, and these are just a few of many examples. Jewish divine law makes it very clear: the “Palestinians” not only have no right to any land, but the “Palestinians” are not even human beings and thus have no right to even live at all. The “Palestinians” are worthless subhuman beasts and vermin. Jews are human beings, but gentiles are subhuman beasts whose only purpose is to serve the people of Israel.

The mental structure of the Zionists is based on the mass-murdering and genocide of the butcher Joshua, the ethnic cleansing of the bloody Shaul, the suicide mentality of Samson and the lie of “closeness” in which their “god” promised them Canaan and ordered them to annihilate the natives including the children and even animal… is there a more bloody “god” than the jewish one?

By: Sami, the bedouin