http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/europe/paris-attacks-safe-houses-used-to-prepare-for-isis-massacres-uncovered-in-belgium-a6808966.html
202
20
Three flats and houses where the Paris attackers prepared for the shootings and suicide bombings that killed 130 people in November have been uncovered in Belgium.

They link Salah Abdeslam, the only member of the Isis cell believed to be still at large, militant Bilal Hadfi, suspected mastermind Abdelhamid Abaaoud and unidentified accomplices using three false identities.

New findings released by the federal prosecutor in Belgium, where four of the attackers had lived, reveal that preparations for the atrocity dated back to September.

Timeline of Paris attacks

On the first of the month, a person using a fake identity in the name of Fernando Castillo rented a flat in the Brussels district of Schaerbeek for one year, paying the landlord in cash.

The home, in Rue Henri Bergé, may have been the bomb-making factory for the suicide vests that the attackers would go on to kill themselves with at the Bataclan, Stade de France and bars and restaurants.

A police search on 10 December found “material that can be used to fabricate explosives” precision scales, traces of TATP (acetone peroxide), waist belts, as well as a drawing representing a person wearing one of the devices.

Abdeslam’s fingerprint was found at the scene, as well as DNA traces of Bilal Hadfi, a 20-year-old Frenchman who blew himself up outside the Stade de France after being denied entry.

Salah Abdeslam, left, and his accomplice at a petrol station between Paris and Brussels

Two days after the Schaerbeek flat was rented, another home was rented for a year in the city of Charleroi, this time using the pseudonym Ibrahim Maaroufi.

Fingerprints discovered in a forensics search in Rue du Fort on 9 December showed Hadfi had been there alongside Abdelhamid Abaaoud, the Belgian Isis militant suspected of orchestrating the attack.

He was killed on 18 November during a police raid on another safe-house in the Paris suburb of Saint-Denis, where French prosecutors said he was planning another attack in the La Defence business district.

Abdelhamid Abaaoud boasted of his escape from authorities in Belgium following a failed terrorist attack in an interview published in Isis' propaganda magazine in February

Abaaoud was not initially believed to be directly involved in the Paris attacks but his fingerprints were found on a Kalashnikov left in a Seat car abandoned in Montreuil, suggesting he was among the gunmen targeting bars and restaurants.

Belgian authorities also believe preparations were also made at a house in Auvelais, a small town outside Charleroi, in Namur province.

It was rented later, on 5 October, but like the others was taken for one year by a person paying in cash and using a fake name, this time of Soufiane Kayal.

That identity matches that used by one of the two people that Abdeslam picked up in Budapest on 9 September before apparently driving back to Belgium.

A house search conducted on 26 November found several mattresses, suggesting several members of the cell stayed there.

A police van is parked during a police intervention in Auvelais, on November 26, 2015.

Belgian investigators are also focusing on the hire cars used to ferry attackers around.

A Seat Leon, which was later used during the shooting attacks in Paris, had been parked near the homes in both Charleroi and Auvelais.

A man named by Belgian prosecutors as Mohamed B, a suspected accomplice charged with aiding “terrorist murders” and participating in Isis activities, also rented a BMW that drove to all three safe-houses.

“Numerous traces retrieved during the three searches are still being examined,” spokesperson Eric Van der Sijpt said.

Meanwhile, the hunt for Abdeslam, whose brother Brahim blew himself up on the Boulevard Voltaire, continues.

In pictures: Paris attacks







25 show all In pictures: Paris attacks















































1/25 Paris attacks French police with protective shields walk in line near the Bataclan concert hall Reuters

2/25 Paris attacks Rescuers evacuate an injured person on Boulevard des Filles du Calvaire AFP

3/25 Paris attacks French Vigipirate troops mobilize next to Place de la Bastille AFP

4/25 Paris attacks French soldiers mobilize near to the Place de la Bastille AFP

5/25 Paris attacks Wounded people are evacuated outside the scene of a hostage situation at the Bataclan theatre EPA

6/25 Paris attacks People react as they gather to watch the scene near the Bataclan concert hall Reuters

7/25 Paris attacks French police secure the area outside a cafe near the Bataclan concert hall Reuters

8/25 Paris attacks Rescuers workers evacuate victims near the Bataclan concert hall AFP

9/25 Paris attacks French Prime Minister Manuel Valls and French President Francois Hollande attending an emergency meeting at the Interior Ministry AFP

10/25 Paris attacks Spectators invade the pitch of the Stade de France after explosions were heard outside AP

11/25 Paris attacks A man lies on the ground as French police check his identity near the Bataclan concert hall Reuters

12/25 Paris attacks Police officers man a position close to the Bataclan theatre AFP

13/25 Paris attacks Wounded people are evacuated from the Stade de France in Paris EPA

14/25 Paris attacks Two men evacuate the Place de la Republique square in Paris as a police officer looks on AFP

15/25 Paris attacks Football fans are evacuated from the Stade de France stadium

16/25 Paris attacks An armed police officer Dan Gabriel

17/25 Paris attacks The Stade de France is evacuated after reports of an explosion

18/25 Paris attacks A member of the French fire brigade aids an injured individual near the Bataclan concert hall

19/25 Paris attacks Wounded people are evacuated from the Stade de France in Paris

20/25 Paris attacks Police are seen outside a cafe in 10th arrondissement of the French capital Paris,

21/25 Paris attacks Rescuers assist an injured man on Boulevard des Filles du Calvaire, close to the Bataclan concert hall AFP

22/25 Paris attacks The scene at a restaurant in 10th arrondissement

23/25 Paris attacks The Bataclan theatre - where around 100 people are thought be held hostage

24/25 Paris attacks The Stade de France as it was evacuated

25/25 Paris attacks Forensic experts inspect the site of an attack outside the Stade de France stadium in Saint-Denis AFP

An explosives belt was found dumped in a bin in the southern Paris suburb of Montrouge 10 days after the atrocity, near where Abdeslam was traced to on the night.

The discovery fuelled speculation that he was supposed to be among the suicide bombers but abandoned the plan and fled to Brussels, where two men, now accused of aiding terrorism, drove him in the early hours of the following morning.

An international arrest warrant is out for Abdeslam, who friends say could also be hiding from Isis after he reportedly told them he had “gone too far” and regretted his actions.



New CCTV images have been released showing him in northern France on the morning after the attacks wiht Hamza Attou, who drove him home.