http://china.org.cn/world/2016-03/23/content_38090884.htm
202
20
视频播放位置 下载安装Flash播放器

Russia's air campaign in Syria, mainly in the coastal city of Latakia, has restored security and safety back to the majority of Syrians living under government control.

For much of the Latakians, particularly in the countryside, Russia's help came right on time, as their towns were dangerously threatened by approaching rebels, who executed massacres in Latakia's countryside during a wide scale offensive in 2013.

Throughout Syria's five-year-old conflict, several rebel groups, mainly the al-Qaida-linked Nusra Front, succeeded in capturing key strategic mountainous locations in the Latakian countryside close to Turkey serving as the rebels' supply route.

Syria's army faced extreme difficulty when attempting to recapture these areas, such as Salma city and the towns of Rabia and Kinsaba beside Turkey, due to the rough terrain of the area.

However, Russia's air force advent into Syria last September, and their presence at the Hmaimim base in the Latakian countryside, supported the Syrian army's recapture of over 90 percent of the Latakian countryside, getting close enough to almost ejecting the rebels from less crucial regions.

"The Russians came right on time as Latakia faced danger," one resident from the town of Saharrifa told Xinhua.

Saharrifa is a predominantly Alewite town in the north of Latakia, inhabited by pro-government residents. Saharrifa is close to Salma, Rabia and also Hmaimim.

People in Saharrifa said they witnessed heavy Russian flights over their town, from which other hotspots could be spotted at a distance.

"The rebels were a mere three kilometers away from us," another resident said.

With the threat so close to home, Saharrifa residents said they were soothed by Russia's intervention.

"We became less anxious when Russia's decided to join the battle against Syria's radical groups. Russia's air force came to fight those terrorist groups. We felt safe as the warplanes were stationed in Latakia," Nizar Skaif, a Saharrifa resident told Xinhua.

Following Russia's decision to withdraw parts of its air force last week, Skaif added: "we continue to feel safe because I believe Russia's airstrikes achieved its goals and repelled the rebels."

Munther Ismail, another Saharrifa resident, said "the terrorists were only three kilometers away from us, and with Russia's support we felt secure once more."

Ismail said that rebel attacks against Latakia and elsewhere have substantially decreased during Russia's six-month-old air campaign in Syria, adding that Russia also managed to seal areas used by rebels to infiltrate the Latakian countryside.

"Russia's military campaign in Syria was extremely valuable to us because we felt safe once more," he said.

Ismail said he is optimistic regarding Russia's withdrawal, "because most of the targets were destroyed, and I trust that Russia can support us once more anytime we need it."

However, the optimism of the adults was not shared by the youth of Saharrifa.

Judi Deeb, an 18-year-old girl, said she wished Russia wouldn't leave after the results they achieved in Syria.

"When Russia first entered Syria I didn't have any positive or negative feelings about their arrival, but after we saw the results they achieved, we became very attached to them and want them to stay longer," she told Xinhua.

"Just like the youth of the Latakian countryside, we grew to love them. We were so impressed by the results they achieved and really wish they would stay longer," she added.

Deeb said when the people in Saharrifa first heard the news of Russia's withdrawal they were a "little afraid but when we heard that they left behind a base and could return whenever needed, our fears abated."

Her cousin, Muhammad Ali, said Russia's decision to enter Syria was as surprising as the withdrawal one.

"We felt good because Russia previously vetoed in favor of Syria, and our optimism was exonerated due to the considerable results achieved by Russia," he said.

"Russia repelled the rebels. We trust Russia's leadership and we thank them for what they did," Ali said.

The Latakian countryside was considered one of the most important Syrian battlefields, and Russia's air force provided crucial support to Syria's army as it recaptured this mountainous region.

Last week, Russia's leadership announced it was withdrawing substantial numbers of its air force from Syria.

Syria's government said the decision was in coordination with Damascus, adding that it was owing to developments achieved on the ground by Syria's army and the currently stable truce.

Analysts interpreted the move as a measure to accelerate a political solution for Syria's crisis, especially since representatives from Syria's government and opposition groups are currently holding talks in Geneva in an attempt to solve Syria's five-year-old conflict.