http://article.wn.com/view/2016/01/20/isis_destroys_oldest_christian_monastery_in_iraq_1400yearold/
202
20
Using satellite imagery, evidence has been collected to confirm Islamic State forces have destroyed Iraq’s oldest Christian monastery, demolishing the 1,400-year-old site to rubble, the Inquisitr reports.

The hill where St. Elijah’s Monastery in Mosul once stood is now a piece of debris-laden land. Satellite images released by the Associated Press Wednesday show the one-and-a-half millennia-old sacred structure – which prior to ISIS takeover of the land suffered only minor damage – became another victim of the terror group’s targeted destruction of historic and heritage sites the group strongly considers heretical, the report said.

The historically significant and partially restored 27,000-square-foot monastery had 26 distinct rooms, including a sanctuary and chapel.

Prior to the wars, generations of monks regularly tucked candles in the nooks and crevices, prayed in the chapel and worshipped at the altar. In fact, U.S. forces stationed in Iraq before the arrival of ISIS forces used the monastery as a place of quiet solitude and worship.

Historians lived in constant fear ISIS would eventually destroy the Christian monastery, just as it had destroyed other sacred sites in the recent past. They fear that such terror tactics and wanton destruction are an indirect way to rid the land of other religions.





Related Tweets

Iraq-based Catholic priest Rev Paul Thabit Habib said of the destruction, “Our Christian history in Mosul is being barbarically leveled. We see it as an attempt to expel us from Iraq, eliminating and finishing our existence in this land.”

The actual demolition of the monastery may have taken place sometime between August and September 2014. However, since any news from the region is heavily censored and delayed, it is only now that the confirmation of the act has come through. ISIS had taken control of the region in June that year and had immediately begun tearing apart such shrines, the report said.

– WN.com, Jack Durschlag