https://beijingtoday.com.cn/2016/01/private-hospitals-hire-shady-solicitors-to-snatch-business/
202
20
A search on WeChat for “people nearby” within Beijing’s Fourth Ring reveals numerous people branding themselves as andrology or gynecology consultants. Most of the accounts contain alluring avatars, purportedly female doctors or nurses.

But behind the pictures are well-trained hospital salespeople who do their utmost to trick hapless users into visiting their pricey private hospitals.

Beijing Yingcai Hospital Management was revealed to be training more than 600 employees to work as hospital solicitors and recruit clients through social networking apps such as WeChat, QQ and Momo.

“None of us are doctors. We are instructed to trick patients into visiting the hospitals, where we can empty their accounts,” said Fang Hui (pseudonym), a former employee of the company.

Fang said he quit the job on account of his conscience. But there are more than 400 employees still continuing his previous role.

For each patient introduced by the company, the hospital pays a 100 yuan to 300 yuan commission fee. The hospital bills patients an average of 6,000 yuan in unspecified medical fees, often for treating fabricated diseases.

Half of the hospital’s profits are used to bid for top search spots on popular search engines such as Baidu, Sougou and 360. Fang said some 300 employees in the company worked as scalpers and the other 100 focused on bidding for placement.

Beijing Yingcai Hospital Management has been cooperating with Jianguo Hospital, Changhong Hospital, Shuguang Hospital and Tongji Hospital, all of which specialize in male health problems, according to Beijing News.

Fang said the marketing model has spread to private hospitals nationwide. Mobile networks offer a cost-effective way to seek customers compared to using offline recruiters.

That private hospitals are able to use such a sales force effectively reflects a basic problem in China’s medical system, said Liu Guoen, a professor at Peking University’s National School of Development.

Public hospitals are always overcrowded with many patients lining up out of the door. Many turn to the Internet seeking advice on alternative ways to see a doctor, Liu said.