http://iusbpreface.com/2016/01/21/pakistan-holds-day-of-mourning-after-attack-on-university-97626/
202
20
Or the attackers may have been targeting the university's namesake, Abdul Ghaffar Khan, a lifelong activist and contemporary of Gandhi who shared his commitment to nonviolent resistance of British rule and opposed the 1947 partition of India and Pakistan.

 Responsibility for the attack was claimed by the "Jackal Group" of the Pakistani Taliban (TTP).

Four of the gunmen have been killed by security forces and the army has contained the militants to two blocks inside the university, a spokesman for the army said on twitter.

Military spokesman Lt Gen Asim Bajwa told reporters that major breakthroughs had been made in identifying the attackers but did not name them.

Explosions were heard as at least four gunmen entered the Bacha Khan University in Charsadda using thick winter fog as cover to break into the site.

The army has been pounding militant hideouts in the tribal areas on the border with Afghanistan since June 2014, disrupting operations for the Pakistani Taliban militants.

"Most of the students and staff were in classes when the firing began", Khan said.

The university attack was grimly reminiscent of the December 2014 massacre at an army public school in nearby Peshawar that killed 150, mostly children. It's not yet clear how numerous dead are attackers and how many are civilians.

"They fired directly at" the professor, sociology student Muhammad Daud said, describing Mr Husain as "a real gentleman and a respectable teacher".

The majority of the student victims died at a hostel for young men where security forces cornered the attackers.

Police, soldiers and special forces launched a ground and air operation at the university in a bid to shut down the assault, as television images showed female students fleeing the campus. Terrorist attacks could not weaken the government's resolve to establish complete peace in and eliminate terrorism from the country.

World leaders on Wednesday condemned the deadly attack on Pakistan's Bacha Khan University, expressing alarm over another attack on an educational institution in Pakistan.

The university teaches more than 3,000 students and was hosting an extra 600 visitors on Wednesday for a poetry recital, according to its vice chancellor Fazal Rahim.

"While condemning the cowardly attack of the terrorists, the Prime Minister said that those killing innocent students and citizens have no faith and religion". Clearly instead of attacking government installations, they are looking at soft targets like schools and Universities with the anger against the terrorists growing in the rest of Pakistan.