http://www.newindianexpress.com/editorials/Kashmiri-Pandits-and-The-Valley-of-Fear/2016/01/21/article3237159.ece
203
20
Twenty six years after tens of thousands of Kashmiri Pandits fled from their homeland on January 19, 1990, their return to the Valley is still in the realm of imagination. Political parties have been paying lip service to the uprooted people, many of whom still live in miserable conditions. The BJP had issued a vision document, which had certainly instilled confidence among them, but there are few takers for the idea of resettling them in separate, protected enclaves. Though the exodus is identified with one date, the process began a long time ago. For instance, the Pandits, who constituted 15 per cent of the population in 1941, declined to 5 per cent by the time the exodus happened.

Much water has flowed down the Jhelum since the mass migration took place. There are different theories on why it occurred. Nonetheless, the fact remains that no community of people would leave their hearth and home without fear of uncertainty. They could have stayed on only at grave risk to their lives and property. In fact, many had to pay with their lives for their bravery. It is a moot point how many of the Pandits would like to go back to the Valley and reclaim their property. There is now a generation of Pandits, who were born and brought up outside of the Valley. Return to the Valley may not, therefore, appeal to some of them.

But, there is no doubt that the Pandits have suffered a lot. It was a failure of the government of the day that it could not stop the ethnic cleansing resorted to by some Muslim organisations. It also did nothing to ensure that the Pandits were able to reclaim their houses and property within the shortest possible time. Over the years, many of them have got used to their life outside of the state with their children and grandchildren losing connections with J&K. All the same, it is the duty of the state to facilitate the return of those who want to return. Others are entitled to receive compensation for the losses they suffered. Since gated colonies exist even in Delhi, those who want to live in enclaves should be provided the necessary facilities. It’s unfortunate that political parties in Jammu and Kashmir fear separatists and their poisonous campaign while speaking on the issue of the Pandits. The Centre and the State government should not only announce relief packages for the Pandits but also try to create a conducive atmosphere for their return.