http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3789954/Meet-American-Zika-baby-parents-want-best-start-life-bringing-violent-Honduras-not-want-illegals.html
130
13
The full story of the first baby born with Zika-related brain defects in the continental U.S. can be revealed.

The parents of three-month Darah Girón have told DailyMail.com of the ordeal, heartbreak - and hope - of having their daughter born with microcephaly - and how they want her to have a life in America, but are currently living in their violent homeland because they do not want to be illegal immigrants.

They are the first parents of an American-born baby to go public, and did so to give hope to other parents with Zika-affected babies, and educate people about the reality of having a baby with the condition.

The Giróns spoke after the Centers for Disease Control warned of an explosion in the number of pregnant women affected by Zika because of its spread around the world and even into parts of the U.S.

Darah was born on May 31 at Hackensack University Medical Center, New Jersey, to Claudia and Christian Girón.

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO

First-born: Claudia Girón holds baby Darah, who was born with microcephaly after exposure to the Zika virus. She tells DailyMail.com of her love for her daughter, who she says is 'a blessing'

Family love: Darah is Claudia and Christian Girón's first daughter, and a sister for Andre, six

Challenge: Darah Girón is now living in her parents' native Honduras, where they are experiencing far less care for her than they believe would be the case in the U.S.

She and her parents are now living in their native Honduras, but they hope to move legally to the United States to give her a quality of life and care which is impossible in the Central American country. Darah is an American citizen due to her birth in the U.S.

Both parents had contracted Zika when Claudia was 14 weeks pregnant but it was only in the final months that doctors delivered the devastating news that their baby had Zika-related microcephaly.

The rare, incurable neurological condition causes the head to be smaller than that of other babies, and prevents the brain from developing normally.

Claudia, 31, told DailyMail.com: 'The doctor said this word, microcephaly, and I didn't know what it meant.

'When the doctors gave us the news and confirmed that Darah was diagnosed with microcephaly it was overwhelming.

'You feel like the whole world is falling apart, there's nothing you can do.

'The only information we received was negative and we couldn't imagine how we would cope.'

'It was so stressful, no one could tell me what was going to happen to our child.'

The couple are from San Pedro Sula, an industrial city in Honduras with a propensity for violence.

Last year, it was named the most dangerous city in the world with an average of three murders per day. The Cortés region, where the city is located, has one of the highest rates of the Zika virus in the country.

Claudia and Christian, 30, met at a movie theater as teenagers and married in 2010. Claudia works from home for the electronics company, Epson, and Christian is employed at a local newspaper. Their oldest son, André, is six years old.

Claudia, speaking in Spanish, said: 'André is the only grandchild and we felt it was time for another baby. I found out I was pregnant last October. We were so happy and at first everything was fine.'

The couple received no warnings from their doctor about the Zika virus but they had heard about the growing number of cases in Brazil.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention announced a connection between the Zika virus and birth defects in April.

Claudia vividly remembers the day that Christian fell ill. 'It was December 5 and he was really sick - he had a rash all over his body, a high fever, his eyes were streaming and his muscles aching. He knew he had Zika.'

New born: Darah seen just a few days after her birth, at Hackensack, New Jersey, where a special team looked after her around the clock

Progress: Darah's parents have charted each moth that has gone past. She returned to the Honduras before her one-month picture was taken

Growing: At two months the family pictured her on a blanket with both her names on it

Sleeping peacefully: Darah seemed content as she marked threee months since her birth

Claudia, who was about fourteen weeks pregnant, began to feel sick a few days later. She had been tested for Chikungunya and Dengue fever but there was no test in Honduras for the Zika virus.

She said: 'I had a slight rash and fever but I was not as sick as Christian. As a precaution, I went to the hospital and I was admitted for a few days.

'The doctor told me, "You have Zika but it didn't hit you that hard. Since you didn't have a high fever and did not have the rash all over, we don't think it's going to affect your pregnancy." I was given allergy medicine and told to go home and relax.'

She remained concerned and paid a visit to her gynecologist who agreed with the hospital's diagnosis and said that her pregnancy was unlikely to be affected.

The gynecologist did not perform ultrasounds, so the couple decided to pay for one at a private clinic. A few weeks later, a neurologist delivered the devastating news that their baby could be suffering from microcephaly.

Claudia called her mother, who is a microbiologist, in a state of panic. 'She tried to reassure me, saying that it wasn't certain that Zika was linked to microcephaly and because there was no test, the doctor could be wrong.'

The couple decided to seek a second opinion and visited a specialist, Dr Monica Garcia, for another ultrasound and more tests in January.

Loving brother: Andre, the Girón's elder son, poses with his little sister for a picture for the family album

Family support: The Giróns tell DailyMail.com they are being helped by both their parents with Darah, but really want to find a way to move legally to the U.S. so she has the best of care

Uncertain prospects: Darah's future development is unclear, Claudia said. 'The neurologist told us because the link between Zika and microcephaly is new, they cannot refer to previous cases. We are just going to have to wait for things to happen and deal with them.'

Medical help: Claudia said: 'Darah needs a lot of checkups and perhaps more treatment, and we could get that in the U.S. But number one, I didn't want to be illegal in the U.S., because people who stay become undocumented. How would we live?'

'Dr Garcia told us our baby had microcephaly but she couldn't say for sure that it was caused by the Zika virus. She told us that no one could give us a 100 per cent diagnosis and we would only know in the seventh month.

'The news devastated us. I cried in the doctor's office. I couldn't control myself. I hoped that it was a misdiagnosis, that they'd got it wrong. What's going to happen down the line?

'I kept asking myself what we had done wrong. We are religious, we serve God and go to church, why did this happen to us?

'We had waited so long to have this second baby and now we had this medical problem. It was very hard for us to grasp the news that it had happened to the child that we had planned and I was saddened at the consequences for her.

'Was she going to be alive for one day? One month? There was no way of knowing. I lived in hope that it was the wrong diagnosis.'

Claudia said she found it hard to cope but tried to carry on as normal for her son.

I told myself not to cry anymore over what had happened.I know medically, there is nothing that can be done for my daughter, that no doctor or procedure can ever cure her. I am her mother. I had to give her strength from the moment she is born.' Claudia Girón

'We cried every day. I cried all the time. When I would go to pick up my son from school he would see me crying, and he'd say "mom what's wrong? Why are you crying?"

'And I just couldn't explain it all to him, everything that was going on. So I would just make something up.'

The couple said they reached a turning point by drawing strength from their Christian faith; they are members of an evangelical church.

'I told myself not to cry anymore over what had happened,' Claudia said. 'I know medically, there is nothing that can be done for my daughter, that no doctor or procedure can ever cure her.

'It is about seeking out God, reading the Lord’s word and seeking his presence.

'That gave me strength to say enough and to believe what he can do for my daughter. We began to come to terms with it.

'I am her mother. I had to give her strength from the moment she is born.'

Dr Garcia confessed to Claudia that this was her first case of microcephaly but she began to call doctors in Brazil to learn more. Claudia planned to have her C-section birth under the care of Dr Garcia.

'She really looked after us and did everything she could to be prepared for the birth,' Claudia said.

The couple said when they found out Claudia was pregnant, they planned a family trip to the U.S. to visit relatives but with their baby's microcephaly diagnosis, everything changed.

They decided Claudia should go for two weeks to spend time with family as soon as her maternity leave began, while Christian remained in Honduras with André to save money for the new baby.

She flew to the U.S. on May 22, entering on a tourist visa and staying with relatives in New Jersey.

She said: 'My return flight to Honduras was booked for June 8 – in time for André's sixth birthday which I didn't want to miss.

'I felt fine when I arrived in America but after a few days, I had some pain. I went to the doctor and they asked if I knew that my baby had microcephaly.

'Until that point, I had lived in hope that I had been misdiagnosed in Honduras. Now it was finally confirmed.'

Claudia was treated at Hackensack University Medical Center where doctors became interested in her case.

Family happiness: Claudia and Christian recently celebrated their wedding anniversary, but are now looking forward to the future with trepidation, because of their daughter's condition

Getting ready for the arrival: Christian and Andre mark the run-up to the birth of Darah with her mother, Claudia. She says the family's Christian faith helped her accept the Zika diagnosis

'Because it's a university hospital and undertakes research, they asked if they could do some tests and an examination and I agreed,' she said.

She was given an appointment at the hospital on May 31. 'When they did the preliminary exam, the doctor said there was no amniotic fluid and that I must have an emergency C-section.

'I was terrified that my baby would die and that I was in a foreign country without my husband.'

Claudia said that she felt very fortunate to have decided to accept the hospital appointment.

'It saved my baby girl,' she said.

Darah was born via C-section on May 31, exactly one month ahead of her due date. Extra medical teams were standing by in case of complications following the birth but the newborn surprised them all.

'She came out healthy and fighting, which no one was expecting,' Claudia said.

Darah spent a few precautionary days in intensive care due to her condition.

'Because of the shape of her head, the brain has been damaged, and she is going to face neurological problems, but we are not sure of the full extent yet,' Claudia said.

I was extremely worried that I was going to lose my visa because I believe that if you have a medical situation in the U.S. and you don't pay for it, they can cancel it. I told the hospital that I wanted to set up a payment plan for my baby's birth. Claudia Girón

'She might have some problems with hearing and sight on her right side but it will take up to a year until we know for sure.

'In the U.S. doctors told us she might have stomach problems but so far we haven't seen anything.

'The neurologist told us because the link between Zika and microcephaly is new, they cannot refer to previous cases. We are just going to have to wait for things to happen and deal with them.

'Other than those things she is a normal child. It's a blessing to have her.'

Claudia and Christian said they were very impressed with the doctors and nurses at Hackensack hospital.

'I was looked after very well,' she said. 'The doctors were always asking how I was. There was one nurse in particular, she was outstanding.

'She didn't speak Spanish but she went out of her way to help me understand what was going on and why certain things were happening.

'She made sure I would know how the best ways to deal with Darah.'

The couple said that they were frightened about what would happen because they were not U.S. citizens and yet their child was born in the country.

Claudia said: 'I want to be clear that I didn't go to America intending to have my child there, it wasn't my purpose. We did not want to break the rules and have the government cover our expenses, we were not looking for that at all.

'I was extremely worried that I was going to lose my visa because I believe that if you have a medical situation in the U.S. and you don't pay for it, they can cancel it.

'I told the hospital that I wanted to set up a payment plan for my baby's birth.'

Contented baby: While they wait for the ways in which microcephaly affects their daughter's development to become clear, the Giróns are trying to work out how to legally find lives in the U.S. so she receives better care

Gopeful. 'We are trying our best to get her physical therapy and medical attention in San Pedro Sula but it cannot be compared to the U.S.' Claudia said

As soon as Darah was stable enough to travel, the family began to make plans to return to Honduras.

Christian said: 'The doctors at the hospital were surprised as they had expected us to stay in the U.S. because we couldn't get the specialized treatment and the physiotherapy we needed. None of that exists in Honduras.'

Claudia added: 'Darah needs a lot of checkups and perhaps more treatment, and we could get that in the U.S.

'But number one, I didn't want to be illegal in the U.S., because people who stay become undocumented. How would we live? How would we support ourselves?

'And even though we live in a dangerous place, we have our jobs, our family, André has to go to school. We weren't going to leave everything behind.'

The couple say they would like to move their family to the U.S. in the future because of the excellent medical care available and opportunities for their daughter to live a more normal life.

'We want to go to the U.S. by doing everything the legal way and complying with all the laws. I want to be able to get a good job to be able to afford to be there, to pay my taxes,' Claudia said.

'Most of all, Darah will have more opportunities to develop, to become a more independent person and go to school.

'Sadly, on a medical level, we are so many years behind in Honduras. We are trying our best to get her physical therapy and medical attention in San Pedro Sula but it cannot be compared to the U.S.

'We do not have a school that specializes in this kind of disability, here she will face more limitations.'

The couple were in awe of the resources available to families with disabled children in the U.S.

'The hospital told us that they keep data on all the parents whose children have disabilities and there's a big network you can access for information and access to treatment.

'The medical staff know what others have done and they can follow-up. I know the medical treatment in the U.S. is not for free - and I don't want to get it for free - but I can work and give her a better chance.'

Christian arrived in the U.S. on June 18 and the couple both returned to San Pedro Sula on July 2.

They have since struggled to get access to the help their daughter needs.

Claudia said: 'It's very hard. I had to go knock on doors to explain our situation to get her into the Teletón charitable foundation, which provides physical therapy.

'There is no help for us in Honduras and since we have returned, we have never been approached by anyone to help us.

MICROCEPHALY: WHAT TO KNOW What is microcephaly? Microcephaly is a brain defect which can affect a fetus when a woman becomes infected with the Zika virus during pregnancy. Babies with microcephaly are born with smaller heads than other babies, which can cause their brains not to develop properly. Microcephaly can be an isolated condition or the child may have other birth defects. Depending on the severity of the baby’s microcephaly, other problems can arise, including seizures; delays in the development of speech, sitting, standing and walking; intellectual disability; feeding problems, difficulty swallowing; hearing loss; and vision problems It is often difficult to predict which problems a child will have, so regular check-ups are necessary. The condition is rare but since the Zika outbreak, some 671 pregnant women in the U.S. have been discovered to have the virus and 17 babies have been born with microcephaly so far. In April, the CDC announced a connection between the Zika virus and cases of microcephaly. Zika is not the only cause. Others including exposure in pregnancy to rubella, toxoplasmosis and cytomegalovirus. Mothers who drink heavily, take drugs, or come into contact with toxic chemicals also put their babies at risk, while it has also been linked to severe malnutrition. Microcephaly is a lifelong condition and there is no known cure. Babies who have mild microcephaly often don’t experience problems beyond a small head size but need routine checkups to monitor their growth and development. In severe cases, medications may be need to treat seizures and other symptoms. If babies receive early developmental care, it will make the most of their physical and intellectual abilities. Early intervention with speech, occupational and physical therapies can help. Source: CDC

'My husband wrote a letter to the First Lady of Honduras after the government said it would help every child who was born with microcephaly. He asked her to help, not just us, but every family in this situation.

'We are still waiting for an answer.'

Aside from her health problems, the couple said their routine is a lot like any other family with a newborn.

'We get up at about 5am. She's still a baby and she can still keep us up all night like all newborns! Christian gets up to tend to her in the night if she is crying, that's his job as Dad.

'Sometimes Christian's job demands that he works up to 16 hours a day in the office, so he cannot help with taking the kids here and there. I can take care of that as I work from home.

'When he gets home from work, Christian takes over Darah's care and we divide our time between her and André when he gets home from school.

'At the moment, we are able to go to Teletón for free physiotherapy two days a week. Eventually, this will drop to every other month as there is so much demand and so many children on the waiting list.

'We try to buy the same special toys as the foundation has, and we have a special carpet for her to play on, to help her development.

'We have a nanny to help take care of Darah. She has no special training for children with disabilities but we explained our situation and asked if she would be willing to work with us, to learn the techniques from the foundation and to give more attention to Darah. We really trust her to help us.'

They haven't discussed Darah's condition with their young son. 'André is only six and he wouldn't grasp the situation.

'When he first saw Darah, the only comment he made was that his sister had a small head. To him, her head is small because she is a baby.

'We will explain when he's a little older and there are perhaps other issues for Darah or when she doesn't go to school.

'Until then there's no need – she's just his baby sister.'

Despite their positive outlook, the couple did not downplay the difficulties of raising a child with a severe disability. The family live with Claudia's parents to make childcare easier.

'We could not have done this without our parents and brothers,' Claudia said. 'I believe if I hadn't had so much emotional and practical support, I would have fallen into a depression after Darah was born and wouldn't feel strong enough to talk about this.'

However they admit that Darah's condition has caused some friends to keep them at arm's length.

'It can be difficult. They don't ask about Darah because they assume we are in a bad situation and it will upset us, or stress us out.'

Raising a child with a rare disability has also proved challenging in San Pedro Sula.

'Because she's a newborn and because of the level of pollution in the city, we don't take her out much but recently we decided to take her grocery shopping,' the couple said.

'A lot of people stared at her in the store and we couldn't handle the pressure of people looking at her that way.

'We took her back to the car and my Mom and André finished getting the groceries. It was too much.'

Claudia added: 'I compare it to Down syndrome – nowadays, people have more understanding, they don't even think about it.

'But with microcephaly, no one knows what it is, it's new and people look out of fear and curiosity. They ask, "what happened to that child?"

'That's a whole new phase for us to deal with and we're not really prepared for that yet.'

One source of support has been other families who are dealing with similar situations. The couple have set up a Facebook page to raise awareness.

Christian emphasized they were not seeking any money but other forms of assistance.

'We are hoping that people can help through the Facebook page - in terms of equipment for disabled children and baby items or any doctors or specialists who can donate their time and experience.'

Positive message: 'I want people to understand that it's not so bad, you can have a normal life when your child has microcephaly. Now that we have Darah, we see that a lot of our fears didn't come true. She just needs special attention,' Claudia tells DailyMail.com

Love: 'Children who have this condition fulfill our lives in a different way and they make us better people. We have to value them. There are things in life that you cannot buy. Once they're born, our children fill a gap in our hearts,' Claudia said.

He added: 'I don't think there has been enough information about Zika in Honduras. Things work in a fragmented way.

'When the government launches a public health campaign, it doesn't always reach all the areas of the county.

'And in reality, the campaign was simply to say that microcephaly causes a small head.

'People have been told about the risks, for example, about standing water – but we could take precautions and then our neighbor doesn't, so the risk remains.

'Officials are trying to show that something is being done but I don't think it's effective.'

For now, they are relying on their grassroots support group and trying to reach out to other expectant mothers who can benefit from their experience.

Claudia said: 'One young mom didn't know her baby had the condition until the birth. She had no idea what to do and was completely panicked. I gave her family some information I had learned and told them which doctors they would need.

She added: 'I want people to understand that it's not so bad, you can have a normal life when your child has microcephaly.

'Now that we have Darah, we see that a lot of our fears didn't come true. She just needs special attention.

'I'm strong. I have the strength to speak with other people about what we’ve been through, who are going through the same thing. To tell them that they are not alone, they shouldn't think it's all bad.

'Children who have this condition fulfill our lives in a different way and they make us better people. We have to value them.

'There are things in life that you cannot buy. Once they're born, our children fill a gap in our hearts.

'There are positive things as well, and we are going to enjoy our children.'