http://www.nairaland.com/2879815/buhari-too-soft-nnamdi-kanu
202
20
Nairaland Forum / Nairaland / General / Politics / Buhari Is Too Soft On Nnamdi Kanu — Bankole-hameed (25598 Views)

Hameed Ali Orders Customs Officers To Declare Assets In 14 Days / Hameed Ali Gives Simon Lalong Gift (Photos) / Hameed Ibrahim-Ali And His Entourage Visit Apapa Area Command (Photos) (1) (2) (3) (4)

(0) (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (Reply) (Go Down)

Mr Shehu Bankole-Hameed, author, politician is a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, APC. Bankole-Hameed, a member of the Lagos Forum in this interview, faults the agitation for Biafra. He also bares his mind on other sundry issues. Excerpts:



By Dapo Akinrefon



50 years after the truncation of the First Republic, do you Nigeria has learned lessons?



My first reaction is that the activists who truncated the First Republic were men of questionable character in the fine profession of the military. That was when a few soldiers mostly of the then Eastern Region massacred prominent political and economic leaders of Northern Nigeria and Western Nigeria only. This singular dastardly act resulted in deep division and distrust among the three major actors in the Nigeria political space; Hausa, Yoruba and Igbo, who had the responsibility to get the project going. The death of Hausa and Yoruba leaders in the hands of the Igbo officers created big economic and political gaps in these regions. What followed was what we are still witnessing today. Another aspect of the ill conceived coup is the decimation of minorities. I don’t think we have acted out to show if we as a nation have learned anything.



There are growing concerns over the president’s continued refusal to obey court orders, what is your take on this?



I’m not going to say that I don’t think that the President is a party to the court proceedings. EFCC I believe is the institution that is on trial as regards court orders, but to be fair to them, explanation as to how a new arrest is effected has been given. It was established in the case of Dasuki for example,that he had new criminal cases for which he was re-arrested.



What is your reaction to the continued detention of Nnamdi Kanu?



Bankole-Hameed



I think this is truly an interesting development. Here is someone who knows that what he did embark on was nothing short of terrorism. What does he expect of the authorities? Body massage, hotel accommodation or what? He is lucky Nigeria is not interested in capital punishment, otherwise he may be so charged. I think the government is even soft on him.



But do you think there should be a negotiation with the South East over Biafra?



This is a very good question. What is Biafra, who are the agitators and how is the cry for it being funded? I will attempt to define Biafra as best as I can and from the perspective of average Nigerian.



There was an attempt by Ojukwu now late, to steal away and enslave non Igbo of the then Eastern Region, while taking over the oil in the region.



He got his own people to buy into the act, there was no justification for the declaration then, which made the concept of Biafra ineligible for negotiations.



What needs to be done is to amend the Constitution to allow for legal agitation, where structured steps are laid out for such discourse.



Many countries have such provision. There should be no force or coercion in Union . Right now, activities related to agitation for Biafra is tantamount to terrorism.



Do you think each region should agitate for autonomy?



The question of regional autonomy may be discussed at state levels, where various local communities agree that what is needed is the granting of legal, financial and economic autonomy. Then the next step is to convince the federal assembly on the need to amend the Constitution to that effect. How many of the existing states can survive being autonomous?



http://cdn1.vanguardngr.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/01/Bankole-Hameed.jpg 6 Likes

True! 28 Likes 1 Share

It will soon be your turn then you and your ilk's will pour to the streets, we know you guys as unstable as water. 83 Likes 7 Shares

Mr bankole should Better shut the hell up, if you don't have something better to contribute! Apc zombies @ works. 97 Likes 7 Shares

Clown 31 Likes 1 Share

The man is talking with the mentality of someone who lives on planet Mars. Self determination recognised by the UN and most civilised countries now amounts to terrorism to him? Dullard! 132 Likes 9 Shares

kingzizzy:

The man is talking with the mentality of someone who lives on planet Mars. Self determination recognised by the UN and most civilised countries now amounts to terrorism to him? Dullard!

dont mind the foolish man dont mind the foolish man 78 Likes 4 Shares

Mad people everywhere, thunder Egbeligwe, Agbara Okija kpajaa kwa onye ara ya isi. 45 Likes 4 Shares

Helo mumu bankole, u beta shut up dat ur fulishness say cos u sbt knw wot t say, ofe mmnu like u! 45 Likes 2 Shares

A slave on the loose.. 38 Likes 3 Shares

GOD KNOWS I HATE THAT WORD BIAFRA. IT SADDENS MY HEART WHEN I HEAR BIAFRA. BIAFRA MUST FAIL. WE MUST NOT ALLOW IT. I DONT HATE THE IGBOS BUT THAT WORD BIAFRA.



GOD BLESS NIGERIA 51 Likes 7 Shares

Just here to read comments 1 Like 1 Share

Seconded. A sinner and Scam like the Kanu Mandela of IPOB should be presented in court with chains and handcuff. My sympathy goes to his ingoramu's followers !!! 33 Likes 2 Shares

As you can all see



IPOB Youths will ignore the message but they will rather attack the personality. This is the self destructive attitude that has led IPOB people to become the dregs of the Nigerian society.



The man has spoken the truth and delivered it exquisitely.



I think this is truly an interesting development. Here is someone who knows that what he did embark on was nothing short of terrorism. What does he expect of the authorities? Body massage, hotel accommodation or what? He is lucky Nigeria is not interested in capital punishment, otherwise he may be so charged. I think the government is even soft on him.



This is exactly what I have been saying. Buhari is too soft on the terrorist. His trial should be fast tracked and in the most likely case that he is found guilty, his execution should be concluded within days. There should be no right of appeal. The man has spoken the truth and delivered it exquisitely.This is exactly what I have been saying. Buhari is too soft on the terrorist. His trial should be fast tracked and in the most likely case that he is found guilty, his execution should be concluded within days. There should be no right of appeal. 70 Likes 3 Shares

Yes@ Bankole 2 Likes

Shymm3x:

I honestly don't know why some Yoruba folks can't let these people be.



It seems a lot of folks are oblivious to the fact that Nigeria is bankrupt and it's only a matter of time before it implodes. So if certain folks want to leave the cesspit, either by hook or by crook - why can't you let them be? Or are Yorubas so messed up these days that they don't believe that they can survive without Igbos cos it is starting to look like that?



You have a people who have been stuck in the 60s cos of Nigeria, yet they are the biggest proponent of the shiithole. If that isn't a classic case of Stockholm Syndrome, I don't know what it is. Or what have Yorubas achieved collectively since the 60s cos pictures of all Yoruba states, apart from Lagos aren't nothing to be proud of. Then almost all the states are heavily indebted and it is only going to get worse due to how bankrupt Nigeria is right now.



Anyway, there are tons of Yorubas out there who wouldn't mind donating in whatever capacity to the Biafran cause, if Igbos can develop a proper strategy that won't alienate those in the South and maintain territorial integrity. Igbos need to start reaching out cos apart from the cows and cow jockeys feasting on free grass in Nigeria - the country is a disaster.

The quoted is a Yoruba man with a different opinion.



That was when a few soldiers mostly of the then Eastern Region massacred prominent political and economic leaders of Northern Nigeria and Western Nigeria only.



There was a Yoruba man among the key 5 not 'few' soldiers called Major Adewale Ademoyega.

The leader of the coup Major Nzeogwus mother was a Hausa woman, he grew up as a Hausa man and his name was Kaduna, he never grew up in Igboland or as an Igboman, He only ran to his people in the east when there was trouble and he was welcomed and they stood by him as their own.

A generation of the most brilliant youths from Asaba his home state were massacred in cold blood as a revenge by the Nigerian Army during the civil war when they responded to a call for a 'peace meeting' at a square and the people still mourn their loss till today.

Nigeria needs true healing and not this tribal sentiments by our so called leaders and encouraged by the youths on social media. The quoted is a Yoruba man with a different opinion.There was a Yoruba man among the key 5 not 'few' soldiers called Major Adewale Ademoyega.The leader of the coup Major Nzeogwus mother was a Hausa woman, he grew up as a Hausa man and his name was Kaduna, he never grew up in Igboland or as an Igboman, He only ran to his people in the east when there was trouble and he was welcomed and they stood by him as their own.A generation of the most brilliant youths from Asaba his home state were massacred in cold blood as a revenge by the Nigerian Army during the civil war when they responded to a call for a 'peace meeting' at a square and the people still mourn their loss till today.Nigeria needs true healing and not this tribal sentiments by our so called leaders and encouraged by the youths on social media. 38 Likes 1 Share

Bros u harsh o. 1 Like

True talk on Buhari softeness on Nnamdi Kanu............He should look into it more fiercely





For biafrans, i think there should be negotiation.......There freedom should be approve





Marriage no be by force ooooo.......I rest my case!





BTW, to loose excess weight on areas like your tummy, arms, thighs and other parts of your body where fats are deposited? check my signatures for live testimonies... 3 Likes

v

Bankole that means both Ibb and Abacha were rather too soft on Mko Abiola for anulling june 12 election and subsequently incarcerating him until he was mysteriously killed. RIP Abiola. People should be thoughtful before making public utterance 22 Likes

.

Some people working the streets Nigeria should be subjected to psychiatric test to ascertain whether they are mad.



This man's answer to the very first question gave him away as a typical Yoruba disgruntled elder.



"My first reaction is that the activists who truncated the First Republic were men of questionable character in the fine profession of the military. That was when a few soldiers mostly of the then Eastern Region massacred prominent political and economic leaders of Northern Nigeria and Western Nigeria only."





Setting the record straight. these are the officers that plotted the said coup



1. Major Chukwuma Kaduna Nzeogwu (Delta Igbo)



2. Major Adewale Ademoyega (Yoruba) author of “Why we struck”



3. Capt. G. Adeleke (Yoruba)



4. Maj. Ifeajuna (Igbo)



5. Lt. Fola Oyewole (Yoruba) author of “The reluctant rebel”



6. Lt. R. Egbiko(Esean)



7. Lt. Tijani Katsina(Hausa/Fulani)



8. Lt. O. Olafemiyan(Yoruba)



9. Capt. Gibson Jalo(Bali)



10. Capt. Swanton(Middle Belt)



11. Lt. Hope Harris Eghagha (Urhobo)



12. Lt. Dag Warribor(Ijaw)



13. 2nd Lt. Saleh Dambo(Hausa)



14. 2nd Lt. John Atom Kpera(Tiv).



So, to an unbiased observer, what evidence can one provide to show that Igbos actually carried out the coup in order to exterminate other tribes and take over the country? It is very easy to sell falshood, but it is very difficult to provide facts to buttress your claims. 92 Likes 15 Shares

Another Vagabond....



So many mad people in Nigeria re now having a say... 11 Likes

E

Okay na. Na jail u go slip all IPOB youth and Your animal Leader 3 Likes

...buh oga politician softly softly true...buh oga politician softly softly 2 Likes

should Kanu be murdered by Buhari wahala go dey o....,..,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,@bankole,.OBJ was so soft on you. ,yuh knw wata mean nah 3 Likes

just look at the guy Bankole and you see the boko haram in his face 8 Likes

YORUBA ARE DELIBERATELY MISLEADING BUHARI, SO HE CAN EITHER BE KILLED OR END UP IN THE ICC WHILST OSINBANJO BECOME PRESIDENT.



THIS IS WHY U HEAR THEM SHOUTING KILL HIM, KILL THEM, DISOBEY COURT ORDER.



I PITY BUHARI BECOS HE HAS SURROUNDED HIMSELF WITH SNAKES. 22 Likes 2 Shares

Should he kill him??

One was handcuffed; ah Buhari is too wicked

Kanu now; Buhari is to soft

In Chief Ebenezer Obeys Voice;

Ko S'ogbon to le da ko si wa to lewu ko s'ona to le gba to le fi t'aye lorun oooo 2 Likes