http://www.thebreakingtimes.com/horror-nigerian-army-burnt-defenseless-shiites-very-graphic-images/
203
20
Nigerians are horrified to see the latest video on Zaria Massacre with burnt dead bodies everywhere in the residence of the Nigerian Islamic scholar Sheikh Ibraheem ‪‎Zakzaky‬ & the Leader of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN). The same massacre occurred at the Hussainiyyah (Islamic center) where the ‪‎Nigerian_Army‬ bombed civilians with Rocket Propelled Grenades (RPG). That was why the Kaduna state Governor Elrufai quickly demolished the Hussainiyyah to destroy all evidences there.

We said it from the beginning that it was not a clash between the Shiites & the Nigerian Army. It was a merciless brutal massacre by the Nigerian Army against defenseless Nigerians. They killed ‪‎children‬, women & the aged, & they killed most of the injured. That was why they quickly bury all the corpse in mass graves to bury the evidences.

A clash entails two groups both armed with the same types of weapons or close to that. In the Zaria massacre the Nigerian Army were armed with guns, amoured vehicles & RPGs while the Shiites were “armed” with stones & sticks. The Nigerian Army did not only shot people but they also burned people to death as the video shows.

The casualty statistics of both sides is a further proof that the Zaria Massacre was a massacre & not a clash. The Nigerian Army did not record a single death in the Zaria massacre while 1000+ defenseless Shia Muslims were slaughtered.

When the Nigerian Army clashed with ‪‎BokoHaram Terrorist‬ they use to record deaths & injured;when the Nigerian Army clashed with Niger Delta militants they use to record deaths & injured; when the Nigerian Army clashed with well-armed Oil bunkerers they use to record death & injured;when the Nigerian Army clashed with cattle rustlers & kidnappers they use to record death & injured but when they “clashed” with Shiites none of them was killed or injured!

The above practical examples only points to one thing & that is the Zaria massacre was not a clash between the Shiites & the Nigerian Army as the Nigerian government is try to portray and unfortunately most media outlets in Nigeria & outside ‪‎Nigeria‬ are trying to portray. The Zaria massacre was a coordinate & pre-planned attacks on the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN ) & it’s leadership by the Nigerian government.

Finally, I will end this piece by the title of a poem composed by a Nigerian Poet to mourn the brutal Zaria massacre & it says “Babu Inda Babu Allah (There is no Place where God is not Present)”.

Culled from AhlulBayt News Agency