http://www.tamilnet.com/art.html?catid=13&artid=38124
202
20
Boyle condemns U.S. endorsement of Sri Lanka on ‘Independence Day’ [TamilNet, Saturday, 06 February 2016, 01:50 GMT]

Professor Francis Boyle, an expert in International Law and who teaches at the University of Illinois College of Law, condemned as "revolting and disgusting" Under Secretary for Management Organization of American States, Patrick F. Kennedy's congratulatory remarks and endorsement of Sri Lanka on Thursday the 4th of February, Sri Lanka's Independence Day. Responding to Secretary Kennedy's statement that "plenteous in prosperity" and "in wisdom and strength renewed" as very apt portrayal of Sri Lanka's destiny, Boyle said "Yes, the Genocidal GOSL’s “destiny” is to exterminate the Eelam Tamils and to steal all of Tamil Eelam. And the United States government is going to help the Genocidal GOSL to continue to do so."







I can understand that for political and diplomatic reasons the United States would congratulate the Genocidal Sri Lanka on its National Day because it so congratulates all States and Governments with which it has diplomatic relations. But these gushing words of Endorsement by Kennedy on behalf of the United States Government are truly revolting and disgusting. As an American Citizen I condemn them in the strongest terms possible. Kennedy does not speak for me. US remarks on Sri Lanka Independence Day Yes well with all of our faults, we Americans have not inflicted genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity against 136, 000 of our own Citizens. Upon the Indians we did over a century ago, but they were not our own Citizens—not to justify America’s Genocide against the Indians, which I also condemn. “We also have many of the same core values, .” Does that include America inflicting genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity against our own Citizens? “ and the accomplishments of the Sri Lankan people and their government over the past year have made all of us rightly proud..” Does that mean that the United States government is “rightly proud” of the ongoing genocide and crimes against humanity that the GOSL is today inflicting upon the Eelam Tamils? “You have co-sponsored, with the United States, a strong resolution at the UN Human Rights Council on human rights in Sri Lanka ” As I have repeatedly pointed out on Tamilnet this UN Human Rights Council Resolution is a sick joke and a demented fraud that perverts everything Human Rights is supposed to stand for and has now been publicly repudiated by the President of Sri Lanka himself. How can Kennedy and the State Department says this with a straight face? “ returned 1,300 hectares of land to their rightful owners in the Northern and Eastern provinces ” I don’t know if this claim is true. But it is a fact that the GOSL continues to steal more of Tamil Eelam every day and to inflict ethnic cleansing upon the Eelam Tamils living there. “ .welcoming Sri Lanka as a Millennium Challenge Corporation Threshold Partner ” In other words, America will be giving the Genocidal GOSL a lot more money to continue to facilitate its genocide, crimes against humanity, and ethnic cleansing of the Eelam Tamils. “ And the United States is committed to helping you, in whatever way we can, ” In other words, the United States government will continue to AID AND ABET the GOSL Genocide, Crimes against Humanity, and Ethnic Cleansing of the Eelam Tamils. “The Sri Lankan government has more laudable ventures underway ” So does the United States government consider the Ongoing GOSL Genocide, Crimes against Humanity, and Ethnic Cleansing against the Eelam Tamils to be “laudable”? “ .The world is watching Sri Lanka. Your solutions, if successful, can become the blueprint for future generations, in distant nations, ” Yes indeed. The GOSL Lesson here is that: Genocide Works! Always Again! “ . It describes a country that is “plenteous in prosperity ” and, “in wisdom and strength renewed.” Those phrases may have been written in the last century, but they are, I strongly believe, a very apt portrayal of Sri Lanka’s destiny in this century.” Yes, the Genocidal GOSL’s “destiny” is to exterminate the Eelam Tamils and to steal all of Tamil Eelam. And the United States government is going to help the Genocidal GOSL to continue to do so.



External Links:

USGov : U.S. State Dept remarks on Sri Lanka National Day Clarity : Tamil Genocide by Sri Lanka - Enlarged 2nd Edition by Francis Boyle



Chronology:

11.02.16 SL Police entices Sinhala students to confront Tam.. 06.02.16 Boyle condemns U.S. endorsement of Sri Lanka on ‘I.. [TamilNet, Saturday, 06 February 2016, 01:50 GMT] Full text of Boyle's comment sent to TamilNet follows:I can understand that for political and diplomatic reasons the United States would congratulate the Genocidal Sri Lanka on its National Day because it so congratulates all States and Governments with which it has diplomatic relations. But these gushing words of Endorsement by Kennedy on behalf of the United States Government are truly revolting and disgusting. As an American Citizen I condemn them in the strongest terms possible. Kennedy does not speak for me.Yes well with all of our faults, we Americans have not inflicted genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity against 136, 000 of our own Citizens. Upon the Indians we did over a century ago, but they were not our own Citizens—not to justify America’s Genocide against the Indians, which I also condemn.Does that include America inflicting genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity against our own Citizens?Does that mean that the United States government is “rightly proud” of the ongoing genocide and crimes against humanity that the GOSL is today inflicting upon the Eelam Tamils?As I have repeatedly pointed out on Tamilnet this UN Human Rights Council Resolution is a sick joke and a demented fraud that perverts everything Human Rights is supposed to stand for and has now been publicly repudiated by the President of Sri Lanka himself. How can Kennedy and the State Department says this with a straight face?I don’t know if this claim is true. But it is a fact that the GOSL continues to steal more of Tamil Eelam every day and to inflict ethnic cleansing upon the Eelam Tamils living there.In other words, America will be giving the Genocidal GOSL a lot more money to continue to facilitate its genocide, crimes against humanity, and ethnic cleansing of the Eelam Tamils.In other words, the United States government will continue to AID AND ABET the GOSL Genocide, Crimes against Humanity, and Ethnic Cleansing of the Eelam Tamils.So does the United States government consider the Ongoing GOSL Genocide, Crimes against Humanity, and Ethnic Cleansing against the Eelam Tamils to be “laudable”?Yes indeed. The GOSL Lesson here is that: Genocide Works! Always Again!Yes, the Genocidal GOSL’s “destiny” is to exterminate the Eelam Tamils and to steal all of Tamil Eelam. And the United States government is going to help the Genocidal GOSL to continue to do so.