http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/isis-suspect-claiming-syrian-migrant-7320666
203
20
The man was arrested during a series of raids

A man has been arrested on suspicion of being an ISIS terrorist after entering Europe claiming to be a Syrian refugee.

The 34-year-old man was arrested at a refuge centre after police raided a number of locations in Germany this week.

Here, he is pictured surrounded by a cache of heavy weaponry including automatic rifles and grenades.

The picture shows the suspect knelt next to his haul of Ak47s , possibly loaded magazines, hand grenades, camouflage and protective gear.

He smirks as he holds a hand gun towards the camera.

Police believe the man, who hasn't been identified, was planning to massacre civilians in Germany after receiving training from IS thugs in Syria.

The proposed attack comes as a top German spy warned ISIS was planting fighters disguised as refugees in Europe.

Getty German police officers, not pictured, stormed properties across the country

German cops in Attendorn said the man arrived in the country at the end of 2015, claiming to be fleeing the civil war.

It is now believe he is part of the terror cell. His wife, who has not been named, has also been taken into custody.

They were taken as 450 heavily-armed police stormed properties across the country on Thursday.

Read more: ISIS killers are sneaking into Europe as refugees, claims top German spy

Another man was arrested for producing fake identity documents.

Intelligence agency BfV chief Hans-Georg Maassen said the terrorist attacks in Paris last November had shown that Islamic State was deliberately planting terrorists among the refugees flowing into Europe.

He also gave chilling warnings of an attack in Germany, after the country welcomed 1.1 million migrants last year.

Getty Other migrants were forced out of shelters as police raided the properties

Mr Maassen told ZDF television: "Then we have repeatedly seen that terrorists... have slipped in camouflaged or disguised as refugees.

"This is a fact that the security agencies are facing.

"We are trying to recognise and identify whether there are still more IS fighters or terrorists from IS that have slipped in."

Read more: SAS heroes blown up in ISIS ambush on top secret mission in Iraq

Critics have opposed Angela Merkel’s open door policy towards migrants and previously warned it could allow extremists to enter the country.

The refugee office also admitted that officials are struggling to cope with hundreds of thousands of asylum applications.

Of the 1.1 million who arrived last year, 770,000 are still yet to receive a decision and more than half of them haven't filed a full claim.