http://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi/bjp-to-launch-phased-attacks-on-aap-govt-s-failures-after-diwali/story-386vlXtcrk8xaZNKRMFZFK.html
138
13
The Delhi Bharatiya Janata Party is gearing up to corner the Aam Aadmi Party government over its “failure” on various fronts, especially security of women.

After Diwali, the party is planning to launch a drive to reach out to people to seek their feedback on whether the government has fulfilled its promises made during polls.

BJP decided to take on the state government in a planned manner as AAP leaders have continuously been blaming the Centre for every issue in Delhi, said BJP sources.

“A white paper will be brought out as a counter-attack. The party has decided to go all guns blazing against the AAP government in view of the municipal elections scheduled next year,” a source said.

BJP state chief Satish Upadhyay said the party is in the process of planning a series of protests against the failure of the government. “We will ask the government what they have done for women’s security, one of their poll planks. They talk about morality and integrity. In reality, they don’t practice what they preach. Six of their MLAs have been booked on harassment and molestation charges,” he said.

Read: Eye on civic polls, AAP sharpens attack on BJP-ruled municipalities

He said it was time the women of the electorate knew that they were merely used as a vote bank by the AAP. The AAP government does not have a woman minister in the cabinet, Upadhyay said. “What have they done for working women? Have they built a hostel for them? Still, buses have no CCTV cameras and security guards. The BJP and Congress governments had a woman minister in the cabinet but AAP government has none,” he said.

Alleging that the government miserably failed on all fronts, he further said the people of Delhi have right to ask questions. “We will bring out white paper on its (government’s) failure. We will seek response from the people of Delhi. Our aim is to engage more and more people living rural and urban areas. The party leaders will sit together and plan accordingly to expose the government,” he added.