http://www.christiandaily.com/article/nun-who-survived-yemen-massacre-still-traumatized-as-she-recalls-close-encounter-with-death/52249.htm
203
20
A Missionaries of Charity nun who survived the massacre at a home for the aged in Yemen is still traumatized as she recalls how she escaped death two months ago.

(Reuters/Rupak De Chowduri) A Catholic nun from the Missionaries of Charity, the global order of nuns founded by Mother Teresa, holds candles during a vigil to show solidarity with the nun who was raped during an armed assault on a convent school, in Kolkata, March 16, 2015.

Sister Sally, the lone survivor in the Yemen massacre, is reportedly now back in India but is still having a hard time coming to terms with what happened two months ago. At that time, Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) militants stormed the establishment, slaughtered four nuns, and kidnapped Fr. Tom Uzhunnalil, Breitbart details.

Advertisement

The attackers reportedly tied up the four nuns before shooting them and smashing their heads. That day, Sr. Anselm from India, Sr. Judith from Kenya, and Sr. Marguerite and Sr. Reginette from Rwanda lost their lives along with twelve other people, who were volunteers from Africa. All of them were found handcuffed and shot in the head.

Sr. Sally recalls how the gunmen barged in on March 4 and shot all of the nuns except her. She was managing the nursing home at that time and was in another part of the building hidden from the militants, Christian Today relays.

"They shot at the security guard first and when other workers tried to warn us, they tied them to a tree and killed them," said Sr. Sally. "It was a miraculous escape as the gunmen didn't see me when they raided our home."

While Sr. Sally thanks God for sparing her from the bloodbath, she cannot comprehend why the militants chose to attack the priests and nuns who have helped the poor, disabled, and abandoned elderly people in Aden.

The nun also said she could not relive the moments when the attackers took Fr. Uzhunnalil, but she is praying for his safe release.

After the Yemen massacre, Sr. Sally was transferred to the Missionaries of Charity regional house in Jordan. Right now, she is in her ancestral home in Kerala, India.