http://www.politico.com/tipsheets/politico-influence/2016/10/roberti-and-other-top-clinton-bundlers-217119
139
13
Roberti and other top Clinton bundlers

With help from Taylor Gee, Kaitlyn Burton and Mary Lee

BUNDLERS: Vin Roberti had a busy 19 days — the Roberti Global lobbyist raised $596,500 for the Clinton campaign and Democrats between Oct. 1 and Oct. 19, more than any other lobbyist in the period. Richard Sullivan of Capitol Counsel bundled $187,436, and Susan Esserman of Steptoe & Johnson rounded up $181,400, according to last night's FEC report (the last before the election).

Story Continued Below

For the entire cycle, as of Oct. 19, the biggest bundlers were Richard Sullivan of Capitol Counsel ($2.8 million), Ankit Desai of Cheniere Energy ($2 million), David Jones of Capitol Counsel ($1.2 million), Linda Lipsen of the American Association for Justice ($1.1 million), and Liz Robbins of Liz Robbins Associates ($968,000).

Donald Trump's campaign did not report any lobbyists who bundled $17,600 or more.

AMAZON HIRES THUNE'S CULLIN: Professional staffer Allison Cullin is leaving the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation for Amazon.com's public policy transportation team. She worked for Sen. John Thune (R-S.D.) on the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act and the Protecting our Infrastructure of Pipelines and Enhancing Safety Act.

SIZING UP THE FRESHMAN CLASS: Fewer members are leaving (retirements, resignations, deaths, seeking other office, primary defeats) at the end of this Congress than any session since 2006, according to an analysis by Bruce Mehlman of Mehlman Castagnetti Rosen & Thomas. But with 38 contested seats, the freshman class could be the third-biggest since 1994, depending on the results.

TGIF. Send tips to iarnsdorf@politico.com.

TRANSITION: Ed Feulner, a former president of The Heritage Foundation, is trying to raise $100,000, at New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie's request, for the Trump transition to cover costs that aren’t covered by federal funding, he said in an e-mail to supporters obtained by POLITICO. Next week Feulner is hosting a $5,000-a-person breakfast with Christie at the Metropolitan Club, according to an invitation obtained by POLITICO. The Trump transition team brought on Cam Henderson, who had been the finance director for a super PAC supporting Christie’s own presidential bid, to help supplement the government funding as it has grown to more than 100 people, compensating for the campaign's dearth of policy staff. “The need for a modest cash budget has become a priority,” Feulner, who's volunteering to help on issues including government regulation, school choice, health care reform, energy deregulation, welfare and food stamp reforms, wrote in the email. “I remain convinced that the contest is much closer than the so-called Main Stream Media would have us believe.”

MORE JOBS:

— Comcast promoted Beth Choroser to vice president of regulatory affairs in Washington, covering broadband, voice, public safety and security, focusing on the FCC. She was previously executive director of regulatory affairs in Philadelphia and replaces Mary McManus, who is retiring.

— Toby Myerson is leaving law firm Paul, Weiss to start his own business advisory called Longsight Strategic Advisors, focusing on governance, crisis management and transactions.

— The American Frozen Food Institute hired Brandon Partridge as senior vice president of industry development. He was founder and CEO of Skyland Foods, which sells drinkable yogurt, and previously worked in government relations for Governor Bob Taft (R-Ohio), Nestlé and the Tipton Group.

PREVIEW: The Task Force on American Innovation, a group of universities and businesses seeking more federal funding for science research, retained Stewart Barber of Corley & Pipes to run the coalition and its lobbying efforts.

FUTURE OF MONEY: The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, led by Beth Knickerbocker, will set up an innovation office to oversee the financial technology sector The Hill’s Anjelica Tan reports. Banks that have set up innovation labs include JPMorgan, Citigroup and Barclays.

HAPPY HUNTING: Lobbyists tell The Washington Post's Catherine Ho they’ll hold off hiring until after the election. Then, they're hoping to grab valuable senior staffers who worked on important congressional committees. “It’s coming into what I’d like to describe as Christmas time for headhunters,” said Ivan Adler, a headhunter at McCormick Group.

IN FACT IT'S A GAS: The American Petroleum Institute wants to present natural gas as the cheapest way for states to meet their targets under the EPA's Clean Power Plan, touting a new analysis by ICF International, Alex Guillén reports for POLITICO.

NEW PACs:

Four Fathers: Unknown

Mark For America: Independent Expenditure - Person Or Group Not A Committee, Unauthorized

NEW LOBBYING REGISTRATIONS:

Baker Donelson Bearman Caldwell & Berkowitz: Arthroscopy Association of North America