http://www.dnaindia.com/india/report-republic-day-2016-why-i-hated-parades-and-march-pasts-growing-up-2170536
202
20
Every year on August 15 and January 26, when I see most of the nation get up and celebrate despite a dry day, I am taken back to my childhood where march-pasts were the bane of my existence. My hatred for the pageantry stemmed from my boarding school upbringing. Situated in the Gwalior Fort and run by descendants of a family that behaved less than bravely during the war against the British (but don’t like being reminded that they did), the Scindia School was one of those boarding schools that promised to combine British school values best espoused in John Le Carre’s novels with India’s syncretic culture.

For the uninitiated, boarding schools can be tough on kids who are perceived to be different. As a big fat kid who didn’t speak Hindi, life was tough enough and it got terribly worse during the two national holidays when the entire school was expected to be part of the march-past for their respective houses. The preparations would start months in advance and nowhere in life have I felt more out of place.

Hair shorn close to the scalp, with our shoes shining and our clothes spotless, we were expected to march to the tune of the brass band, which everyone wanted to join because they had the best annual dinner. It was that time in life that I discovered just how troublesome it can be for some to—literally and figuratively—toe the line.

In time, my hapless seniors deemed me Kachra Party, a special term bestowed perhaps upon just a handful of people people in a school of 600-700 students, who were deemed so clumsy for the march-past that they’d bring shame to the school’s name in front of an esteemed Chief Guest. In many ways, it made me feel like John the Savage from Aldous Huxley’s Brave New World, unfit to follow the rules that everyone smoothly followed.

Perhaps it was this earlier rejection that led me to question, more than others, the need for such pageantry. The questions inevitably led to enquiring into the need for an idea of nationhood where one had to love their nation.

As I read more, I came to attribute well-planned parades to cold, calculating authoritarian regimes who then indulge in ethnic cleansing (a faulty argument I made in my indiscriminate youth). The fact that even the man whose poem went on to become our national anthem echoed these views, bolstered youthful zest for rebelling. For the record Tagore had written: “India has never had a real sense of nationalism. Even though from childhood I had been taught that the idolatry of Nation is almost better than reverence for God and humanity, I believe I have outgrown that teaching, and it is my conviction that my countrymen will gain truly their India by fighting against that education which teaches them that a country is greater than the ideals of humanity.”

To be fair, he wasn’t against the idea of India, but the idea of any nationhood. He viewed the desire to have an Indian nation to be similar to the European concept of national identity. This led to a lot of question like:

How can so many people blindly follow rules? Why don’t people question things? Why must I be bound by the Constitution? After all it was a matter of chance that I was born in India. Can patriotism be compulsory? At what point does not loving one’s nation become a crime? Why do we need to show off our nation’s weapons?

However, now having lost the anger of youth, when I see Republic Day or Independence Day parades, I understand that from a practical point of view, we need these events. Every group, including nations, need an icon, something that binds them together. For the British it’s the Crown, while the Americans have their Old Glory or the Constitution. This is also the reason the Brits, persist with an outdated concept like monarchy.

For India, it’s a mix of several things that binds people together. There’s the Constitution which promises equality for all irrespective of their religion, creed, caste, ethnicity and the language they spoke. There are the courts which promise justice irrespective of the victim or prosecutor’s financial status. That’s why we need such parades, even if it means we have men (or women) dressed as dongles as seen in the Digital India tableau. It’s a celebration of the Constitution, whose committee was chaired by a man who spent his life fighting for the oppressed. True, inadequacies of castes and religion continue to threaten us, but heed President Mukherjee's Republic Day address.

Addressing the nation on the eve of Republic Day, the President said:

“There will be, amongst us, occasional doubters and baiters. Let us continue to complain, to demand, to rebel. This too is a virtue of democracy. But let us also applaud what our democracy has achieved. With investments in infrastructure, manufacturing, health, education, science and technology, we are positioning ourselves well for achieving a higher growth rate which will in the next 10 to 15 years help us eliminate poverty.”

“Reverence for the past is one of the essential ingredients of nationalism. Our finest inheritance, the institutions of democracy, ensure to all citizens justice, equality, and gender and economic equity. When grim instances of violence hit at these established values which are at the core of our nationhood, it is time to take note. We must guard ourselves against the forces of violence, intolerance and unreason.”

Celebrations like this, aren’t just a show of power to the world, it’s a reminder that Indians are one, that we are there for each other and that despite our differences of value systems, we will continue to fight for each other.