http://www.the-star.co.ke/news/2016/01/26/kenyan-troops-withdraw-from-el-adde-massacre-camp-in-somalia_c1283640
202
20
Kenyan soldiers have set up camp at a location away from their station in El Adde, Somalia, which al Shabaab militants raided, killing dozens, on January 15.

KDF spokesman David Obonyo said the decision to relocate will allow continuity in operations against the terror group linked to al Qaeda.

“It is not medically advisable to continue operating from the same location where soldiers were attacked and killed," Obonyo said on Tuesday.

"It is not a must for us to operate from the same location. We can still do our job from a different location. We are dominating the area."

The spokesman dismissed reports that soldiers had pulled out of some areas saying they have decommissioned al Shabaab camps within Gedo region for the last five days.

"This is not true. We will remain in this sector as per the Amisom act. Though it is not habitable, we will remain here," he told The Star.

He said they are in the process of establishing defense mechanisms in various parts following the attack described as the deadliest since Kenyan troops joined the African Union Mission in Somalia in 2011.

"We have enough weapon systems that we can use to persue the militants wherever they are," he said.

But al Shabaab militants, who claimed they killed 100 in the attack, said they had taken full control of the El Adde camp. Al Shabaab has inflated casualty figures in the past, while other official estimates often play down numbers.

"This morning we peacefully captured El Adde," al Shabaab spokesman Sheikh Abdiasis Abu Musab said in a statement, a claim that was echoed by local residents.

The group seeks to overthrow Somalia's Western-backed government and to drive the African Union force out of Somalia.

Kenya has been carrying out a search, rescue and recovery operation and has brought at least 20 bodies and several soldiers back to the country.

Officials have not yet revealed the death toll.

President Uhuru Kenyatta and Chief of Defence Forces General Samson Mwathethe have categorically stated that KDF will not pull out of Somalia until peace and stability are achieved.