http://pchrgaza.org/en/?p=1354
201
20
On Wednesday, 26 September 2007, PCHR’s Director, Raji Sourani, met with the UN Special Rappartuer on the human rights situation in the OPT, John Dugard, and an accompanying delegation.

The meeting focused on the human rights situation in the OPT, especially in the Gaza Strip, on the 40th anniversary of the Israeli occupation. Sourani stressed that this anniversary has been the worst and bloodiest year of the occupation.

In talking about the wide spectrum of Israeli human rights violations against Palestinian civilians and property, Sourani focused on the impact of these violations, and pointed that they are the fruit of several Israeli policies that violate International Law and International Humanitarian Law. He highlighted the policies of the Annexation Wall, settlement expansion, ethnic-cleansing in Jerusalem, economic and social strangulation, closure of the Gaza Strip, and restrictions on the movement of individuals and goods. Sourani stressed that Israel as an occupying power disregards the 4th Geneva Convention, and is adamant in acting by the rules of the jungle with the High Contracting Parties of the 4th Geneva Convention, especially EU countries, silent watchers. He pointed that this silence is unacceptable and is a violation of the responsibilities on these countries.

Sourani also briefed the visitors on the human rights situation on the Palestinian front. He pointed to the developments following the June military confrontation; and stressed the Center’s position that the only solution to this crisis is through Palestinian dialogue.

Sourani thanked Dugard for his objectivity, professionalism, and independence that is clear in the reports and presentations he makes. He stated that Dugard enjoys and will continue to enjoy utmost respect from PCHR and Palestinian human rights and civil society organizations.

It is noted that the UN Special Rappartuer issues annual reports on the human rights situation in the OPT and presents them to the UN Human Rights Council. The reports are of the most important legal references on the Palestinian issue and Israeli practices pertaining to it.