http://kashmirreader.com/pro-freedom-camp-has-no-documentation-on-gaw-kadal-massacre/
202
20
Srinagar: The Kashmiri pro-freedom camp has no proper documentation of the massacre at Gaw Kadal, in which around 52 civilians were killed by Indian forces on Jan 20, 1990.

While pro-freedom groups pay rich tributes to the martyrs, they still have very little or no proper documentation, like details about the victims or any action taken by their families (an FIR report for example). Both factions of the Hurriyat Conference, when asked, expressed ‘helplessness’ in sharing concrete details or documents related to the massacre.

Hurriyat Conference (G) spokesperson, Ayaz Akbar, while admitting the lack of proper documentation, said work on this issue was not carried out to the extent it should have by the pro-freedom camp. “Though the situation was fragile at that time, but afterwards the documentation should have been followed by the pro-freedom leadership. It is very unfortunate that we lack concrete documentation.”

When asked if the Hurriyat had any intention to still pursue the case, as it was closed in 2005, Akbar said, “Hurriyat is providing whatever support it can to the institutions working for this cause and it has been our stand that all the cases, including Gaw Kadal massacre, which were closed or no investigation was initiated to punish the criminals, should be re-opened and the culprits brought to justice.” He, however, also said that for some years now the Hurriyat has been keeping a proper record of incidents which have ‘significance in our freedom struggle’.

Mannan Bukhari, Head, Human Rights Division of the Hurriyat (M), too denied having any proper documentation of that gory incident. “We haven’t done any comprehensive practical work on the gruesome massacre of Gaw Kadal, although we had done a little bit of work, including recording some statements of eye-witnesses, but unfortunately we had not digitised the data and the 2014 floods washed it all away. A back-up, is however, in process,” he said.

But the reality remains that pro-freedom groups do not even possesses an FIR copy of that massacre. JKLF Chairman Yasin Malik says everybody was in shock at that time, and nobody dared to come out from their homes even days after the gruesome episode. “After that incident the whole Valley was kept under stringent curfew, nobody was allowed to come out to protest and it was almost unthinkable to file a case against anyone,” he said.

The Gaw Kadal massacre is considered by some human rights groups as one of the “worst massacres in Kashmiri history.” On 20 January, 1990, the CRPF opened fire on a group of Kashmiris protesting against night raids by Indian forces, killing around 52 people, government figures, however, say 21 were killed.

According to Human Rights Watch, no government investigation was ever ordered into the incident. Fifteen years later, in 2005, the police case was closed and those involved in the massacre were declared ‘untraceable’.



Bio

Social

Latest Posts

By: NAZIR GILLO Journalism in Kashmir can be quite challenging as a career and Nazir Gillo has gladly accepted it given his liking and respect for this profession. Coursed accurately, Nazir made inroads in local print journalism by coming out with stories on diverse subjects ranging from politics to environment to education.











