http://megynkelly.org/105191/when-virtue-signalling-as-a-basis-for-policy-fails-with-merkels-popularity-tanking-new-anti-te/
202
20
Advertisement

It never ceases to amaze me how abortion advocates will pull out all the stops to paint abortion as this grand venture that makes the world a better place. Proponents have made it sound as if in the event abortion were made illegal, then women would be put into chains, sold into slavery, and treated like third class citizens.

Advertisement

In other words, it would be like an Islamic state, but they can’t bring themselves to say that.

The whole point of the wailing and gnashing of the teeth is that if women lost access to abortion, then women aren’t truly free. They consider it control over their bodies. The pattern is that it completely focuses on them, and not the baby they’re murdering. Ya know, the other body they’re asserting control over without any sense of irony.

But now they’ve gone a step further. Recently Planned Parenthood, the abortion goliath, promoted from this from their Twitter account.

The Hyde Amendment punishes poor women, pushes abortion out of reach, and is bad for the economy. https://t.co/Ah7oEZL2IS #BeBoldEndHyde pic.twitter.com/BD2LhsbCxR Enter Your Email And Get Our Latest 10 Posts Emailed Daily Email * Advertisement — Planned Parenthood (@PPact) October 3, 2016



This links to an article which The Nation released, written by Kate Bahn and Jamila Taylor, two women who work for the Center of American progress. In this article, Bahn and Taylor assert that the Hyde Amendment is restricting access to abortion, and thus, the Hyde Amendment is bad for the economy.

Advertisement

Hyde is often siloed as a “women’s issue.” But when women cannot control their bodies and their reproductive futures, it is more difficult for them to advance economically. And since women make up more than half of the US population, it matters when something holds women back.

Good lawd. First off, in order for this phrase to be accurate, it has to assume that women do not have control over their bodies. They very much do. While rapes do occur, less than 1% of abortions happen as the result of a rape. So the vast majority of these women are in this situation because they chose to have sex with a man. Perhaps their birth control failed, or they just weren’t careful. Either way, the risk was undertaken with their full consent, and as a consequence, nature happened.