http://www.airforce-technology.com/news/newsnigerian-air-force-to-double-personnel-to-counter-boko-haram-4787907
202
20
Nigerian Air Force to double personnel to counter Boko Haram

19 January 2016 19 January 2016

The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) will double the intake of personnel this year to fight Boko Haram, an Islamic extremist group based in the north-eastern part of the country.

The West African country expects to add around 2,100 new personnel to its air force.

NAF also plans to implement strategies such as the establishment of partnerships with other countries to improve training, facilities, as well as curriculum review in NAF training schools, reported Tribune Online.

"The Nigerian military has appealed to the international community for assistance, following a recent attack on the north-eastern town of Baga."

Nigerian Air Force Chief of Air Staff air marshal Sadique Abubakar told the publication that the NAF Training Agenda 2016 aims to promote the desire for 'human capacity development through robust and result oriented training for enhanced professional performance'.

Recently, around 35 British Army soldiers from the Royal Anglian Regiment (2 R ANGLIAN) were deployed to support Nigerian armed forces in the fight against Boko Haram.

The UK has committed to double the number of personnel deployed on training tasks in Nigeria during 2016.

The Nigerian military has appealed to the international community for assistance, following a recent attack on the north-eastern town of Baga.

Boko Haram attacked Baga and the surrounding villages after overrunning the headquarters of the Multinational Joint Task Force, which consists of soldiers from Nigeria, Niger and Chad. The group reportedly killed 2,000 people.

Claimed to be the deadliest massacre in the group's five-year insurgency, the attack wounded hundreds of civilians, and forced atleast 20,000 to flee.

Around 130 UK military personnel are currently carrying out training tasks in Nigeria.

Related Content