http://www.christiansinpakistan.com/christian-persecution-at-peak-2015-was-most-violent-year-in-modern-history-of-christianity/
202
20
Christian persecution at peak: 2015 was most violent year in modern history of Christianity

2015 was “most violent” year for Christians in modern history, as the persecution level rose to “a level akin to ethnic cleansing,” according to a new report.

According to a recent report compiled by Open Doors USA, persecution of Christians globally has reached an unprecedented level. The survey carried out by the Open Doors, revealed that more than 7,100 Christians were killed last year for “faith-related reasons.” This figure revealed a rise of 3,000 from 2014 (Figures from North Korea, Iraq and Syria not included) Additionally, in 2015; 2,400 churches were either damaged or attacked across the globe.

As detailed in this report Christian persecution “any hostility experienced as a result of one’s identification with Christ.” This persecution may vary from “imprisonment, torture, beheadings, rape, expatriation, loss of a job, rejection from a community, discrimination and many more.”

In line with this report, majority of persecution which Christians are facing is primarily in Muslim nations, most of which are “failed states” that in the first place fall short to protecting the religious freedom and liberty of their citizens.

Also Read: A list of top 50 countries most dangerous for Christians to live in

The rising trends of Islamic (terrorist) groups which are based on various factions have played a major role in promoting persecution of Christians. Apart from Christians, other denominations of Muslims other than Sunnis, Yazidis and various other religious minorities also had a rough year.

In a list of top 50 countries where Christian persecution at peak included North Korea at the top, Iraq on number two. While Eritrea ranked at number 3, Afghanistan ranked at number 4. Syria was ranked at number 5 in this list. Pakistan ranks at number 6, followed by Somalia at number 7. Sudan follows at number 8, while Iran comes at number 9. Libya ranks at number 10.

The dismal report further highlighted the fact the Islamic terrorist groups like ISIS and several others are taking roots not only in the Middle East but also around the world. The President and CEO of Open Doors, David Curry expressed hope that this recent list would shed light on the plight of Christians across the globe as they face a “total lack of religious freedom,” forced migration and even genocide.