https://article.wn.com/view/2016/10/11/Gujarat_riots_accused_who_escaped_India_by_jumping_bail_held/
138
13
Ahmedabad : An accused in a case related to post-Godhra riot at Ode village in Anand district who had escaped to UK by jumping his bail has been detained by London police and would be brought back by the Special Investigation Team ( SIT )

London: A 40-year-old man wanted in India in connection with post-Godhra riots in Gujarat in 2002 will be extradited from the UK to stand trial in India, UK Home Office...

AHMEDABAD: Samir Patel, 35 an absconder who had jumped bail in 2002 post-Godhra massacre at Ode village of Anand was brought to Ahmedabad from London by Special...

AHMEDABAD: Samir Patel, 35, who jumped bail in the 2002 post-Godhra massacre case of Ode village in Anand was brought to Ahmedabad from London by officials of the Special...

An accused in a case related to post-Godhra riot at Ode village in Anand, who had escaped to UK by jumping his bail, has been detained by London police and will be brought...

AHMEDABAD: An accused in a case related to post-Godhra riot at Ode village in Anand district who had escaped to UK by jumping his bail has been detained by London police...

If Clinton wins, more in GOP say no to 9 on Supreme Court

Hillary Clinton and the FBI: acrimony could leave US more divided than ever

Related News

Gujarat riots accused extradited from UK A 40-year-old man wanted in connection with the 2002 post-Godhra riots in Gujarat was today extradited from the UK to stand trial in India, becoming the first person to be sent back from Britain 24 years after the two countries signed an extradition treaty. Samirbhai Vinubhai Patel had been arrested by Scotland Yard in west London in August on a Red Corner Notice issued by... Deccan Herald





Gujarat riots accused brought from London; sent to jail in Anand Anand: An accused in a post-Godhra riots case in Ode village of Anand district of Gujarat was on Wednesday brought from London, where he was arrested, and produced before a local court, which remanded him in 14-day judicial custody. Samir Patel, who had escaped to UK after jumping bail, was brought to India in the wee hours of Wednesday by the Special Investigation Team (SIT)... Deccan Chronicle





24 years on, UK extradites first in list of India’s most wanted in Gujarat riots London: A 40-year-old man wanted in connection with the 2002 post-Godhra riots in Gujarat was on Tuesday extradited from the UK to stand trial in India, becoming the first person to be sent back from Britain 24 years after the two countries signed an extradition treaty. Samirbhai Vinubhai Patel had been arrested by Scotland Yard in west London in August on a Red Corner Notice... Deccan Chronicle





Two Ode massacre accused traced to the US and UK AHMEDABAD: Two absconding accused in the Ode massacre case, Natu Patel and Samir Patel, have been located in the US and UK respectively. Special Investigation Team (SIT) officials said they have asked the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to bring them back to India. The SIT had earlier located three absconding accused, Ankur Shahpur, Samip Patel and Nikul Patel, in Australia,... The Times of India



