http://www.timesofisrael.com/dozens-of-homes-said-set-to-be-approved-in-east-jerusalem/
203
20
The Jerusalem city council will next week reportedly approve plans for the construction of dozens of homes in Gilo, a Jewish neighborhood that sits over the Green Line on land captured in the 1967 war.

The new construction, on territory regarded by Israel as part of its capital city but widely seen internationally as disputed land, is to be green-lighted by the city’s planning committee after years of delay, Israel’s Channel 2 said.

It added that the move would likely infuriate the US administration, which considers building in such areas to constitute settlement expansion.

The TV report, which was not confirmed by the municipality, also quoted an unnamed senior source in the municipality claiming that numerous other plans for building in East Jerusalem neighborhoods were now being “taken out of the freezer” and would be approved in the next few months, as the Obama administration nears the end of its term. Projects “big and small” will be approved, the source was quoted as saying, and “never mind the political pressure.”

The Gilo construction consists of three buildings containing “dozens of apartments,” the TV report said. It said the construction contract has been awarded to a company that builds homes for ultra-Orthodox Jews.

The Obama administration routinely and bitterly criticizes the Netanyahu government for building in the West Bank and East Jerusalem, since it considers such construction to undermine efforts for a negotiated Israeli-Palestinian peace agreement.

Hailing the new US-Israel military aid package on Wednesday, President Barack Obama said the unprecedented $38-billion, 10-year agreement would help Israel to defend itself, but stressed that “the only way for Israel to endure and thrive as a Jewish and democratic state is through the realization of an independent and viable Palestine.”

Dan Shapiro, the US Ambassador to Israel, told Channel 2 Thursday night that Obama will “do everything he can” in his final months in power to ensure that the two-state solution remains viable.

Shapiro also said there was “no decision” yet on whether Obama and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu would meet in the coming weeks. Netanyahu flies to the UN General Assembly next week.

Last week, Washington fumed publicly at comments made by Netanyahu in a video in which he accused the Palestinians of advocating ethnic cleansing of the Jewish population in the West Bank.

US State Department spokeswoman Elizabeth Trudeau told reporters last Friday that, the administration is “engaging in direct conversations with the Israeli government” about the video.

“We obviously strongly disagree with the characterization that those who oppose settlement activity or view it as an obstacle to peace are somehow calling for ethnic cleansing of Jews from the West Bank. We believe that using that type of terminology is inappropriate and unhelpful,” Trudeau said.

She said Israel expansion of settlements raises “real questions about Israel’s long-term intentions in the West Bank.”

Netanyahu on Friday decried what he said was the world’s silence on the issue.

Speaking in English in a video message posted on his Facebook page, Netanyahu asked whether people in other parts of the world would accept such demands in their own countries.

It’s “outrageous that the world doesn’t find it outrageous,” Netanyahu said, urging viewers to ask themselves whether they would accept “a territory without Jews, without Hispanics, without blacks” in their nation.

“Since when is bigotry a foundation for peace?” he asked.

“At this moment, Jewish schoolchildren in Judea [and] Samaria are playing in sandboxes with their friends,” he said, referring to the West Bank by its biblical Hebrew name. “Does their presence make peace impossible? I don’t think so.”