http://www.libertyroundtable.com/2016/01/19/oregon-protest-update/
202
20
Oregon Protest Update

Written by Joel Skousen // January 19, 2016 // Politics // No comments

An Idaho militia group arrived at the wildlife refuge this week to help ensure that a Waco style massacre didn’t occur in Oregon. Oregon Live filed this report:

Members of a group from outside Oregon arrived on Friday at the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge to “secure a perimeter” around the compound and prevent “a Waco-style situation.” The arrival of the “3% of Idaho” was the latest development in the situation outside Burns, where an armed occupation of the refuge by an Ammon Bundy-led militant group entered its seventh day.

“If they weren’t here,” Bundy said, referring to the Idaho group, “I’d worry” about a Waco-style siege by federal officials.

However, even though supportive of the militia concept, Ammon Bundy declined to accept the Idaho militia’s help. I think he felt it would invite an armed federal response to the threat rather than avoid it. The group arrived just a few hours after Bundy had refused Sheriff Dave Ward’s offer of safe passage out of the area if they were to stand down. I think they should have accepted the offer to leave after holding a press conference to once again air the local rancher complaints and call for the release of the Hammond father and son, now in prison. ABC News added these points:

Earlier this week there was a fistfight between rival groups seeking attention or a way to press their own case for change. “We are here to create a safety buffer,” 3 percent leader Brandon Curtiss told the media, but not long after that, Curtiss and his followers came back from inside the reserve and left, after being told they were not needed.

There are no high profile federal law enforcement agencies at the ready — no armored cars or FBI agents roaming the streets. In fact it’s difficult to find any representative of the federal government.

The federal agencies may not have been visible to the press but they were doing some black operations meant to discredit the protestors. I got the first hint of something wrong when I saw a town meeting the Sheriff called at a local school where CNN related the following:

Since those occupying the Malheur Wildlife Refuge came to town, there has been an increase in the number of “vandalism, harassment and intimidation reports,” Harney County Sheriff Dave Ward said.

“There are continual reports of law enforcement officers and community members being followed home; of people sitting in cars outside their homes, observing their movements and those of their families; and of people following them and their families as they move around the community,” Ward said on Monday.

Ward didn’t realize he and his department have been set up to blame the protestors. In fact, these were most likely FBI agents dressed up like militia, poisoning the local population against the protestors. It seems to be working. When CNN interviewed locals after the meeting, they were all calling for the protestors to go home. But here’s the real story from Redoubt News:

The BIG bombshell coming out-of-Burns overnight is the resignation and announcement by the Burns Fire Marshall that he confronted what appeared to be militia types, scoping-out the armory. When he confronted the men, they presented their FBI credentials.

Nevada Assemblywoman Michele Fiore of Nevada & COWS (Coalition of Western States) has released a statement regarding the Oregon Standoff.

“I just got off the phone with the former Fire Chief of Burns, Chris Briels, the Burns Fire Chief from 1984 to 2006. When he retired in 2006 the county asked him to stay on as the county Fire Marshall. According to the conversation I had with Chief Briels today at 12:26pm Pacific time, he disclosed to me that the Sheriff’s office and Judge Grasty has been telling the community that the “militia” have been following and harassing people. Chief Briels observed what he thought was “militia” poking around the Armory and following townspeople so he took it upon himself to pull them over. According to Chief Briels these men posing as “militia” were the FBI.

Chief Briels was so upset he has just resigned as the county Fire Marshall. He has gone public with this information.” Here’s the video coverage from a local news station, Portland News 2 They only mentioned at the very last that Briels was deeply concerned about the FBI running around dressed like militia.

This story does not specifically give evidence that the FBI was going around harassing and intimidating people, but they were posing as militia in dress. Besides, the protestors had no motivation to be antagonizing the locals—just the opposite—they have been trying to encourage locals to stand up to the feds, and many are.

Bundy has said he and his group will leave when the residents are organized and able to get a “redress of their grievances,” but even the community activist group he helped start, the Harney County Committee on Safety, has sent a letter to Bundy thanking him but telling him and all those at the refuge that it’s time to go.

Federal Documents at the Refuge: The Bundy group of protestors has found a considerable trove of documents and paper files at the refuge, and they are currently reviewing them to see if they can find evidence of conspiracy to provoke ranchers or deny them water and grazing rights. This could change the entire nature of the conflict if evidence can be found. The group is not, however, trying to break into government computers, which might hold the best evidence.

After the news conference, where Bundy announced the find, his group drove to a ranch near the refuge and tore down a stretch of government-erected fence that was blocking the rancher’s access to traditional grazing rights. The news video showed them using government equipment from the wildlife refuge—which may add to their difficulties later on if prosecuted.

The FBI has taken charge of this situation and has exacerbated the locals’ fear by closing down schools and barricading government offices, which is totally unnecessary being 40 miles away.

But the alternative media is also a little too quick to bring out sensational charges. The most prominent was the claim that Sheriff David Ward used to work for the BLM and actually testified against the Hammonds, inferring that he is therefore biased against the Hammonds. Here’s the claim by normally reliable Conservative Treehouse.

A David Ward formerly worked for the Federal Bureau of Land Management and appears to have actually been a witness against the Hammond family in the ridiculous federal terrorism trial back in 2012… Was current Sheriff David Ward the Federal Land Management employee who was witness #11 in the trial against the Hammond family? From the transcript:

“Before September 30, 1999, Ward worked with Steven and Dwight Hammond in Sections 15 and 16 with the intent to do a cooperative prescribed burn after preparing a plan and doing an environmental study. Ward thought a burn would improve the range conditions. Ward had not been provided notice that Steven and Dwight Hammond intended to do a “controlled” burn on Sunday, September 30, 2001. Ward learned of the burn on September 30, 2001.

Obviously, if that “Rangeland Specialist” Dave Ward is now Sheriff Dave Ward, he would not want the larger public to understand his complicity in the prosecution of the Hammond family. Nor would he have any motive or intent to protect Dwight or Steven Hammond from the appealed second set of sentences which were demanded by activist U.S. Attorney Amanda Marshall. Why would he protect them, when he testified against them?

However, a simple internet search of Sheriff Ward’s bio shows that he was in full-time employment in law enforcement as early as 2002.

Missing the structure offered the military, he went back into the Army in 1998, serving a four-year hitch at a Texas base on a crew tending Patriot missiles. He started in law enforcement as a corrections deputy in Lake County in 2002. By the time he applied to become Harney County sheriff in late 2014, Ward had worked as a jailer, a patrol deputy and a probation officer.

While Ward has taken a semi-hostile position against the protest, I think there is evidence that he has little choice, given the FBI claiming superior jurisdiction. Ward considers himself a defender of the constitution saying, “I’ve spent many years of my life serving our country, stateside and abroad, to protect the constitution and believe it is the sheriff’s responsibility to protect each person’s rights under the constitution of the United States.”

He may not fully understand this duty to stand up to federal acts which are unconstitutional, but I have to give him credit for negotiating directly with Bundy, offering safe passage out, even though the FBI disapproved strongly. They didn’t want the protestors to have a way out. Despite the offer of safe passage out of the county, Bundy declined, reiterating his demands that the refuge be returned to ranchers and that the Hammonds be released. He may regret that decision.

Meanwhile, Hillary Clinton told the Las Vegas Sun last week that Ammon Bundy and the occupiers in Oregon should be arrested and prosecuted, according to infowars.com:

“They should leave—leave peacefully—but they should be charged for the illegal action they have undertaken, trespassing, breaking and entering and the like,” Clinton said. She also said the occupiers are “potentially posing a threat to law enforcement and civilians” despite the fact they have not used violence and have stated repeatedly they do not plan on using violence unless attacked by the government.

Of course, we should not expect a newspaper published by a man who was a college roommate of Hillary’s husband [Sheldon Adelson, who just bought the paper] and who was a house guest during a Clinton fundraising trip to southern Nevada to ask those sort of questions.