http://21stcenturywire.com/2015/03/10/liebermans-final-solution-behead-arabs-who-arent-loyal-to-israel/
203
20
By

21st Century Wire says…

If foreign minister Avigdor Lieberman was from any other country, the US and European media and their governments would condemn his barbaric fascist comments advocating ethnic cleansing.

On Sunday, Lieberman demanded total submission from any Arabs living on Israel’s side of the wall: “Those who are against us, there’s nothing to be done – we need to pick up an ax and cut off his head – otherwise we won’t survive here.”

In response, the Palestinian Authority has called for Lieberman to be arrested following his vicious remarks outlining his own ‘final solution’ for roughly 20 percent of Israel’s population.

The fact remains that Israel’s policy of ethnic cleansing is very real, and still ongoing. What is ethnic cleansing?

“Encyclopedia Britannica defines ethnic cleansing as “the attempt to create ethnically homogeneous geographic areas through the deportation or forcible displacement of persons belonging to particular ethnic groups.” In the modern era an international consensus has emerged that ethnic cleansing is a war crime and a crime against humanity. In some cases the United Nations (UN) has declared ethnic cleansing a form of genocide. The human rights movement and international humanitarian law furthermore assert that anyone who has been victimized by ethnic cleansing has the right to return to their home. In resolving the ethnic conflict in the Balkans in the 1990s, for example, displaced persons who had been ethnically cleansed were allowed safe passage and the right to return to their homes as part of the Dayton Accord that ended the conflict. The International Criminal Court also indicted those responsible for the ethnic cleansing in the Balkans, and several persons were brought to trial facing war crime charges. Ever since the United Nations adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights following the end of World War II in 1945, the Declaration’s Article 13 has enshrined the right of return, stipulating that “Everyone has the right to leave any country, including his own, and to return to his country.” Not only is ethnic cleansing illegal, but also the legal and just remedy is to restore the rights of those who were deported or forcibly displaced to return to their original homes. That right, however, has never been accorded the Palestinian people.” (Source: Seamac.org)

Jewish writer Gideon Levy also states, “While we are still desperately concealing, denying and repressing our major ethnic cleansing of 1948 – over 600,000 refugees, some who fled for fear of the Israel Defense Forces and its predecessors, some who were expelled by force – it turns out that 1948 never ended, that its spirit is still with us.”

Why is this man’s violently racist remarks OK with moral gatekeepers in Washington?



Middle East Monitor

Israeli Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman yesterday threatening to cut off with an axe the heads of Arab-Israeli citizens who are not loyal to the state.



“Those with us, should receive everything” in terms of rights, he says, according to Israel’s Channel 2.

“Those against us, it cannot be helped, we must lift up an axe and behead them – otherwise we will not survive here,” Lieberman said during an election rally in the western city of Herzliya.

He, meanwhile, added that there was no reason for Umm Al-Fahm, an Arab city in northern Israel, to continue to be part of his country.

Israel took control of the city in 1949 in the light of the Armistice Agreement between Israel and Jordan. It is the third largest Arab city in Israel.

During yesterday’s rally, Lieberman said those who raised the black flag of Nakba Day in mourning over the establishment of Israel, did not deserve to belong to the state of Israel.

“I am quite willing to donate them [the people who raise the black flags] to PA chief Mahmoud Abbas,” Lieberman said. “It would be my pleasure.”…

Continue this story at Middle East Monitor

READ MORE ISRAEL NEWS AT: 21st Century Wire Israel Files