http://en.farsnews.com/newstext.aspx?nn=13950226001210
202
20
World

Senior Militant Sending Assets From Turkey to ISIL in Iraq Identified

TEHRAN (FNA)- A senior ISIL militant who is residing in Turkey is in charge of sending the terrorist group's assets to Western Iraq.

Soheil Khala who is originally from the town of Tal Afar in Iraqi Nineveh province is living in Turkey and he smuggles huge amount of properties belonging to the ISIL to the Takfiri terrorists in Mosul province in Western Iraq.

Soheil has been in Iraq's wanted list since 2013 and has fled to Turkey after his brother Ayad Khala and his friend were killed in an airstrike in Mosul.

Head of Nineveh Journalists' Association Ra'afat Zardari said Ayad Khala had been killed in his car in an airstrike in al-Muthana street in the Western part Mosul city.

"Soheil is the brother of Ayad who was himself one of ISIL's biggest investors in charge of receiving the financial aids from foreign countries and backers," the Arabic-language media outlets quoted Zardari as saying.

He noted that Soheil has fled Nineveh province because of numerous crimes he has committed against the civilians.

On Saturday, the media reports said that the secret classified documents reveal that Ankara has turned blind eye to the ISIL activities in Turkey.

These 422 pages of classified documents contain blood-chilling information regarding terrorist activities in Turkey.

These documents classified as secret material, contain huge amounts of information regarding the activities of ISIL militants in Kilis and Gaziantep, Sputnik reported.

They also show that all the crossings of thousands of terrorists at the Turkish-Syrian border were known to the Turkish authorities, and despite that, they did not take any action.

Erdem, commenting on this information, said that in Kilis, Gaziantep and across Turkey dangerous processes are taking place to which the government turns a blind eye. “I am speaking here as a deputy, whose duty is to control what is happening. The documents that I present to you, is a living proof of what kind of dirty games the AKP government is involved in.”

He showed the documents containing the phone records of one of the organizers of the terrorist attacks in Turkey, İlhami Balı, known in the ranks of the jihadists, as Abu Bakr.

“These entries recorded comprehensive information such as which hotel the terrorists are going to stay in, where they will wait for their car, which gas station they will use for refueling in a mosque in Kilis, how many people and who exactly would be responsible for the preparation of a terrorist attack."

“Despite the fact that all this information was in the hands of the authorities, the security forces had not carried out any operations to detain terrorists. I ask one very simple question: why were these terrorists not arrested?” Erdem pointed out.

The deputy further spoke about how the Safety Authority tapped and recorded all phone conversations of the terrorists.

“For example, Ilhami Bali asks his interlocutor: ‘How many people have crossed?’ He is wondering how many militants crossed the Turkish-Syrian border. At the other end of the line the man answered ‘175 crossed into Syria.’ He added, ‘No, I mean in the opposite direction.’ The man answers 1,128 people.’”

“Do you understand what these figures mean? 1,128 jihadists crossing the border at the same time in a place known to intelligent agencies, but no one even thought to organize an operation to detain them. Control on the border areas is zero,” the deputy stressed.

The documents sent to the Municipality of Ankara Provincial Security Department, provide information showing that Ilham Bali is the organizer of terrorist attacks in Ankara and Suruç, and is also responsible for the collection of weapons and ammunition for ISIL.

According to Bali these documents contain hundreds of addresses, telephone conversations and other information. They also show that all the ISIL militants are being treated in Turkey; there are details of how much money is spent on maintenance and treatment of these jihadists in district hospitals.

“Prosecutors in Turkey have not yet opened a single judicial investigation regarding these hospitals, these doctors. Why are the authorities who arrest civilians for distributing leaflets at Taksim, turning a blind eye to the activities of terrorists and do not initiate operations against them?”

“This is not negligence; it is clearly a thought out, deliberate action strategy. You have all the necessary information, but you do not take any action. So, you, for whatever reasons, are covering the activities of a terrorist organization,” Bali stressed.

At the end of the press conference Eren Erdem stressed that he constantly receives death threats, but is not afraid to tell the truth, and intends to continue doing so in the future.