http://www.thedailystar.net/backpage/friendship-israel-political-suicide-1224142
203
20
Friendship with Israel, which is perpetrating atrocities against Palestinian people, would be an act of “political suicide” for any political party in Bangladesh, Palestinian Charge d'Affairs in Dhaka Yousef S Y Ramadan said yesterday.

“It would be their political suicide if any political party and its leaders try to build relations with any political party, its leaders and even the intelligence agency of Israel.... This act would do more harm for the party than for the Palestine people,” he told journalists after a press conference at the Palestine embassy.

The envoy said this when his comment was sought on the recent meeting between BNP Joint Secretary General Aslam Chowdhury and Israeli Likud Party leader Mendi N Safadi in Agra, India.

He asserted that Bangladesh's relations with Palestine are solid as all Bangladeshis irrespective of political and religious beliefs are very supportive of the legitimate cause of the oppressed Palestinians.

The press conference marked the 68th anniversary of the “Nakba Day”. Al Nakba means “The Catastrophe” that refers to the destruction of hundreds of cities and villages in historical Palestine and the expulsion of hundred and thousands of Palestinians from their ancestral homes to make way for new state of Israel in 1948.

Replying to a question, Ramadan said the BNP chief should take necessary action against Aslam Chowdhury to send a clear message to the party members and its leaders that such a meeting is "forbidden" and it goes against the party's policy.

About his meeting with BNP Secretary General Mirza Fakhrul Islam Alamgir, he said the BNP leader assured him that the party has no relations with Israel as it is very much supportive of the legitimate rights of Palestinians.

“He [Aslam Chowdhury] didn't know the man from Israel and everything happened mistakenly,” the envoy said quoting Fakhrul.

He added that the BNP secretary general even made a press statement denying BNP's relations with Israel.

Asked to comment on the ongoing trial of the suspected war criminals, he categorically said it was internal affairs of Bangladesh and nobody from outside should make a comment on the issue.

“We, the Palestinians, are sorry for the killing and massacre that happened in Bangladesh in 1971.... Nobody should support atrocities and killings.”

On Bangladesh-Palestine ties, Ramadan said the relations between the two countries have taken a solid foundation over the years since 1971.