http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/i-feared-life-war-hero-9020476
130
13
John Norwood has been jailed for 8 years

A young soldier has spoken of his 'terror' after a colour sergeant attacked him with a machete in revenge following a pub brawl.

Lance Sergeant James Warnock, 24, described the moment he feared for his life when John Norwood laid into him with the massive blade.

Norwood - a convicted killer before joining the army - was jailed for eight years, reports the Daily Record .

Scots Guard Norwood, 39, who also auditioned for the X Factor, sliced James’s shoulder to the bone at their barracks in Aldershot after the younger man hit him in a pub row.

In a statement to Portsmouth Crown Court James, who has twice served in Afghanistan, said: “I have known danger and faced enemy troops during these tours.

James Warnock has spoken of his terror

Facebook John Norwood attacked his fellow soldier with a machete

“The attack on me by John Norwood left me terrified for my own safety in my own camp environment where I should be safe and secure.

“I can only describe how I felt as horrifying.

"Seeing my mum think she might lose her son was perhaps more upsetting than the assault.”

David Richards, prosecuting, told the court James’s injuries meant he could no longer hold a weapon and he faces a possible medical discharge from the Army.

Dad-of-two Norwood was convicted of wounding with intent in August.

Norwood was a convicted killer before joining the army

PA The machete used by colour sergeant John Norwood

It then emerged he was locked up for the culpable homicide of his uncle Matthew Houston in 1996 when he was just 19.

He hit Matthew, 35, so hard he fell from a balcony but was judged to not be wholly responsible for the death because his victim had refused medical treatment.

Matthew’s sister Rose said she was always convinced Norwood would strike again.

She added: “I knew it was only a matter of time.”

The colour sergeant was a budding actor earlier in his life

Getty Norwood was convicted at Plymouth Crown Court

Norwood was also jailed for two years in 2000 for three counts of wounding after a pub fight in Burnley.

His conviction for culpable homicide ended a budding acting career which had included roles in the film Small Faces and Irvine Welsh’s Acid House.

On his release, Norwood, who also failed in his bid for stardom on The X Factor, forged a career in the Army.