http://www.dailytelegraph.com.au/news/world/brekkie-wrap-mums-outrage-at-spelling-mistakes-in-sons-homework--made-by-his-teacher/news-story/4a9e1bb4b7b465c596d131a4968e1c9d?nk=ba6e8a600a854911fcc98d1e78fd7f8a-1453161769
202
20
A TEACHER has been left red-faced after giving students spelling homework riddled with, er, spelling mistakes.

The task, supposedly designed to help year six students prepare for their upcoming Standard Assessment Tests in the UK, asked parents to help their children learn six words for an upcoming test.

But out of the six words listed — accommodate, communicate, equip, immediately, physical and sincerely — the male teacher had misspelt two of them.

The word ‘immediately’ contained an extra ‘e’, while ‘sincerely’ had a misplaced final ‘e’ before the ‘y’.

My son has spellings from school that they want him to learn. I'm currently holding my head and sighing. pic.twitter.com/OUtVzXAVPj — Amanda (@Pandamoanimum) January 17, 2016

There was also a typo in the final sentence of the instructions to parents, where the word ‘you’ should have read ‘your’.

An irate mum, who goes by the name Amanda on Twitter, posted a snap of the offending homework with the caption: “My son has spellings from school that they want him to learn. I’m currently holding my head and sighing.”

Several Twitter users accused Amanda of faking the printed homework, but the disgruntled mum assured users the note was genuine.

“I will be, of course, going into the school and questioning why something so littered with errors was sent home,” she wrote.

Paul Milat: The world owes me 0:32 Paul Milat, brother of serial killer Ivan Milat, believes he is entitled to free rent and government welfare because of his surname. Courtesy: A Current Affair/Nine Network Paul Milat: The world owes me

IN NATIONAL NEWS

— JAILED serial killer Ivan Milat’s younger brother launched into a foul-mouthed tirade when approached by a TV crew about an alleged tenancy dispute.

— TREASURER Scott Morrison believes the economy remains sound despite “worrying” volatility in global markets and sharp falls on the Aussie share market.

— SHARK sightings are common, but a seven-metre great white spotted offshore has been described as the “biggest ever seen”.

— UNSETTLING footage of a woman being shoved in the neck by a cop as her son is arrested has drawn accusations of racism and brutality by Queensland police.

Surrogate swindler conned £8k from desperate parents with fake pregnancy https://t.co/JWJOpSxF7w pic.twitter.com/Yn2tjlWHo9 — The Sun (@TheSun) January 18, 2016

IN WORLD NEWS

— A SURROGATE swindler charged a desperate couple $16,000 to carry their baby. When she failed to deliver, she broke the news in the most horrific way.

— A BELGIAN man “directly linked” to the ISIS terrorists who massacred 130 people in Paris last November has been arrested in Morocco.

— POLICE are investigating a letter warning that two more Bali cities could be terror targets after the recent Jakarta attacks, according to reports.

— BRITISH MPs are to debate a call for US presidential hopeful Donald Trump to be banned from the UK over his remarks about Muslims.

— A YOUNG boy who escaped the Islamic State has told of how they tried to brainwash him and other children to murder their parents.

— HILLARY Clinton’s response to a question on her relationship with Russian President Vladimir Putin had her briefly lost for a proper answer.

media_camera New romance? ... Prince Harry is said to be off the dating market after finding love with a Greek princess. Picture: Chris Jackson/Getty Images

IN SHOWBIZ NEWS

— PRINCE Harry is said to be off the dating market after finding love with a Greek princess.

— KHLOE Kardashian has revealed that Kim isn’t the only one with a sex tape, after disclosing that she and Lamar made a home movie of their own.

— LEGENDARY crooner Don McLean has been arrested at his US mansion for domestic violence assault.

Originally published as Teacher’s shocking spelling blunders