http://www.cjnews.com/news/international/your-daily-spiel-for-tuesday-april-26
202
20
Your Daily Spiel is The CJN‘s daily roundup of trending stories in the Jewish world.

Want to receive The Spiel daily in your inbox? Click Here.

Your Ward News hates Muslims, gays and Jews. Ottawa lawyer Richard Warman has filed a complaint against Canada Post for delivering copies of Your Ward News, a controversial newspaper Warman alleges is “misogynist, racist, anti-Jewish, anti-Muslim and homophobic hate propaganda.” He’s not far off. “By knowingly distributing hate propaganda and profiting from it, [Canada Post and the government of Canada] have engaged in discriminatory conduct,” Warman asserts. Canada Post workers, who have no say over what’s delivered, have welcomed Warman’s complaint.

And you said birdwatching was boring? An Israeli birdwatcher found a 3,700-year-old scarab seal at an ancient port near Haifa, the city’s university announced Sunday. The seal is believed to have belonged to an Egyptian official of the Thirteenth Pharaonic dynasty dating back to at least 18th century BCE. “The scarab belonged to a very senior figure in the kingdom, probably the viceroy responsible for the royal treasury,” Ayelet Gilboa of the University of Haifa said in a statement.

Boycott, Divestment and Superman. Lebanon’s branch of the BDS movement is urging its government to ban Batman vs. Superman: Dawn of Justice because it features Israeli actress Gal Gadot. “This actress served in the IDF and was crowned the beauty queen of Israel. She also revealed her support for the IDF during the last war in Gaza,” wrote a spokesperson for the movement. Is it just me, or does this not seem fairly childish? Luckily for the Lebanese, the film hasn’t received the best reviews so far…

A #BDSFail of epic proportions. According to an Israeli security source, Israeli security technology was offered to France following last year’s Charlie Hebdo and Hyper Cacher attacks, but ultimately refused, the source says, due to “higher level instruction not to buy Israeli tech.” So basically, BDS may have prevented France (and consequently Belgium) from buying high-technology that possibly could have prevented terrorist attacks on French and Belgian soil.

Another day, another anti-Semitic Labour MP. Britain’s Labour Party clearly has an anti-Semitism problem, as its members continue to get reprimanded for the anti-Semitic and anti-Israel rhetoric they’ve shared via social media. The latest to get called out is lawmaker Naz Shah, who once suggested that the entirety of Israel should pack up and ‘relocate’ to the United States. “Palestinians will get their land and life back,” she wrote. And pro-Palestinian activists accuse Israel of ethnic cleansing? Shah has since “apologized” but it’s hard to take her seriously, just like the other Labour members who have been exposed.

Super Tuesday 4: The Bern ain’t so bright anymore. With primaries in five states today, and with Hillary Clinton expected to win big across the board, this could be the beginning of the end for Senator Bernie Sanders.

David Duchovny wrote a book starring a pig named Shalom. No this is not a joke. Holy Cow, an animated book by the X-Files actor, follows the story of a cow, a pig (who converts to Judaism) and a turkey that realize they’ll be tomorrow’s leftovers if they stay on a farm. So, to avoid sure death, they take off for India (where cows are sacred), Israel (where pigs aren’t eaten), and…..well….Turkey. This actually looks like an awesome read.

Click here for yesterday’s edition of Your Daily Spiel

Sign up to receive The Spiel to your inbox everyday.

Send ideas, news items to dkoren@thecjn.ca