http://dailypost.ng/2016/04/26/enugu-massacre-leave-our-land-now-massob-warns-herdsmen/
201
20
The Movement for the Actualization of Sovereign State of Biafra, MASSOB, has warned Fulani herdsmen to relocate from the South-East zone.

The warning which was handed down on Tuesday in a statement by the group’s spokesman, Comrd. Edeson Samuel, was sequel to the killings at Uzo-Uwani Council Area of Enugu State on Monday.

The statement read: “MASSOB condemns the attack on Biafrans by Fulani herdsmen at Uzo-uwani L.G.A Enugu State. We wish to remind Ndigbo and Biafrans that this killing and destruction of property of our people by Fulani herdsmen is getting out of hand.

“The fact that MASSOB believes in non violence does not mean that we cannot defend ourselves. There is a limit to human endurance.

“It is a pity that the Amnesty International has never for one day write a report against Nigerian military and Fulani herdsmen over the killing of our people. The massacre of MASSOB/IPOB members in Aba, the Ezu-River, killing of six Igbo traders in Abuja (the Apo six) the invasion of Igbo land by the Fulani herdsmen, all these, Amnesty International has not and will never see reasons to indict Nigerian Government because they are being controlled by the North.

“A lot of crime has been committed against the Easterners but the Amnesty International kept mute, but if it were in the north, it will quickly write a report. Shame to the leadership of Amnesty International.

“Fulani herdsmen invaded Ukpabi Nimbo in Uzo-Uwani L.G.A. of Enugu State. Killing of over 130 people, many houses, vehicles, motorbike were set ablaze. It is on record that Nigerian police received security report on Friday 22/04/2016 that over 500 Fulani herdsmen gathered in that community to attack them.

“This ethnic cleansing was planned against Ndigbo in 2003. Now that power has gone to the Fulani, they began the execution of this evil agenda.

“MASSOB is calling on all the pro-Biafra groups and Igbo youths to wake up and let us unite and face our enermies.

“We are warning the Fulani herdsmen to leave Biafra land or they will face our wrath.

“MASSOB is also calling on the international community, the United Nations (UN) Europen Union (EU), African Union (AU) to come to our aid because the agenda of President Mohammadu Buhari and his kinsmen is to exterminate Ndigbo and Biafrans from the face of the earth.

“It is time for the people of Kogi, Benue and Plataue State to rise up and defend their land and save their people from this Fulani herdsmen because a stitch in time saves nine.

“The Nigerian army, who knows how to arrest innocent citizens in Awgu L.G.A. of Enugu State received security report of Fulani invading Uzo-Uwani but could do nothing to save this community from Fulani herdsmen.

“We will not fold our hands and watch our people murdered in cold of blood. Where are the South East governors, the South East Senators, the South east members of House of Representatives? All the South East members of State House of Assembly, what are they doing over this Fulani herdsmen invasion of our land?”