http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/domestic-moggies-castrated-sterilised-last-9025200
130
13
Feral cats have cross-bred with the Scottish wildcat so much they're close to extinction

Household cats will be castrated and sterilised in a bid to save one of Britain’s most iconic wild animals.

Experts say there are fewer than 100 pure Scottish wildcats left.

Nicknamed the Tiger of the Highlands, they are just five years from extinction.

Now action is being taken to save the species by reducing the number of domestic moggies roaming the countryside and cross-breeding with the elusive native cat.

A team is being sent to trap, castrate, sterilise and vaccinate domestic cats before re-releasing them.

Getty The Scottish wildcat will soon be extinct unless action is taken

A spokesman for Scottish Natural Heritage said: “One of the major threats to our dwindling Scottish wildcat population is cross-breeding with feral cats which may also pass on disease.

“Last winter we conducted the biggest-ever Scottish wildcat survey in five of our wildcat priority areas including the Angus Glens.

“We found evidence of wildcats from the trail-camera data but we were also concerned to see they were living whisker to whisker with feral cats and obviously hybridised cats.

Getty There are believed to be only 100 pure wildcats left

“This cross-breeding must be stopped if the Scottish wildcat is to survive as a distinct species.

“We are now launching a significant step forward in our goal to secure the species’ future by seeking a contractor to conduct targeted trapping of feral cats and obvious hybrids in the Angus Glens this winter.

“These cats will be taken to local veterinary clinics, neutered and vaccinated before being returned to the point of capture.

Getty Domestic cats have been filmed living 'whisker to whisker' with their wild cousins

“This work will ensure these cats do not breed with or pass disease to wildcats living in the area. This process is known as trap, neuter, vaccinate and return (TNVR).

“The work will be carried out to the highest standards of welfare.”