http://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/snowdrops-sorrow-flowers-symbolise-tragic-7542680
203
20
SEVENTEEN snowdrops – one for each life lost at Dunblane Primary School.

The little flowers came early to Scotland this spring, just as they did 20 years ago.

And with them came the memories of March 13, 1996, and Scotland’s worst gun atrocity.

Tomorrow’s anniversary will pass without formal, civicrecognition. But across Scotland and the world, people will remember and send their love to Dunblane.

Mirrorpix Floral tributes for the 17 people who died in the Dunblane massacre

Snowdrops were the only spring flowers in bloom when the gunman, Thomas Hamilton, murdered 16 infant children and their teacher, Gwen Mayor.

So they became the symbol of Dunblane and Scotland’s sorrow, but also of the community’s inspiring strength.

Dunblane’s Snowdrop petition, signed by 700,000 people, led to the ban on handguns that now helps keep our children safe.

The people of Dunblane – the families of the dead, their classmates and the many friends touched by the tragedy – have defiantly refused to wallow in grief.

Ron Taylor Dunblane headmaster on the first day back to school after massacre

The triumphs of Andy and Jamie Murray, both pupils at Dunblane Primary in 1996, have made the town famous for a happy reason. They are a sign of how Dunblane has moved on.

But the anniversary is still a time to reflect on the lessons of 1996, and to reaffirm that

any civilised society needs stringent control over guns.

It is a time to remember the young lives lost and to honour the teachers who risked everything to protect pupils that day.

Mick North, whose daughter Sophie, five, was among the dead, said: “In many respects, the day of the anniversary won’t be especially different. Any day from the last 20 years was one for memories.”

Andrew Murray Campaigner Mick North

But he added: “It’s important as an occasion when others can recall and reflect on a horrific event and a time when those too young to remember might learn about what happened and consider its significance.”

Stirling police commander Chief Inspector Paul Rollo said: “On Sunday, we will join together in remembrance, and to celebrate the vibrant community which has overcome such tragedy.”