http://www.dawn.com/news/1245208/dr-asim-not-capable-of-corruption-says-zardari
201
20
NEW YORK: Former president and PPP Co-chair­man Asif Ali Zar­dari has said that former petroleum minister and his close aide Dr Asim Hussain, who is facing legal action on charges of terrorism and corruption, is like “an innocent rabbit afraid of his own shadow”.

‘Asim is incapable of corruption’ let alone facilitating or providing medical help to terrorists, said a Dawn.com report, quoting excerpts from Mr Zardari’s interview to DawnNews on Friday.

The PPP leader is currently in New York, reportedly for medical reasons.

“Asim is a childhood friend and my family doctor. He is the grandson of Dr Ziauddin, and comes from a family that helped create Pakistan,” he said, adding Dr Asim is a progressive individual who “did not need to provide medical help to criminals”.

He rejected allegations that the PPP had links with Lyari gang war leader Uzair Baloch.

“It was the PPP government which initiated action against Uzair, filed cases and issued red warrants against him.”

In reply to a question about his remarks that ‘eent se eent baja denge’, Mr Zardari said the comment was for political opponents.

He clarified that his speech at a PPP event last year, which made waves because it was seen as a threat to the establishment, was not against the army.

“Maybe these statements were not explained, but I never meant to antagonise our institutions or give strength to the Taliban.” The ex-president claimed that after the Peshawar school massacre, the PPP played a key role in transferring power to the establishment on the basis of its strength in the Senate.

“If we had not passed it [21st Amendment], there were many political forces on the table that were against it.”

He claimed that at that time Interior Minister Chaudhry Nisar Ali Khan had appreciated his stance in a note sent to him.

Rejecting speculation that he had left Pakistan because of tensions with the establishment, Mr Zardari said he was not one to flee out of fear.

“I spent 12 out of 27 years of my political career in jail, which means almost one out of every two days in my political career I was behind bars. Why did I do this? To bring back democracy. We fought a dictator and made him [Musharraf] walk out,” he said.

Explaining his absence from the country’s political scene, Mr Zardari said: “I have a whole history of [medical] issues. I never got the opportunity to get these problems fixed.”

He rolled up his sleeve and showed injection marks on his arm to the camera. “I have problems with my eyes and nose, I’m getting old as well.”

In reply to a question, he said that he would return to Pakistan and ‘does not wish to be buried in New York City’.

Mr Zardari said that during his five years at the helm there was not a single allegation or scandal against him.

As president, he pointed out, he surrendered his powers and passed them on to the prime minister. Mr Zardari held the PML-N responsible for harassment of PPP sympathisers and workers, but made it clear that his party would not join any sit-in or movement to derail democracy.

Published in Dawn, March 12th, 2016