http://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/dunblane-20-years-on-victims-7542264
202
20
DUNBLANE’S tragic legacy has left Scotland with some of the toughest gun laws in the world.

The school shootings happened nine years after 16 people were died in the Hungerford massacre.

Despite changes to the law after that atrocity, Hamilton was able to walk into Dunblane Primary with four handguns and more than 700 rounds of ammunition that he legally owned.

Dr Mick North, father of Sophie North who was killed in the Dunblane tragedy.

Revulsion at his actions resulted in nearly 23,000 firearms and 700,000 rounds of ammunition being handed in during a national amnesty.

The outrage resulted in a ban on handguns being passed less than a year-and-a-half later.

But the tragic lessons of Dunblane have not been learned overseas – where campus shootings happen with dreadful regularity.

Campaigner Mick North, whose five-year-old daughter Sophie was killed, said: “Are we and our children now safer from guns? The answer is a definite yes.

“Gun crime is significantly lower, gun murders are extremely rare and criminals are finding it harder than ever to get guns.

Mirrorpix Floral tributes for the 17 people who died in the Dunblane massacre

“Parallels are drawn between the shootings at Dunblane and Sandy Hook Elementary School in Connecticut in 2012.

“The horror at the mass killing of children and teachers, the sympathy for their families, were the same as we’d experienced. The legacy was not.

“Their blinkered and uncritical support of gun rights means that the problem will never go away.”

The tighter gun laws came about as a result of Lord Cullen’s inquiry into the massacre. The Government – led by Tory PM John Major – went further than he recommended.

Dunblane has been compared to the Sandy Hook killings

The Firearms (Amendment) Act 1997, outlawed private ownership of all cartridge ammunition handguns except .22 calibre single-shot weapons in England, Scotland and Wales.

They accepted Cullen’s call for changes requiring gun clubs to keep a register of members and their firearms and imposing strict security conditions on clubs.

Those applying for a firearms licence had to give two references. Schools had to prepare a safety strategy to protect the school population against violence.

After the 1997 general election, Tony Blair’s Labour government went further still.

Lynne Cameron/PA Wire John Major's Government announced sweeping gun controls in wake of Dunblane

The Firearms (Amendment) (No. 2) Act 1997, banned the remaining .22 cartridge handguns in England, Scotland and Wales, and leaving only muzzle-loading and historic handguns legal, as well as certain sporting handguns.

Licencing for air guns will come into force in Scotland at the end of this year after Glasgow toddler Andrew Morton was shot in the head with a pellet in 2005 and died.