http://news.yahoo.com/top-asian-news-5-24-m-gmt-052435145.html
202
20
BEIJING (AP) — China's foreign minister took a hard line Tuesday on the country's claims to virtually all the South China Sea, saying Beijing won't permit other nations to infringe on what it considers its sovereign rights in the strategically vital area. Wang Yi, speaking to reporters at an annual news conference in Beijing, said that another nation's claim to freedom of navigation in the region doesn't give it the right to do whatever it wants — an apparent reference to the U.S., which has sent naval ships past reefs where China has engaged in island-building. Wang sought to deflect allegations China is militarizing the region by building military facilities on the artificial islands.

LOS ANGELES (AP) — China has a new ally in its campaign to turn itself into a global cultural superpower: Matt Damon. And, behind him, a good chunk of Hollywood as well. Chinese leaders have long sought international cultural influence, aka "soft power," commensurate with the nation's economic might. That's brought us official Confucian institutes scattered across the world, billions of dollars in development aid and awe-inspiring Olympic ceremonies. But China's own film industry remains a mere flicker on the global screen. Which is where Damon comes in. Early next year, the star of "The Martian" will headline "The Great Wall," a historical epic filmed in China with Chinese and American stars, a famous Chinese director, a cast and crew of roughly 1,300, a $150 million budget and some nasty monsters.

BEIJING (AP) — Nearly every day, the retired factory worker goes to the airline office, riding a series of buses across Beijing to hand-deliver a letter. And nearly every day, the letter says the same thing. "Tell us the truth, and get our loved ones back to us." Once she hands over the letter, Dai Shuqin gets back on the bus and goes home, back to a small apartment where boxes hold copies of hundreds of letters she has delivered over the past two years, all begging for news on her sister and four other relatives who vanished when Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 disappeared on March 8, 2014.

SYDNEY (AP) — The shifts on board the ship are punishing: 12 hours on, 12 hours off, seven days a week, for a month straight — though pingpong and poker during the downtime help break up the monotony. But for the American man who designed a sonar device being used in the hunt for Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, spending nearly six months at sea searching for the plane was something of an honor. With that honor has come the weight of responsibility — for the families of the 239 people on board the vanished plane still desperate for answers. Now, with the search of a remote patch of ocean off Australia's west coast drawing to a close and the plane's wreckage proving stubbornly elusive, Jay Larsen is among those feeling the pressure.

BEIJING (AP) — Twelve Chinese families with relatives aboard missing Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 filed a lawsuit in a Beijing court on Monday, one day before the deadline for pursuing litigation against the carrier. The families of 32 other passengers, mostly Chinese, filed a separate lawsuit in Malaysia, their lawyer said Monday. The plane disappeared on March 8, 2014, with 239 people — including 153 Chinese citizens — on board while traveling from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing. Under international agreements, families have a two-year window to sue following an air accident. Speaking outside a transportation court in Beijing, the lawyer for the 12 families, Zhang Qihuai, said they are seeking a range of damages but the ultimate goal of the lawsuit is "to find out the cause of the accident and those who are responsible." Several relatives said they hope to use the case to obtain more information from the airline, which they said has not been forthcoming.

CANBERRA, Australia (AP) — Australia's prime minister on Tuesday left open the possibility of a national election as early July as a new opinion poll suggested his leadership honeymoon with voters had ended. Malcolm Turnbull has until May 11 to announce a rare early election on July 2, July 9 or July 16. But his new administration is scheduled to deliver its first annual budget to Parliament on May 10. That would leave Turnbull with a single hectic day before the election deadline expired to pass crucial bills through Parliament that would allow the government to continue spending money in the new fiscal year which starts in July.