http://www.news24.com.ng/MyNews24/in-nigeria-herdsmen-wipe-out-communities-over-cows-20160307
202
20
MyNews24 is a user-generated section of News24 Nigeria . The stories here come from users.

In Nigeria herdsmen wipe out communities over cows Peregrino Brimah

Agatu community in Benue State is the latest massacre ground in Nigeria. A certain Ado Boderi who spoke on behalf of the Fulani herdsmen, justified the violent sacking of the community that left hundreds dead and 7000 displaced – according to media reports – on the killing of 10,000 cows by the Agatu people. You immediately wonder how many human lives a cow is worth.

In Nigeria this is routine and pretty much normal. It is allowed to kill especially if you have large numbers, power or status. Massacres are pretty common and known perpetrators are hardly ever punished... typically rewarded actually.

It's not like the rest of the world where the police rush to prevent crimes and invest time and diligence in arresting all perpetrators to be sentenced or killed. In Nigeria murder is considered a low category offense and sometimes an honorable civic duty. Quite often the very State security services are involved, typically sent by the leadership to perpetrate extrajudicial mass murders and massacres–with impunity–thereby setting examples for the citizenry.

In the latest escalation of the chronic Agatu deadly crisis, Nigeria's police were reluctantly deployed to finally "draw a line" between the perpetrators and the victims. There was no sense in the police boss' statements that anyone will be arrested and prosecuted. The body-language of the leadership has been rather clear. You see, in Nigeria murderers who have openly killed innocent people, walk the streets with everyone else. I will be damned if a single herdsman is arrested and sentenced. There will be no warning to others because it is Nigeria as usual, blood-shedding business as usual.

There are Senators and Senate house leaders who have been indicted for supporting Nigeria's Boko Haram terrorist group. Senate Presidents pardon and let loose cultists sentenced for mass murder.

You can expect the law to come down harder on you for having phone conversations or posting comments on Twitter than killing a bunch of people in Nigeria.

- MyNews24

Disclaimer: All articles and letters published on MyNews24 have been independently written by members of News24's community. The views of users published on News24 are therefore their own and do not necessarily represent the views of News24. News24 editors also reserve the right to edit or delete any and all comments received.