http://www.telegraphindia.com/1160408/jsp/northeast/story_79000.jsp
202
20
One of the arrested rebels. Telegraph picture Guwahati, April 7: Three NDFB (S) militants were taken into custody by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for their alleged role in the December 2014 Adivasi massacre in lower Assam's Kokrajhar district. An official source today said Armish Basumatary, 22, Lothen Basumatary, 42, and Gangaraj Wary, 33, who were held by Assam police earlier in some other cases, were rearrested by the NIA yesterday after investigations revealed their involvement in the massacre. Armish and Lother are from East Jardanpur village and Goribil village under Kokrajhar police station while Gangaraj is from Birhangaon village under Dhaligaon police station in Chirang district. The NIA is investigating five cases related to the Adivasi carnage in Kokrajhar and Sonitpur districts on December 23. "With these three arrests, the total number of NDFB (S) cadres arrested by the NIA so far in connection with the massacre is 61, of whom 45 cadres have been chargesheeted by the agency till date," the source said. "The three accused were produced in a court here yesterday and remanded to NIA custody for three days in a case registered at the agency's Guwahati branch." This case is related to the killing of 12 Adivasi villagers by the militant group at number 3 Shantipur village under Kokrajhar police station. Three villagers had also sustained serious injuries when the militants fired indiscriminately from sophisticated weapons, including AK-47 rifles. The source said in the same case, the agency on April 2 filed a chargesheet at the NIA special court here indicting four NDFB (S) cadres holding different ranks for their alleged involvement in the massacre. The four were Swmkwr Basumatary, Lawithw Brahma, Rabi Basumatary and Willbe Rabha. "In the chargesheet, evidence collected from painstaking field investigation as well as technical and forensic evidence have been cited to establish the crime. The NIA told the court that it would like to continue investigating the case as some more co-accused in crime are yet to be apprehended," the source said. Rebels held Based on specific information, the army and Kokrajhar police in a joint operation apprehend a hardcore NDFB (S) militant, Raju Mushahary alias Rajesh Musahary, from Kachugaon in Kokrajhar district this morning. Public relations officer (defence), Guwahati, Lt Col Suneet Newton, said Raju has been trained in Arunachal Pradesh. "He was actively involved in extortion, arms peddling, recruitment of insurgents and providing logistical support to the banned organisation. A 7.65mm pistol with magazine, few live rounds of ammunition and one hand grenade were recovered from him," he said. In a separate incident, the army in a joint search operation with Dhubri police apprehended one Muslim Tiger Force of Assam (MTFA) militant, Md Sahidul Islam Miah, from Rupsi near Basbari in Dhubri district yesterday.