http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Given-up-for-dead-a-year-ago,-Izzet-el-Duri-launches-Iraqi-and-Saudi-revolt-against-Iran--37167.html
202
20


» 04/08/2016, 09.25



IRAQ-IRAN Given up for dead a year ago, Izzet el-Duri launches Iraqi and Saudi revolt against Iran



In an Al Arabiya video, the former commander of Saddam Hussein’s army slams the US and the "Iranian domination" in Iraq. With "religious" overtones, says hunt is on for "Iran's collaborators", in alliance with Saudi Arabia. He is considered one of the leaders of jihadists conquest of Mosul and Nineveh Plain.



Baghdad (AsiaNews) - Former Iraqi Vice President under Saddam Hussein, Izzet el-Duri, given up for dead in 2015, reappeared yesterday in a video in which he urges Iraqis to rebel against the "Iranian domination" in the nation and to ally themselves Saudi led coalition. The video was broadcast by the pan-Arab Al Arabiya, close to Saudi Arabia, and posted on You Tube (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZT5pn5zayW4) on the Youtube page of the Saudi newspaper Ukaz.



According to reports from the Iraqi and Western press in 2015, Izzet El Duri died in the east Iraqi province of Salah Eddin, near the Allas oil well.



The international US-led coalition that invaded Iraq, had drawn a deck of cards with pictures of the 55 most wanted of the Baathist regime. Izzet el-Duri was the "king " clubs, among the top six most wanted men.



After the liberation of Iraq by the coalition, Izzet el-Duri disappeared and a ransom of 10 million dollars to anyone who would capture or kill him proved fruitless. Izzet El Duri led the resistance north of Baghdad in 2003 by creating the Army Nakshabandi, active mainly in the Dora area, carrying out military incursions against the government that succeeded Saddam and which he considered stacked with "traitors and collaborators with the invaders." The announcement Izzet el-Duri’s death in 2015 as a result of "intense fighting" conducted by the Iraqi army and popular armed groups, had been commented at the time, as a "major blow" against the militants of Salah Eddin province. Izzet el-Duri is believed to have been one of the commanders who led the Isis militiamen to their victorious conquest of Mosul and Nineveh Plain. In yesterday’s video, the former vice-president, a Sunni, appeals to the Iraqi people to side with the Arab coalition led by Saudi Arabia, in fighting against Iranian hegemony in the region. Here is the complete translation of his speech: "We consider that all that Iran is doing today in Iraq, the actions of its agents, its militias and its military and security organs is the fault of the US administration. It is important to take action to save Iraq and the Iraqi people from the hegemony, domination and occupation by Iran and stop the flow of blood, destruction, demolition and demographic change [preventing] further clashes and fighting". "O sons of Iraq, o knights of resistance, if you do not join the Arab front, fight under the banner of the Arab coalition led by the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, sooner or later you will be burned by the Persian fire and you will be cursed by Allah and history". "There are only two ways to drive out the Persians and liberate them from Yemen: the first, the safest and fastest is to oblige Iran and its agents to submit to the resolutions of the UN Security Council issued in this regard and [follow] the conclusions issued by the national dialogue under the patronage of the legitimate national government and the Council of Cooperation of the Arab Gulf nations. The second way is to step up the hunt for Iran’s collaborators, putting an end to their power and capabilities". (PB) e-mail this to a friend Printable version







e-mail this to a friend : Given up for dead a year ago, Izzet el-Duri launches Iraqi and Saudi revolt against Iran Iran Iraq Saudi Arabia Yemen

In an Al Arabiya video, the former commander of Saddam Hussein’s army slams the US and the "Iranian domination" in Iraq. With "religious" overtones, says hunt is on for "Iran's collaborators", in alliance with Saudi Arabia. He is considered one of the leaders of jihadists conquest of Mosul and Nineveh Plain.







: : (*) : : (*) : (*)



: (*)



































See also

21/04/2016 10:07:00 YEMEN - SAUDI ARABIA

Yemeni peace talks underway in Kuwait

They were supposed to start four days ago. Postponed by violations in truce. Talks sponsored by the UN. In over a year of conflict there have been 6400 deaths and nearly 3 million displaced. The presence of Al Qaeda and Daesh "allies" of the Saudi coalition. The Sisters of Mother Teresa and the kidnapping of Fr. Tom Uzhunnalil.







03/06/2016 09:57:00 UN -YEMEN -SAUDI ARABIA

UN: Saudi bombing in Yemen has killed hundreds of children

The Saudi led Arab coalition fighting in the country included among the black list of countries that violate children's rights. According to the United Nations 785 children have died in the conflict in Yemen, 60% because of Riyadh’s air raids. Houthi rebels have recruited 72% of the 762 child soldiers.







12/03/2016 13:39:00 LEBANON – SYRIA

IS threatens Lebanese Christians, Hezbollah, as Arab League declares the latter a “terrorist” group

In a video, IS calls on Christians to convert to Islam, urges Sunnis to rise up and impose Islamic law on Lebanon. Hezbollah, which is fighting the al-Nusra Front and IS in Syria, is declared a terrorist group. Arab League and Arab Gulf States also condemn "terrorist" Hezbollah. Riyadh is accused of supporting extremist groups in Syria and Iraq. Iran warns against putting Lebanon’s stability at risk.



12/03/2008 IRAQ

Security but also a political solution for Mosul

US and Iraqi forces involved in the area stress that both security and a political solution are needed. The city is considered al-Qaeda’s last urban stronghold. Terrorism affects every area of the city, drawing support among residents tired of inhuman living conditions, playing on the city’s ethnic and religious cleavages. The situation raises concerns about the fate of Bishop Rahho who was abducted on 29 February.



14/02/2005 IRAQ

Sunnis are already involved in the political life of Iraq, says Kurdish leader

According to Saywan Barzani, representative of the Kurdish government in Europe, Sunnis will take place in drafting the Constitution.







