http://www.11alive.com/news/local/attorney-heritage-hs-gunman-should-be-paroled/126501814
203
20
T.J. Solomon

ATLANTA-- The defense attorney for the Heritage High School gunman says the state ought to let him out of prison. The state has signaled its intent to do so by giving TJ Solomon a "parole month" of May 2016.

"He was not a monster. He didn’t assemble an arsenal. He was in deep, deep, serious depression," said Ed Garland, the prominent Atlanta attorney who defended Solomon after the May 1999 shootings.

Garland says TJ Solomon was a troubled, mentally ill 15-year-old when he carried a .22 calibre rifle into Heritage High School in Rockdale County and opened fire. He shot five classmates and one teacher, but killed none of them.

PHOTOS | 1999 Heritage High shooting

Loading...



On May 20, 1999, 15-year-old student Anthony "T.J." Solomon opened fire with a .22-caliber rifle on the Heritage High School campus.

On May 20, 1999, 15-year-old student Anthony "T.J." Solomon opened fire with a .22-caliber rifle on the Heritage High School campus.

On May 20, 1999, 15-year-old student Anthony "T.J." Solomon opened fire with a .22-caliber rifle on the Heritage High School campus.

On May 20, 1999, 15-year-old student Anthony "T.J." Solomon opened fire with a .22-caliber rifle on the Heritage High School campus.









of Autoplay Pause Show Thumbnails Show Captions

He did it one month after the Columbine High School massacre in Colorado. Prosecutors say Solomon had accumulated material on the Columbine massacre and became the first of many tragic copycats.

Solomon has lived most of his life in prison. He's now in a state transition center pending his parole. He was sentenced to serve 20 years. He has served 17.

"I truly hope that his parole goes through and he is in fact released" next month, Garland said.

His view contrasts with that of Rockdale Co. District Attorney Richard Read – who prosecuted the case. "I’m a big believer in truth in sentencing. I believe he ought to serve the full twenty years," Read told 11Alive News Thursday. Read thinks even the 20-year sentence was too light.

Garland says it’s more than enough. "He needs to get on out. Continued confinement in our penitentiary system can only a be a negative. It achieves no societal goal at this point," Garland said. "There’s been ample punishment."

The Board of Pardons and Paroles will review Solomon's file again before setting a release date.