http://theadvocatengr.com/2016/04/enugu-massacre-declare-state-of-emergency-in-igboland-archbishop-chukwuma/
202
20
The Archbishop of the Anglican Communion, Enugu Province, Most Rev. Dr. Emmanuel Chukwuma Tuesday warned of dire consequences over the inability of security agencies to avert the killings of residents of Nimbo in Uzo-Uwani council area of Enugu State by Fulani herdsmen.

He, therefore, warned that if nothing was done to checkmate the Fulani herdsmen, he would personally ask the pro-Biafra groups to declare war on them.

The mindless killing of the Nimbo residents and destruction of churches and residential houses have continued to elicit reaction across the country.

Addressing journalists on Tuesday at the Bishop’s Court in Enugu, the fiery clergy, who was visibly angry over the Monday attack, said it was now clear that the federal government controlled security agencies deliberately engage in select negligence.

Besides the cleric called on the Federal Government to declare state of emergency in Igboland.

The Archbishop expressed surprise that many hours after the attack, no arrest had been made.

He warned that if relevant authorities failed to curb the activities of Fulani herdsmen, they would ban the Fulani herdsmen from rearing their cattle in the zone, saying apart from stopping them from rearing their cattles, they would mobilize Biafra agitators against the Fulani herdsmen in the zone.

The cleric insisted that Fulani Herdsmen were more violent than the Biafra agitators and called on South east Governors to rise up to the security challenge.

“I feel bitter, I feel aggrieved. I feel sad that APC government at the centre cannot protect us. We call on the Federal Government to declare state of emergency in Igbo land over the Fulani herdsmen threat to security in the zone or else we will declare war against the Fulani Herdsmen.

“I feel sad that APC government at the centre cannot protect us. Failure to curb the activities of Fulani herdsmen will make us to ban the Fulani herdsmen from rearing their cattle in the zone. Any attempt to harass any Igbo youth, any community will not be taken lightly.

“We will not tolerate it in Igbo land. We are declaring war against the the Fulains herdsmen. We are calling on Northern elders to caution their people (Fulani’s herdsmen). Government should speak out against this Fulani herdsmen menace.

“Failure for the southeast governors to rise to the security

challenge, we will pass vote of no confidence in them. Where did the Fulani Herdsmen get the AK 47 riffles. We will bring our own Ogbunigwe out to defend our rights. We will match force with force.

“Fulani herdsmen come to Igbo land, ravage our farm land, rape our women. That we were defeated in the last civil war does not mean we will remain slaves forever even in our land.

“We will defend our land with our blood and anything including Ogbunigwe. Why was there security lapse? The DSS and other security operatives alerted the government yet they went ahead with their threat by unleashing mayhem on the villagers. The Fulani Herdsmen are more violent than the Biafra agitator”, he said.