http://www.dailylobo.com/article/2016/04/27-fejer-letter
202
20
Published 04/27/16 12:01am | Updated 04/26/16 9:05pm

Editor,



The bi-weekly letters of Muhaijir Romero, Arun Ahuja, and Don Schrader are always fascinating, but why doesn't the DAILY Lobo publish opinion letters and columns, daily? Wasn't the point of going digital, to expand access to information and dialogue?

Why hasn't the Lobo or the Albuquerque Journal covered the stories about UNM Regent Rob Doughty's email scandal or his corrupt ties to the Governor of this failed State? How about looking into the UNM "Safety" Director, Carla Domenic, a political appointee with zero safety or managerial experience? Maybe that is why this campus isn't very 'safe'?



The 4/21/16 letter by Mujaijir Romero about the violence of the blood thirsty homicidal Neo Conservative Hillary Clinton is B.S. The comments on the DailyLobo.com calling for Hillary Clinton to be tried and executed for treason seem over the top. The independent Student Voice of UNM since 1895 can do a lot better. Like Donald Trump and Bernie Sander, the staff at the Daily Lobo need to get a thicker skin. The Lobo isn't above criticism, Part of professionalism is replying to emails or concerns. I am re-submitting my 4/15/16 letter for the third time. The 2016 Election Trumps the people of Tiruray!



It’s become sadly apparent, that the Republican Tea Party does NOT have a monopoly on intransigent unhinged supporters, with unrealistic plans, that they pay for with very fuzzy math. Bernie Sanders is not a Democrat. Donald Trump is not a Republican. They are both parasites.

These rabid millennials, who are feeling the Bern, are quite a damning indictment of the state of the flailing American education system. I honestly have far more respect for the pragmatism of young Republicans and millennial Christians who in overwhelming majorities support comprehensive immigration reforms, climate action, marriage and gender equality, then I do for a crazed group clamoring for class warfare and a socialist revolution to smash Wall St. Bernie’s interview with the NY Daily News was a FUBAR disaster, and then he lashed out at Hillary Clinton for saying that he was unqualified, when she had said no such thing.

Clinton is probably the most qualified and experienced candidate in my lifetime, I’m 41. She also has a thicker skin than both Sanders and Trump. Trump and Sanders have identical positions on NATO, NAFTA, Free Trade, the Establishment, Money in Politics, Iraq, TRUMP/SANDERS 2016!



The front runner of the Republican Party, Donald Trump’s immigration plan is the mass deportation and ethnic cleansing of millions of American families. His counter terrorism plan is to ban all Muslims! Large majorities of Republicans support both of these unhinged plans. It may not be politically correct to say, but the Republican Party of 2016 is a Fascist Political Party. They must be relegated to the dustbin of human history. If young Republicans and millennial Christians don’t want to support a Fascist or a Socialist Demagogue, they should take another look at the pragmatism of candidate Hillary Clinton.



The rabid supporters of both Trump and Sanders are even worse than the Tea Party Patriots, Occupy Wall Street, the Ron/Rand Paulites, Joe the Plumber, former half term Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, Cindy Sheehan, Ralph Nader, Dittoheads, Ross Perot, the moral majority, Hands across America, Christian Evangelicals, and the George McGovernites! Not many Trump or Sanders followers will waver. These cults of personality are posing as political campaign, and the end will not be pretty. In 240 years, no two women have been nominated by an American political party to be POTUS/VPOTUS.This informed and empowered voter is looking forward to Hillary Clinton and Elizabeth Warren shattering that glass ceiling.



Brian Fejer

UNM staff