http://www.nairaland.com/3072830/fulani-herdsmen-south-east-governors-abuja
203
20
Nairaland Forum / Nairaland / General / Politics / Fulani Herdsmen: South-east Governors In Abuja Over Attacks (48716 Views)

South East Governors, NASS Members Shun Igbo Day / Anger Swells Against South-east Governors - NewTelegraphOnline.com / Fayose Warns Apc And Buhari Over Attacks On pres. Jonathan (1) (2) (3) (4)

(0) (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (Reply) (Go Down)

Apparently peeved by the relentless killings and attacks on communities in the South-East geopolitical zones, governors of the region have headed to Abuja to lodge their displeasure to the Federal Government.



It is believed that the governors are not merely on a trip to complain but to make some definite demands on the presidency concerning the unchallenged impunities of Fulani herdsmen in the region.



Governor Rochas Okorocha, who returned to Imo State Tuesday from a medical trip, is said to have rallied his colleagues in the region to action, describing the killings by the nomads as a national calamity.



While the governors of Imo, Enugu and Abia left for Abuja Wednesday morning, the governor of Ebonyi State left Tuesday evening for Abuja.



It is not very clear the disposition of Governor Willy Obiano of Anambra State on the issue as he appears to always distance himself from the activities of the South-East governors.



For the other four governors of the region, they are evidently pained by the wanton killing campaigns of the Fulani nomads and are sufficiently embarrassed and insulted by the fact that in the face of such killings, the system renders them helpless and unable to protect their citizens.



http://newtelegraphonline.com/seast-govs-storm-abuja-fulani-herdsmen-attacks/ 7 Likes 1 Share





On a more serious note this isn't funny anymore!



If the national security forces (especially the C in C, Mr. President) continue turning a blind eye and a deaf ear and people start taking up arms to defend themselves, this country will end up in serious ANARCHY - we will find ourselves light years before civilization.



This is not the time for us to separate ourselves and laugh at the Igbos or other victims. Today they are killing people in upland regions for their cows to graze and eat crops, tomorrow they may start killing riveriners for their cows to drink, next, they may want to occupy hills, cliffs and rocky mountains for their cows to sleep. Oh Wise men from the East, could you get wiser and deliver thy people in all thy land?On a more serious note this isn't funny anymore!If the national security forces (especially the C in C, Mr. President) continue turning a blind eye and a deaf ear and people start taking up arms to defend themselves, this country will end up in serious ANARCHY - we will find ourselves light years before civilization.This is not the time for us to separate ourselves and laugh at the Igbos or other victims. Today they are killing people in upland regions for theirto graze and eat crops, tomorrow they may start killing riveriners for theirto drink, next, they may want to occupy hills, cliffs and rocky mountains for theirto sleep. 65 Likes 4 Shares

I hear.....When the attacker are in their state commanding havoc, they went to abuja to discuss .... 4 Likes 1 Share





Majority of politicians own those cows under the care of herdsmen.



The governors in the affected states ar wasting time. Y nt purchase arms nd engage this blood sucking pple



It is only politics that governors buy arms fr their thugs to kill their fellow contestants. Smh..... The issue of this herdsmen baffles me...Majority of politicians own those cows under the care of herdsmen.The governors in the affected states ar wasting time. Y nt purchase arms nd engage this blood sucking ppleIt is only politics that governors buy arms fr their thugs to kill their fellow contestants. Smh..... 42 Likes 2 Shares

stop running to abuja. give guys guns to do the needful. 82 Likes 5 Shares

Rather than explore the prospects of community policing, APC is busy plotting to confiscate my ancestral land for the benefit of the muderous itinerary fulani to graze his cattles!



The outcome of the meeting should also be made known and in clear terms too with a time frame to tackle this insult of a menace. 41 Likes 4 Shares





Believe me when I say, He has given these bloodthirsty Fulani cretins the carte blanche to carry out this systematic ethnic cleansing.



Where is that Reverend Mbaka from Enugu ... Come and say something now your "messiah's" people are wrecking havoc on your own people. Buhari is a certified ethnocentric terrorist.Believe me when I say, He has given these bloodthirsty Fulani cretins the carte blanche to carry out this systematic ethnic cleansing.Where is that Reverend Mbaka from Enugu... Come and say something now your "messiah's" people are wrecking havoc on your own people. 92 Likes 10 Shares

"Where more than two Fulani herdsmen are gathered, they are terrorists. They should be treated as terrorists and dealt with decisively on the spot."

"Reports from our security and intelligence units confirms that those so called herdsmen are terrorists in disguise."

- Alh. Aliyu Shinkafi (Ex. Gov. Zamfara state) 7 Likes 1 Share





Nonsense The outcome of the meeting will still be shrewd in secrecy.Nonsense 1 Like 2 Shares

I hope they've got plan B and not leave their flanks open back home for Abuja trip. 6 Likes 1 Share

Believe u me. There are just there for jambolee.

Let our people no talk say we didnt make any move.





They didnt go there with a common voice.



The highest ranking member of the presidency they can see is SFG 1 Like

BeardedMeat:

Rather than explore the prospects of community policing, APC is busy plotting to confiscate my ancestral land for the benefit of the muderous itinerary fulani to graze his cattles!

The outcome of the meeting should also be made known and in clear terms too with a time frame to tackle this insult of a menace.

It's APC's fault that your people are cowards or that Fulanis are terrorists? Did APC make you forget that what goes around comes around?



Instead of passing laws forbidding Fulani grazing or fighting against that damn unconstitutional grazing bill, You gather on social media to call others cowards. It's APC's fault that your people are cowards or that Fulanis are terrorists? Did APC make you forget that what goes around comes around?Instead of passing laws forbidding Fulani grazing or fighting against that damn unconstitutional grazing bill, You gather on social media to call others cowards. 17 Likes 4 Shares

Fmartin:

Hmmmmm....... Oh yes indeed! The governors know the nature of their people and may not be able to restrain them for too long.



Because monkey was allowed to wear clothes, it now thinks it can sit at the dinning with humans. If a fulani herdsman wasn't president, what would have emboldened those criminals lately. Oh yes indeed! The governors know the nature of their people and may not be able to restrain them for too long.Because monkey was allowed to wear clothes, it now thinks it can sit at the dinning with humans. If a fulani herdsman wasn't president, what would have emboldened those criminals lately. 4 Likes

This is boko haram in disguise.

The dismantling of military check points by this adminisration led to the spread to all parts of the country.



The easterners should team up, take up arms and defend themselves.



The governors should not wait for the travelling president who does not care for the citizens but money. 30 Likes 2 Shares

Let's give them a benefit of doubt, this if true is a step in the right direction. I'm glad Rochas has seen what he was campaigning for. Mbaka should have joined them in that trip. 10 Likes 1 Share

It is not very clear the disposition of Governor Willy Obiano of Anambra State on the issue as he appears to always distance himself from the activities of the South-East governors.









So much for unity. So much for unity. 6 Likes

Every community/neighborhood in Anambra has a state sponsored vigilante outfit, equipped with trucks and shot guns ....These were put in place during Peter obi's tenure... also continued when willie came on board...

The vigilante in the cities are funded by the state and small contributions from locals.

The ones in the villages are strictly handled by the state...Where I live in onitsha( one major street and 8 adjoining lanes) can boast of 25 security men armed with shot guns....

I won't say it's enough but ,we are better off than places who only rely on the police. 26 Likes

What are they looking for in Abuja

What I had expected the south east governors to do was this:

Convey an emergency meeting and at the end issue a communique banning all forms of normadic activity till further notice. Any herd seen grazing anywhere in the east will be treated as a breach of the order and thus criminal. This order will subsist until the presidency comes up with a clear direction on how to curb this menance.

But if the body language and actions of of the president clearly shows that he is sympathetic to his fulani kinsmen over the lives of their people,then it will leave the people with no other option than these two:

1,The re-emergence of Ethnic militia like the well fortified bakassi boys.

2,The aguleri/umuleri clash approach were 'industrious' sons of the communities started setting aside a portion of their earnings for the purchase of sophisticated firearms for their land's defence by the youths 'at home' 41 Likes 10 Shares

good move

Lets even say these are saboteurs that just want the division of Nigeria the presidents silence is actually helping that aim lets call a spade a spade if it continues like this then the division of Nigeria is definitely imminent. 1 Like 1 Share

who dey Don epp? 1 Like

.... and where is senator father mbaka , the political campaign prophet, the talkative, !! when u need him to talk.... 12 Likes 2 Shares

Where is that big mouth rev father called mbaka, why is he on ghost mode 5 Likes 2 Shares

Mtchewwww

I am tired being a nigerian. from boko haram wahala. to igbo boys drug trafficking. yoruba yahoo yahoo, killings by the uncivilised hausas. mannerless attitudes from benin boys but in nigeria and outside nigeria. international disgrace of benin prostitutes. what a country! 3 Likes 2 Shares

hmmmmmmmm 12 Likes 2 Shares

Yes, this menace must come to an end.

Going to Abuja at this dire time is a bad idea. Rochas and the other three dumbs should get their ass back to their respective states and summon every community representatives to a meeting. The objective of the gathering must be geared towards procuring arms and other security apparatus to vigilante outfit in all rural communities. Wealthy individuals in a locality (both home and abroad) can provide financial assistance or even lend their guns to assist in this task. Self-defence with a large chunk of arm purchase is a viable solution to solve this Fulani violent madness.

It's high time we give these herdsmen a run for their blood, anything order than these is creating a soft landing for more attacks. 14 Likes 2 Shares

I no see my governor, Obiano for there.

Good