http://dailypost.ng/2016/04/27/resign-if-you-cant-stop-killings-by-herdsmen-groups-tell-buhari/
202
20
Some human rights groups have advised President Muhamamdu Buhari to resign if he cannot end the incessant killings of innocent citizens by Fulani herdsmen.

In a statement on Wednesday, the coalition under the aegis of Centre for Human Rights and Social Justice (CHRSJ), which hinted that they have concluded arrangements to storm the presidential villa in Abuja to register their anger, sympathized with the governments and people of the affected States and Communities.

The coalition includes: Centre for Constitutional Rights and Counter Corruption Crusader, Save Lagos Group (SLG) ,The Conscience Mainstream, African Masses Voices for Survival (AMVS), Christians Youths for the Peoples’ Rights and Development (CYPRD), Islamic Movement for Muslims’ Rights(IMMR), Divine Nigerians Liberators for Peoples’ Fundamental Rights (DNLPFR).

Others are: the Christian Awareness Mission Group (CAMG), Passengers Fundamental Rights Group (PATRGIA), The Political Awareness Group (TIPAG), Centre for Social Justice and Equity of Nigeria (CESJEN),Civil Societies Coalition for the Emancipation of Osun State (CSCEOS),Veteran Groups for Operation Clean Crusade (VGOCC), Apata-Aiyeraye Social Political Volunteer Group (ASPVG) and De Mainstream Independent Group (DIG).

Rising from their expanded meeting on the state of the Nation on Wednesday, leader of the group, Comrade Adeniyi Alimi Sulaiman, disclosed that they discussed extensively, the ongoing massacre of innocent Nigerians by Fulani herdsmen, particularly, the Agatu and Enugu killings where dozens of people were killed.

Comrade Sulaiman who called on the security agencies in the country to be alive to their constitutional duties of protecting the lives and property of the citizens, urged them to increase their intelligence gathering mechanism so as to forestall the future occurrences.

Stressing that “this was how Boko Haram insurgency began some years back”, the coalition gave 7 days ultimatum to President Buhari and security agencies to fish out the sponsors of the Agatu and Enugu massacre and bring them to justice.

It said: “We will storm Aso Rock to remind President Buhari on the protection of lives and property as stipulated in the amended 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. If President does to curb or put an end to this Fulani herdsmen madness, there will be trouble.

“Let’s call a spade a spade, the recent brutal invasion of Communities in the country, especially, the Agatu and Ukpabi Nimbo and attitude of Federal Government on the Fulani Herdsmen serious threat to the peaceful co-existence of Nigerians.

“President Muhammadu Buhari should quit office if he cannot put this madness under control. We feel that Buhari-led government is playing games and politics with the lives of innocent human beings.

“These mindless killings must be stopped within a reasonable time before it goes out of hand,” the statement added.