http://www.vanguardngr.com/2016/04/okorocha-blasts-fulani-herdsmen/
202
20
By Chidi Nkwopara, OWERRI.

Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State, has described the recent massacre of inmocent citizens in Enugu State, as “very unfortunate, senseless and barbaric”.

He also fumed that “the killings in Enugu state was inhuman and those behind the killings should be made to face the law”.

The Governor, who made his feelings known while addressing traditional rulers yesterday in Owerri, also appealed passionately, to President Mohammadu Buhari to “intervene as a matter of urgency in the repeated killings in the South-East by Fulani herdsmen, to forestall future occurrence”.

Governor Okorocha charged the traditional rulers in the state to take absolute control of security in their various autonomous communities and to also ensure peaceful co-existence between their people and settlers.

While saying that what the country needs at the moment is absolute peace, Okorocha however appealed for calm on the part of both Enugu people in particular and the South East in general, even as he expressed optimism that President Buhari would address the unfortunate development.

“The attack in Enugu State is condemnable and I condemn it in its entirety as senseless and barbaric. The news of the barbaric attack on some of the sons and daughters of Enugu State came to us as a huge shock”, Okorocha said.

He sympathized with the families that lost their beloved ones and appealed for peace in the region, promising that “the governments within the region is on top of the matter”.

Okorocha was also of the opinion that the nation cannot afford the wanton destruction of innocent lives, stressing that absolute peace was needed to ensure the protection of lives and property.

Governor Okorocha said: “This is an important meeting. I want to kindly request all of you to take responsibility of security in your domains to ensure peaceful co-existence between Igbos and other Nigerians living in your areas”.