http://jewishvoiceny.com/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=15566:eu-allocates-1-5m-to-expand-lodz-train-station-museum&catid=106&Itemid=772&lang=en
203
20
EU Allocates $1.5M to Expand Lodz Train Station Museum

European Union allocates $1.5 million for the expansion of the museum at the Radegast train station in Lodz

The European Union allocated $1.5 million for the expansion of the museum at the Radegast train station in Lodz, from which Jews were shipped to death camps during the Holocaust.

The money will be used to modernize the building and construct a multimedia model of the Lodz Ghetto, which existed from April 1940 to August 1944.

During the Holocaust, the Nazis sent Jews from the ghetto to death camps from the Radegast station. After the war the station fell into disrepair and appeared to be forgotten. A museum was opened there 10 years ago.

The multimedia model of the Lodz Ghetto, or Litzmannstadt Ghetto, as it was known in German, will be made on a scale of 1:1400 and will show the ghetto as it appeared in May 1944.

"Through multimedia, visitors will gain an opportunity to meet and listen to the witness of history," according to Piotr Machlanski, director of the Museum of Independence Traditions in Lodz, which owns and operates the museum at the Radegast station.

The work at the station is expected to be completed in 2019.

In a related development, Lithuanian president Dalia Grybauskaitė called the Holocaust a tragedy of all of Lithuanua during a commemoration ceremony at the site of 1941 massacre of Jewish residents in the town of Molėtai in eastern Lithuania.

“Their memory is an uncompromising obligation for all Lithuanian people to fight against hatred, violence, discrimination, and indifference, and to respect and protect those who are around us,” Grybauskaitė said during Monday’s ceremony.

Relatives of those murdered in Molėtai and the Lithuanian Jewish Community organized a March of Remembrance attended by local residents prior to the ceremony. “This demonstrates that Lithuanians are changing, casting away primitive stereotypes, becoming open and tolerant as they uphold and defend human values,” said the president.

This week, Remembrance Marches also have been organized in other Lithuanian cities and towns that saw the brutal massacre of Jews 75 years ago. Lithuanians began murdering Jews before the Nazi invasion of their country, viewing them as allies of the hated USSR because the Jews were anti-Nazi.

(JTA)