http://leadership.ng/news/555627/anti-dickson-forces-linking-apc-bayelsa-council-chairman
1383
13
The Chairman of the Brass Local Government in Bayelsa, Hon. Bello Bina on Saturday offered reasons why some anti-Dickson politicians in the state are linking him with the opposition party, the All Progressive Congress (APC) over his presence during the last week inspection tour by the Minister of Environment, Amina Mohammed to the area, saying his loyalty to the PDP and Governor Seriake Dickson is unshakeable.

According to Hon. Bello Bina, though the claims of those involved in the campaign of calumny against his administration of the Brass Local Government Council are frivolous and born out of attempts to political weakness, his presence at the inspection tour of the Minister of Environment was purely to point out the breach of protocol of her visit without due notification of the State Governor, Hon. Seriake Dickson and the Local Government Council.

The Brass Local Government Chairman, Hon. Bello Bina, while speaking yesterday in Yenagoa during a media interactive session, said though the open caution during the event was meant to affirm the superiority of the State Governor, Hon. Seriake Dickson as the Chief Security officer of the State,” the PDP is in charge of the State and the local Government council. I have taken charge of Brass local government as a PDP Council Chairman and the achievement made was with the exemplary support of the State Governor.”

“Maybe some of the anti-PDP forces linking me with APC are expecting me to kill the opposition before they will confirm my loyalty. As a council Chairman, I am their father in Brass local Government. These people don’t like the present peace I have brought to reign in Brass local Government. I keep saying it that the PDP have brought development into Brass.”

“These politicians, involved in campaign of calumny, stay in Government House and spread false rumor. It is because I was not nominated by them and Governor in his wisdom found me worthy with my hard work and appointed me. I am just like a single stick standing in the forest. If anyone has anything to say against me, they should come to Brass local Government they should come to Brass Local Government and show their popularity.”

“Many of those involved in the rumor peddling against the council expect me to bring the Workers payroll to them before I can pay salary. They expect me to consult them before I develop the council. They want me to share the salary of the council. For them, they should be aware that those days the APC is making noise are over. I have over powered the APC and the members of the PDP should come to Brass and give me support to make the PDP stronger.”

“They should doing big man in Yenagoa and stop peddling rumor. When the Federal Minister came and she breached protocol without informing the State Governor, I cautioned her. If I could do all that, I should have been commended by the members of PDP in Brass instead of claiming I am romancing with APC. i remain a PDP man and will always be a PDP man.”