http://www.renegadetribune.com/tullia-zevi-italys-barbara-spectre/
202
20
By Callwen of Heathen Women

Italy is getting hit with boatloads of invaders, recently 10,000 in 2 Days. Tullia Zevi didn’t live to see her dream of a multiracial Europe come true, but her words show an eerie similarity to another Jewess — the infamous Babs Spectre.

In a contribution for a 2004 book called I am Jewish, Zevi wrote:

Europe is undergoing deep changes: No longer a relatively ‘white and Christian’ continent, it is now being turned into a multiracial, multicultural society by the arrival from the four corners of the earth of millions of human beings seeking better lives. It is substantially a positive phenomenon that, however, is bound to create problems and arouse anxieties and defensive mechanisms.

Tullia Zevi was at one time Vice President of the European Jewish Congress, and in her 2011 New York Times obituary, we learn, “An outspoken critic of intolerance, Ms. Zevi believed that the Jews of Europe should stand in solidarity with the Muslims of Europe against currents of racism and xenophobia.”

In the next telling paragraph, we learn that she refused to shake the hand of Yasir Arafat when he spoke at Rome’s City Hall in 1996.

She was of the holohoax generation, a journalist at the Nurenburg trials and the Eichmann trial in Jerusalem, yadayadayada.

She served her Jewish nation, so you can’t really call her a traitor. But Europeans see the trend. She talks of the Jews’ responsibility to remind fellow Europeans of the “supreme virture of tolerance.” That means tolerating the Jews’ well-documented plan to genocide white Europeans through mass immigration.

The European Jewish Congress is well aware that the rise of anti-semitism is being linked to the mass invasion.

In the 2015 EJC report on anti-semitism, there’s this:

A number of extreme right wing individuals and organisations promote the view that the real enemy is the Jews and that there is a malevolent Jewish hand behind Muslim immigration and the promotion of cultural diversity.

Are the Jews really going to say they’re not behind Muslim immigration and the diversity (for white nations) agenda?

The main concern of right wingers is the demographic/social/cultural threat this wave may constitute, as they view the situation, to their respective countries.

Oh, they know very well that this is a threat to the ancient Europa that’s been made up of actual Europeans.

The report singles out the Swedish Resistance Movement, and their notes distributed to several towns on International Holocaust Day.

And it’s worth highlighting, because I didn’t hear about this awesomeness. The local media was blocked from going in and this note was left in Swedish towns including Falun, Umeå, Borlänge and Ludvika.

Attention! This place has been blocked as a preventive measure. The Swedish people are no longer interested in listening to any whining about dead Jews. Instead of writing about the banal post-war propaganda, why not write about real tragedies such as the occupation of Sweden as a result of mass immigration or the genocide of the Boer in South Africa. With unfriendly regards, The Resistance Movement.

Back to Italy in the Current Year

Shocking news this week, as it’s revealed that NGOs are picking up migrants 13 MILES from the coast of Libya.

They basically expect to be picked up, and set out with just a “bit of gasoline in the overcrowded vessels.”

I don’t know much about Italy, but was there years ago, and in awe of its ruins and pedestrian-friendly piazzas. I remember Northern Italy as an exquisite and safe place (compared to the South), so it sucks to hear Milan is now controlled by migrants.

Italians like Matteo Salvini of the Lega Nord party are calling it an organized invasion “that is producing the ethnic cleansing of Italians and Europeans.”

I think we all know who to thank for that.

Resources:

2015 Annual Report on Anti-Semitism – European Jewish Congress

Top Jew Slams Euro-Patriots – President of the European Jewish Congress (EJC) Moshe Kantor has slammed everyone who opposes the overrunning of Europe by nonwhite invaders as promotors of “hatred and intolerance.”