http://blogs.timesofisrael.com/the-cesspool-of-hypocrisy/
202
20
There are many who insist that Israel should consider world opinion.

And why shouldn’t she?

Glad you asked. I’ll tell you why.

In a nutshell, world opinion of today is generated by morally corrupt governments and their NGO’s, their vile performance orchestrated with petrol dollars, disseminated by thugs in suits promenading proudly through the halls of a behemoth structure that sits on 18 acres of land on the banks of New York City’s East River, a cesspool of filth overflowing with verbal feces, determined to crush the last vestige of honor and decency.

Israel is thus set apart as the one country on this earth to viciously target in an unabated windstorm of condemnation.

And yet, voices from our very own ranks, fearing the world will isolate Israel, call out to her to acquiesce to evil and capitulate to pressure policies that translate into nothing less than national suicide.

And why?

So that they’ll like us better.

Since its inception until 2012, the U.N. passed 79 resolutions that were directly critical of Israel due to its supposed violations of the resolutions of the U.N. Security Council, the Geneva Convention, international acts of terrorism and international law. This number does not take into account at least 30 plus resolutions that the U.S. vetoed. The Human Rights Council passed 40% of its resolutions against Israel, more than any repressive country on earth, including Nigeria, North Korea and the Congo.

It wasn’t long ago that claims were made that by withdrawing from Gaza, Israel would improve its international standing and gain international legitimacy to defend itself.

Well, we withdrew from Gaza and didn’t gain an improved international standing.

Neither did we gain international legitimacy to defend ourselves.

What we did gain were missiles on our civilian population from the very same areas we surrendered to our Arab enemies.

During Israel’s defensive strike in 2008 known as Operation Cast Lead, in an attempt to put an end to the thousands of rocket attacks from Gaza with a limited ground invasion, Israel was met with unparalleled international condemnation, including the UN’s Goldstone Report accusing Israel of “war crimes against humanity,” buttressing the already in-effect campaign to de-legitimize Israel.

And again, in 2012, after a decade of world silence as Israel endured continuous rocket attacks, when she finally responded with its “Pillar of Defense” operation in November 2012, the Europeans and the U.N. fell all over themselves in a rush to force a ceasefire while threatening Israel that a ground invasion would cause her to lose international sympathy.

The price of international sympathy for Israel is measured in the flow of our own blood. Pardon me if I say the cost is a bit pricey.

On the heels of capitulating to a ceasefire with the Muslim Brotherhood of Egypt no less, as overseer of the agreement, after 12,000 missiles had been fired on Israel since 2005, the U.N. General Assembly awarded the Muslim terrorists that squat on Israel’s soil in Gaza, Judea and Samaria and voted 138 to 9 with 41 abstentions for the establishment of a “non- member” state of Palestine. The only countries who voted with Israel were the US, Canada, Czech Republic, Panama and a handful of Pacific island nations.

We capitulated.

Where was the international sympathy for Israel?

Where was the improved international standing for Israel?

Not one country could be found in the bowels of Western Europe, Asia, Africa, or South America that would sympathize with Israel. Rather, while supporting the unilateral step taken by the so-called Palestinians at the U.N. in blatant violation of the Oslo Accords, they instead condemned Israel’s plan to build 3000 new homes in Judea. Israel was threatened with sanctions.

Building homes was contrary to peace in the region. But not missiles fired upon our civilian population.

The UN Human Rights Council (HRC), which replaced the Commission on Human Rights in 2006, continues the unholy ritual to direct its hatred on Israel while ignoring international human rights crises the world over. In fact, the permanent agenda of the HRC includes a specific item targeting Israel , known as Agenda Item #7.

It’s quite fascinating how Israel is the only country to appear on the HRC’s permanent agenda, while other countries such as China, Saudi Arabia and Sudan, notorious for their human rights abuses, are not singled out.

At the same time, we can applaud the U.N. Durban Review Conference established to find the real source of racism where the genocidal Achmedenijad once served as a keynote speaker at the last conference. And guess which country is served on a silver platter for all to plunge their daggers into?

Meanwhile, back in Sudan, the Arabs and Muslims for decades have been ethnically cleansing the region of those they consider inferior to them. While in the Congo for instance, dubbed as Africa’s largest battlefield is virtually ignored, and the U.N. peacekeeping force in the area is entirely ineffective in protecting its civilians, especially its women from mass rape. And, while African children are forced into the military, back in our own neighborhood the Muslim terrorists begin training their children to be Shaheeds in the name of Global Jihad from the time they are toddlers. And let’s not forget Syria where chemical warfare reigns supreme. Word has it the Christians in Egypt aren’t doing too well either.

But…let’s focus on Israel, the only Democracy in the Middle East. The only country in the region that protects religious freedom for all — A country that bends over backwards to make sure that the rights of the Arabs, albeit dubious from a legal, historical and moral standpoint despite what Israel’s detractors claim, are protected as they engage in a land-grab war against us in the Galil, in the Negev, in Judea and in Samaria — And the only country, it appears, to have the balls to stand up to terrorism.

Yet, the leftists among us whine for Israel to sacrifice more of our land and more of our blood. The apologists beat their chests and beg for morsels of approval from a world steeped in willful ignorance, enraptured in their hatred for the Jew. I mean the Israeli. I mean the Zionist. I mean…the Jew.

We’ve given up so much of our land — we’ve given up Yericho (Jericho) and Shchem (called Nablus by outsiders) where if we wish to visit our ancient synagogues or Kever Yosef (the grave of Joseph) we are forced to do so under the Arab guns, we gave up the highlands of Hevron, we gave up our land in Gaza, we gave up Beit Lechem, and when we visit Kever Rachel, (the grave of our Matriarch Rachel), we must cower inside a military fortress that now surrounds her, defending her from the Muslim terrorist’s bullet.

And still, world opinion demands more from us emboldened by our capitulation, while we battle terrorism on all fronts, not only for our own sake, but for the sake of the free world.

And still, the weak-kneed among us do not receive even that morsel of world sympathy for which they grovel.

So pathetic. So laughable.

World opinion? It is nothing more than a cesspool of hate and hypocrisy.

We may have to live with it – for now.

We don’t have to cater to it – ever.