http://www.dailyexpress.com.my/news.cfm?NewsID=105597
203
20
Will these Sabah issues be resolved this year?

Published on: Tuesday, January 05, 2016

As the new year got under way, investigations were still ongoing into several incidents that happened in 2015 and the outcomes to which will be eagerly waited this year.

Daily Express looks at some of the more publicised ones:

• Turtle poaching:

There has been no outcome as to who were the culprits behind two separate incidents of turtle massacres in Pulau Tiga near in the Banggi-Balambangan channel in march 2015. The standard response by State Tourism, Culture and Environment Minister Datuk Seri Masidi Manjun concerned was that it would be investigated and culprits would not go unpunished. But like the poisoning of pygmy elephants in Lahad Datu in 2014, it appears that the public would not be any closer to knowing who carried out the despicable acts.

A separate investigation also involving turtles was of pictures that swamped the social media of turtle eggs being served during a dinner for Federal Minister Datuk Ismail Sabri in Sandakan. The Minister denied knowledge that turtle eggs were served and that he did not consume them. Masidi defended him saying he cannot be faulted and there were suggestions that it may have been a sabotage bid to damage the Minister's reputation. The restaurant owner was supposed to have been questioned by the Wildlife Department but until now there has been no new development.

The incident showed that turtles continue to be driven to extinction due to demand and lax security of the State waters.

• Sumatran rhinos:

With only three species left in captivity, the fate of the Sumatran Rhino remained slim in 2015 with no new discoveries made in Sabah.

Researchers appear convinced the three creatures may be the last. Sabah is going all-out to save this iconic species with a more recent attempt to find a surrogate female with its distant cousin the Sumatran Rhinos with the help of Indonesia.

In August, Wildlife Department Assistant Director Dr Sen Nathan has expressed confidence that the rhino species in Malaysia and Indonesia are of the same subspecies 'Dicerorhinus Sumatrensis and hence will be compatible.

• Shark Sanctuary:

Sabah hoped to establish its first shark sanctuary instead of waiting for the Federal Government to ban shark finning. Agriculture and Agro-Based Industry Minister Datuk Seri Ahmad Shabery Cheek said there was no need to amend the existing Fisheries Act and impose a ban on shark hunting or fishing as "there is no such industry in the country".

This came as a shock among conservationists as sharks have been noted to be one of the main reasons tourists and divers continue to visit Sabah, with the diving industry alone having contributed RM350 million to the State in 2014. The State Tourism, Culture and Environment Ministry is in the midst of preparing a working paper for a proposed shark sanctuary. In the meantime, notices and billboards to deter visitors from consuming the animal are being erected at strategic spots.

• Housing woes:

Houses and apartments continue to remain unaffordable especially among young families and professionals as prices are expected to continue to soar.

This comes amid a backdrop of tougher lending, limited land gazetted as residential, rising costs and the passage of quake-proof building guideline which will likely bump prices further.

Developers' suggestion to cool down prices by expediting the process of Development Plan (DP) approval was met with no clear answer from the regulators as a second white paper to propose solutions to mitigate the problem assigned to a special committee by the State Government remained blur throughout 2015.

• Haze:

Massive land clearing and open burning to make way for oil palm plantation in Indonesia's Kalimantan look set to continue bringing the haze. 2015 saw schools closed for the first time in affected areas until air quality improved.

Thick haze also forced airlines to postpone flights at times while affected nations raised the alarm over spiked respiratory complications among their citizens during haze season.

This had become a regular incident over the years as tensions grow thin among the governments of Indonesia's neighbors, Malaysia and Singapore, which blamed unethical burning carried out by private companies in the republic as the reason.

• Kidnap-for-ransom and cross border crimes:

Sabah's East Coast continued to be a red zone so long as the kidnapping-for-ransom groups and smugglers from across the border remained active.

The kidnapping and eventual tragic end of Sarawakian visitor to Sandakan, Bernard Then, proved that the kidnappers believed to be members of rebel groups in the Southern Philippines could still penetrate the State despite an on-going dawn-to-dusk curfew has been implemented.

Sabah also saw a massive amount of its goods like rice, petrol, cooking oil, cooking gas canisters smuggled into the Philippines and Indonesia, which is a boon due to its cheaper prices.

• Flooding:

West Coast areas continued to be hit by flooding despite hundreds of million ringgit announced to mitigate the problem.

Experts believe many of the projects, especially the ongoing flood mitigation project largely in Penampang can only be completed early 2017.

• Cabotage Policy

Higher prices of imported goods will likely be one of the key topics for 2016 as the Federal Government for the first time will lend its ears to listen to the grouses of non-governmental organisations over the burdensome 35-year-old policy.

The cabotage policy, particularly involving export companies in Sabah, will be discussed this month at a meeting of the National Export Council.

The policy is largely blamed for the higher prices of goods in Sabah and Sarawak around 30 per cent than the peninsula.

• Illegal immigrants:

Steps to overcome Sabah's foreign migrant problems will continue to be carried out this year after of the submission of the actual report made by the technical committee on the issue.

The technical committee which is chaired by the Deputy Chief Minister Tan Sri Joseph Pairin Kitingan was tasked to compile feedback, views and recommendations from all quarters over the issue after the Royal Commission of Inquiry on Illegal Immigrants completed its report about two years ago.

• Vaping:

Local Governments have yet to decide on whether to put a ban on the vaping as more and more States begin to restrict the flourishing trend popular among the young.

Johor has imposed a total ban on the use of such devices.

Just recently Community Development and Consumer Affairs Minister Datuk Jainab Ahmad Ayid said the State's stand on vaping will depend on the Health Ministry views and the Islamic authorities.

The Health Ministry has been clear on non-acceptance of vape largely due to its health implication but it is reliably learnt Local Governments including City Hall has not deliberate on the matter yet.

• Gazetting of Tun Mustapha Marine Park:

In 2014, it was reported that the one million-hectare Tun Mustapha Marine Park in the northern part of Sabah will be gazetted by mid-2015. In fact, this was announced at the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) World Parks Congress in Australia that year (2014). But this has yet to materialise.

• Unified Examination Certificate (UEC):

While the Sarawak and Selangor State Governments now recognise the Senior Middle Three Unified Examination Certificate (UEC) for Chinese Independent Secondary Schools (in Malaysia) as a valid qualification for entry into public universities, Sabah has yet to make its stand clear.

Sabahans also complained that they have yet to see the results of work conducted by the Technical Committee on the Management of Foreigners that is chaired by Deputy Chief Minister, Tan Sri Joseph Pairin Kitingan.

• Dual Language Programme (DLP):

Teachers and parents alike are still in the dark over the Dual Language Programme (DLP) that is supposed to be launched in the country this year (2016). Under the programme, 300 selected schools will be given the option to teach Science and Mathematics in English or Bahasa Malaysia to Year One and Year Four pupils.

Until today, the State Education authorities are unable to tell how many of the 300 schools are Sabah-based.

• Keningau Oath Stone plaque:

Although former State Secretary Tan Sri Richard Lind who was commissioned to erect the Oath Stone in 1964 had confirmed beyond and doubt the authenticity of the lost plaque, State Tourism, Culture and Environment Minister, Datuk Masidi said its authenticity could only be decided by the State Museum.

Daily Express learnt that Museum Director Datuk Joanna Kitingan has moved to another portfolio in the Tourism Ministry leaving the matter unresolved despite Lind's confirmation.

The opposition Star led in Sabah by Joanna's brother Datuk Dr Jeffrey Kitingan, was quick to accuse the government of foot-dragging because the original plaque had the crucial words "Kerajaan Malaysia Jamin" (Malaysian Government Guarantees) to the demands of the Interior natives, namely Freedom of Religion, State jurisdiction over lands and guarantee on upholding native customs.

These were the key aspects of the 20 Points that the Interior natives led by Sedomon, who were against the creation of Malaysia, wanted honoured in stone.