http://www.israellycool.com/2016/05/11/israel-hating-students-at-sdsu-play-victim/
203
20
San Diego State University (SDSU) has been the scene of some controversy in recent days, triggered by fliers on campus – sent by conservative activist David Horowitz (not the Times of Israel one) – which identified certain students as supporters of terrorism.

“There is an epidemic of Jew hatred on American campuses and at San Diego State University. This Jew hatred is incited by Students for Justice in Palestine, the Muslim Students Association and assorted leftist groups, all of whom support the terrorist organizations Hamas and Fatah.” The fliers then explain that both SJP and MSA are products of the Muslim Brotherhood, and that they “disseminate genocidal lies about Israel whose purpose is to weaken and destroy the world’s only Jewish state.”

Here is what Horowitz had to say about the purpose behind the fliers.

Horowitz’s Freedom Center and his website Stop the Jew Hatred on Campus are focused on exposing monetary connections between the terrorist organization Hamas and the Students for Justice in Palestine group which has chapters on public and private college campuses throughout the United States. He said that his goal with the posters was to “expose the fact that you have organizations that are supported by universities. “I want the university to withdraw all of the funding privileges for a hate group, which is what SJP is. And identify them as a hate group,” Horowitz said. When asked about the specific decision to name the student activists in his posters, Horowitz said “Why shouldn’t you name these people? They don’t want to be responsible for what they do. They claim themselves victims. Why would anyone defend them? They call for the destruction of the Jewish state.”

Is he correct?

He sure is. Protests organized by SJP chapters regularly include hate-speech and chants such as “From the River to the Sea Palestine will be Free” – calling for the destruction of the Jewish State. And it was shown recently that there is a link between SJP and terror organizations.

In response to the fliers, SDSU President Elliot Hirshman and Vice President of Student Affairs Eric Rivera sent out an mail in which they stated that while the university supports free speech, it questioned whether naming students who are against a certain viewpoint could discourage them from taking part in political discussions.

“We raise these issues to strengthen our tradition of vibrant discourse about ideas and issues and encourage all members of our community to participate in these discussions,” the statement read in part.

Leftists and other supporters of the named students would have none of this, and they protested, surrounding President Hirshman and preventing him from leaving campus for about two hours.

One of the named students Rachel Beck was in tears as she described how Muslim students felt.

Sounds like she really cares about the Muslim students on campus.

Jewish students? Not so much.

Rachel Beck is a student at San Diego State University (SDSU), pursuing a major in International Security and Conflict Resolution. Beck is an active member of Students for Justice in Palestine (SJP) SDSU. On July 18, 2014,on Facebook, Beck equated Israel with Hamas and accused the Jewish state of ethnic cleansing. In the same Facebook post, Beck justified SJP’s demonization of Israel and dismissed FBI hate crime data that showed that in 2014 American Jews were more than twice as likely as blacks and three times more likely than Muslims to be victimized by hate crime. Beck implied that the FBI figures were unfairly slanted toward Jews and against other groups, opining that: “in a post-Holocaust post-9/11 America, there may be some religious bias affecting these statistics.”

Or others for that matter.

On Facebook, immediately after the coordinated Islamist-attacks in France during November 2015, many indicated their solidarity with the French terror victims by adopting a French flag filter on Facebook. Beck derided this display of empathy, posting: “French flag on your Facebook? Congratulations on your corporate white supremacy.”

And let’s not forget that SJP has a history of making Jewish students feel way more uncomfortable than these Muslim students would feel.

Another of the students named on the poster, Osama Alkhawaja, has been instrumental in creating a threatening environment for Jewish students.

Alkhawaja organized a “die-in protest” on campus in October 2014 which was supported by members of the Arab Student Association (ASA) and the Muslim Student Association (MSA). A month later, he was heavily involved in the SJP SDSU dropping of approximately 500 leaflets from the top of the student hall ordering students to evacuate immediately and warning that “Those who fail to comply with the instructions will endanger their lives and the lives of their families.”

So Rachel Beck, cry me a river.