http://www.msn.com/en-gb/news/world/syrias-arbitrary-system-of-death-sentences/ar-BBsTtAH
203
20
© Provided by IBT US hama BEIRUT-- The Syrian regime has a new target in Syria: prisons, where most inmates are anti-government political detainees. Activists warned of a potential massacre in Hama province's central prison, after the Syrian regime stormed the jail to stem recent unrest as detainees rioted, protesting their inhumane treatment.



Sheikh Nawwaf al-Melhem, leader of Syrian opposition People's Party, told BBC News Monday that he was able to broker a deal between the regime and inmates. President Bashar Assad’s government has not yet commented on the verbal agreement, but the root of the problem -- prisoners deprived of basic human rights -- remains.

“The situation in Syria’s detention facilities and prisons is deeply unstable and prison conditions should be a priority for the international community,” said Nadim Houry, deputy Middle East director at Human Rights Watch. “Detainees, and their fate, should be at the heart of Syria’s negotiations,” Houry said. “Their release should be on everyone’s priority list.”

Since the start of the Syrian civil war, the Syrian Network For Human Rights (SNHR) has documented the arrests of at least 117,000 people, the majority of whom are being held in either official or unofficial government detention centers. Between May 2015 and April 2016, at least 11,032 people were victim of arbitrary arrest, and roughly 70 percent of those cases were at the hands of the Syrian regime, according to data compiled by International Business Times. An arrest is deemed arbitrary when there is no evidence that a crime was committed.

Unrest inside Hama Central Prison began May 1, when inmates rose up against the prison guards and kidnapped seven of them. Hama’s central prison is housing up to 1500 inmates, roughly 800 of which are political prisoners. Many of them are being held without charge and in worsening conditions, including a recent outbreak of tuberculosis.

Forces loyal to the regime stormed the prison Friday, using tear gas and rubber bullets against inmates. Water and electricity were also shut off in prison cells, according to the Violations Documentation Center (VDC), a Syrian monitoring organization that documents Syria’s detainees. At least 15 prisoners were wounded, according to the BBC.

Concern over Fate of Detainees in #Hama Prison as Regime Renews Attempts to Storm It https://t.co/0S8SIeX447#Syriapic.twitter.com/mDloSQXwf2 — Syrian Coalition (@SyrCoalition) May 7, 2016

“Inmates are running out of food and water and even medicines are no longer being given to those in serious conditions,” Syrian rights activist Mazen Darwish, a former detainee, told Voice of America.

But one of the biggest problems in the prison is the daily death sentences doled out, which violate international law and the Geneva convention. Aside from worsening living conditions, the tipping point for inmates came when security forces attempted to transfer five detainees, who had recently been sentenced to death, to the Sednaya Military Prison in Damascus.

Sednaya Military Prison is infamous for its “abhorrent conditions, including overcrowding, lack of food, inadequate heating and ventilation, poor medical services, and extremely poor sanitary conditions that caused detainees to develop skin diseases and diarrhea,” according to a report from Human Rights Watch.

The five inmates had been sentenced to death by the Field Military Court, “which has secret, closed-door proceedings that do not meet basic fair trial standards,” according to Human Rights Watch. These unlawful sentences are a near-daily occurrence in many of Syria’s detention centers.

The Field Military Courts’ jurisdiction covers the same as the military courts which are only supposed to be used during armed conflict with the “enemy.” By that definition, civilians should not be tried at these courts, which are not subject to any judicial appeal and where lawyers cannot speak to their clients or gain access to their files beforehand.

Conditions worsen for Hama prisoners as they revolt over executions. Gov't bloodbath feared. https://t.co/bWLzHF6ICRpic.twitter.com/lNORniC4PP — Kenneth Roth (@KenRoth) May 8, 2016

But this isn’t the only unlawful fate awaiting Syria’s prisoners. Since the start of the civil war in 2011, a record number of prisoners have had their cases transferred to the Counter-Terrorism Court (CTC), which deals with civilian and military cases of terrorism. In January 2014 alone, 800 cases from Damascus and 400 from Syria’s other provinces were transferred to the CTC, according to the VDC. In 2015, the CTC sentenced 20 inmates from Hama Central Prison to death “for engaging in peaceful protests after grossly unfair trials in May and June, according to Amnesty International.

One of Hama’s prisoners, a 26-year-old from Damascus countryside who asked to remain anonymous, was arrested at a government checkpoint in 2012. His case was transferred to the CTC shortly after. He has yet to see any evidence for his arrest, but he is sure his sentence, whenever it comes, will be brutal.

“Most of the detainees remained here for at least four years and our stories are similar,” the detainee told SNHR. “Whoever possesses money to bribe the judge can get out of here and those who do not must wait years before the courts to pass sentences of death penalty or life imprisonment.”