http://news.stv.tv/scotland/1345442-dunblane-massacre-survivor-wont-be-defined-by-shooting/
203
20
Aimie Adam, then aged five, survived after a teacher told her to crawl into a cupboard.

Tribute: People pay respects to the 16 children who lost their lives. Stefan Rousseau/PA Archive/Press Association Images

Twenty years on from the Dunblane massacre, a survivor has spoken out about her determination not to let the shooting rule her life.

On March 13 1996, Thomas Hamilton walked into Dunblane Primary School's gymnasium armed with a gun.

He fired into the class indiscriminately, killing 16 young pupils and their teacher, Gwen Mayor, before turning the gun on himself.

Aimie Adam was just five years old at the time, surviving after a teacher told her to crawl into a cupboard.

"I don't remember feeling any pain. "There was a weird metallic taste in my mouth and a fuzzy tingly feeling all over my body and I knew everything was not right in my leg.

"You'd think you'd remember something so dramatic but I can't. It's probably a good thing," she told the Sun on Sunday.

Ms Adam spent the longest of all the victims in hospital, suffering a bullet to the right buttock and another that shattered her right thigh, leaving her in a wheelchair for months.

Having made her recovery, Ms Adam now studies mental health nursing at Aberdeen's Robert Gordon University but still bears a limp as a reminder of that day.

"It is 20 years and I am still living with the devastation of it. Nobody got to choose that day."

Of Mr Hamilton, she said: "I absolutely hate the guy. But he's dead and can't do anything to ruin anybody else's life.

"He's in the right place. He cannot ruin my life any more. I definitely haven't let him.

"If you fall out with your best friend or split up with your boyfriend, that upsets me more. I have not let him ruin me."

To mark the 20th anniversary of the shooting, STV productions has filmed a documentary, speaking to survivors as well as head teacher Ron Taylor and the family of some of the victims.

Dunblane: Our Story will be broadcast on BBC Two and BBC One Scotland at 9pm on Wednesday.