http://www.island.lk/index.php?page_cat=article-details&page=article-details&code_title=141564
203
20
This may be my last letter on the National Anthem issue and that too was prompted by Prof. Carlo Fonseka’s letter titled "NA and Tribalism ". In that he criticizes Dr. Gunadasa Amarasekera for saying that a unitary state must have one NA. I, being an old salt, hate to get into an argument with an accomplished, reputed intellect such as CF but let me briefly outline my views as follows.

The Unitary nature of a State cannot be compared to a set of teeth of an adult as stated by CF. Such comparison itself, shows the kind of respect he has towards the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the country. When teeth drop due to age they can be replaced with dentures, but if the unitary character of a country is destroyed it would be near impossible to bring it back or would cause another massive blood bath before it is re-united.

Carlo says that we are trying to ram the Sinhala NA down the throats of 2 million Tamil brethren in the country. Let me ask CF: What happens in India? Is the Indian NA written in Bengali being rammed down the throats of 76 million Tamils in Tamil Nadu? Why is there no request/demand even from Jayalalitha to such effect? And why is it that no professor supports her? I think Carlo must answer these questions before he writes anything about NA again.

In the North, the LTTE, practising "ethnic cleansing", chased away, some beyond reach, ‘all’ the Sinhalese (and Muslims) from the area. Jaffna is ever so proximate to Tamil Nadu where 76 million Tamils live, and can readily be drawn in as part of Tamil Nadu. The ruthless killer Prabhakaran tried to separate the North from the rest of Sri Lanka with military might and failed miserably. Now the present CM Vigneswaran is trying the same by ‘political means’. The powerful Tamil Diaspora, the TNA, and even UNHRC Zeid Hussein are trying hard to make the North federate with, if not separate from, the rest of the country. They have already laid a solid foundation in that regard with the help of the present government. Soldiers who defeated LTTE are being prosecuted. Eelam flag and flags with Prabakaran’s picture are displayed openly at meetings in Jaffna. Singing the NA in Tamil (thereby blatantly violating the Constitution of the country) comes at a time such as this. Even an ordinary citizen in the country knows that it is a morale booster for the separatists and a treacherous step towards their "goal". One need not be a professor to understand that, but if professors try to justify it by throwing away dentures and meat to dogs, deliberately ignoring the separatist movement in the North, it is natural to suspect that there is a hidden agenda behind such attempts at justifying such efforts.

When I was the Commanding Officer of the Karainagar Naval base in 1993, I recall how tiny little innocent Tamil girls and boys sang our NA in Sinhala at various functions. The way they pronounced the Sinhala words with a Tamil accent brought tears to my eyes. When I was leaving the camp after my tenure of office, I was able to bring tears to the eyes of all the people in Karainagar because of the way I had treated them - like my own brothers and sisters and parents. There was no demand from any Tamil in Jaffna to sing the NA in Tamil. It was not an issue. So it is not the ordinary Tamil brethren who want it but the power hungry, separatist, greedy Tamil leaders and their Sinhalese stooges who are on the payroll of the Diaspora. It is very unfortunate that the so called Sinhalese intellectuals, in the name of Compassion preached by the Buddha, play into their hands.

CF’s "ding dong bell" example too is highly irrelevant to this argument. Where are the Tribal Trait Sinhalese nationalists, he is talking about? Leave aside nationalists, how many ordinary Sinhalese live in Kotahena, Jampettah Street, Wellawatta, Bambalapitiya not to mention Jaffna, Kilinochchi, Mulativu, Vavuniya? All important business premises are dominated by Tamil and Muslim brethren and can that happen if there are tribal trait Sinhalese nationalists? The alleged charge of "severe discrimination against Tamils by the majority Sinhalese", to which CF also subscribes, is a part of a diabolical conspiracy to get the world’s sympathy to achieve their malicious goal.

Can CF very truly show us instances where the Sinhalese majority demonstrated superiority over numerically weak Tamils and Muslims as claimed by him? How many (Muslim) mosques have come up around the Sri Dalada Maligawa? Have any Sinhalese Buddhist protested against it to date? How many Tamil Kovils are mushrooming yearly in the Colombo area? Do the Sinhalese object to that? The Chief Minister in the North, Vigneswaran, must indeed be a friend of CF. Vigneswaran who was born among Sinhalese, studied with Sinhalese, worked and lived among Sinhalese for 65 years has the audacity to announce that Sinhalese have no right to live in Jaffna! He also says Tamils should not marry Sinhalese. Can he prevent even his own children from doing so? How does CF brand such a man? A tribal trait Tamil nationalist?

The Sinhalese believe that all the Tamils and Muslims in the country are brothers and sisters in one unitary country and that’s why there is no protest by them whenever Tamils or Muslims buy land, build kovils/mosques anywhere in the country, sometimes in the middle of Sinhala villages. All the Sinhalese patronize supermarkets, jewellery shops, garment shops etc. owned and run by Tamils and Muslims, without any discrimination. So Sinhalese Buddhists are not Chimpanzees as CF is trying to imply, but people who treat all communities equally, who are tolerant and altruistic, moulded by the great philosophy of the Buddha through thousands of years.

Although such is the case, whenever the country’s sovereignty / territorial integrity was at stake, it was the Sinhalese who came forward to defend the country sacrificing their lives. It was the Sinhalese who fought against the South Indian invaders like the Cholas, Kalinga, Maga et al. It was the Sinhalese who fought against the Portuguese, the Dutch and the British. It was the Sinhalese Buddhists who got massacred, lost everything including land, cattle, paddy fields, by trying to revolt against the European invaders. Even during the recent Age of Terrorism, 99% of the men/women who were killed/maimed were Sinhalese. Their supreme sacrifice has enabled all communities in the country to live happily without fear and attend to their businesses.

Supposing the North becomes a federal state, and if a female relative of CF happens to be harmed by criminals who manages to escape to the North, our police will have to take permission from Vigneswaran to enter Jaffna and that, too, in civilian clothes! Carlo, being a socio-biology maestro who seems to be busy studying "fundamental inherited human traits such as tribalism", may still not care two hoots about such a situation. But, I am sure, others do care because our country should be a unitary state with a single police force for the benefit of all communities. Our people have laid down their precious lives to preserve the unitary nature of the State. If it becomes a Federal state, all their efforts to date would have been in vain. That’s why we say, the NA which is a symbol of the sovereignty of the country, should be in one language only. Opposition to singing it in Tamil has got nothing to do with our Tamil brethren.

Rear Admiral Dr. Sarath Weerasekera

VSV RWP