http://www.straight.com/news/652381/gurpreet-singh-indian-human-rights-advocate-harvinder-singh-phoolka-honoured-surrey
202
20
1 of 3 2 of 3

On Wednesday (March 2), Harvinder Singh Phoolka, who's spent 32 years been for justice for victims of 1984 the anti-Sikh pogrom in India, was honoured with Lifetime Achievement Award for Human Rights.

A visiting lawyer from India, Phoolka is currently on Canada-wide tour.

The event at the Progressive Cultural Centre in Surrey was hosted by Radical Desi magazine in partnership with social-justice activists.

Phoolka was presented with a memento in recognition of his ongoing legal fight for justice and a book, Defenders of Secularism, which has a chapter about him. He also received a calendar dedicated to the 300 years of the martyrdom of Sikh warrior Banda Singh Bahadur, who introduced land reforms in Punjab in the early 18th century.

Phoolka himself is a survivour of the anti-Sikh massacre that followed the assassination of then Indian prime minister Indira Gandhi by her Sikh bodyguards on October 31, 1984.

She was murdered in retaliation for the Indian government's military assault on the Golden Temple Complex, the holiest shrine of the Sikhs in Amritsar, in June of that year. The army operation was launched to flush out religious extremists who had fortified the place of worship.

The anti-Sikh riots were organized by leaders of Gandhi's Congress party with the help of police and hired goons. In the national capital of New Delhi alone, at least 3,000 Sikhs were slaughtered. The administration became ineffective in countering attacks in all the states under Congress rule.

Phoolka fought for justice

Phoolka began documenting the cases of the victims of violence and never looked back after that.

He continues to fight almost singlehandedly to get senior Congress leaders prosecuted.

Although no senior Congress leader has been convicted so far, his efforts culminated into the setting up of Nanavati commission that presented detailed evidence against several topnotch leaders. This resulted in the removal of those involved from the ministerial positions and denial of nomination for running for office.

Phoolka also coauthored a book about his search for justice and closure with Manoj Mitta, a prominent journalist. When a Tree Shook Delhi takes a direct dig at Rajiv Gandhi, the son of Indira Gandhi—whom he succeeded as prime minister after his mother's death.

He came to power with a brute majority in the Lok Sabha (Indian parliament) by riding on the anti-Sikh wave. In an attempt to justify the killings of the Sikhs, Rajiv Gandhi said that "when a mighty tree falls, it is only natural that the earth around it does shake a little.”

Phoolka recently released the video of Rajiv Gandhi's controversial public statement. Phoolka has also started a campaign seeking revocation of Bharat Ratna, the highest civilian award conferred upon Rajiv Gandhi by the Indian government.

Harvinder Singh Phoolka's book has detailed the role of Congress leaders in the slaughter of Sikhs in 1984.

Advocate's efforts have not always been appreciated

Phoolka had many ups and downs during all these years of campaigning. Not only have Congress leaders been attacking his credibility, but opportunist Sikh leaders hobnobbing with the Congress party have also been trying to malign him.

Even the Akali Dal, the mainstream political party of the Sikhs and an arch rival of the Congress party in Punjab, has berated him a number of times. This occurred even as the Akali Dal has been raking up the issue of 1984 for political gains.

The Akali Dal is the partner of the Hindu nationalist Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) that currently runs the country. BJP officials were involved in the anti-Muslim massacre in Gujarat in 2002.

The current prime minister of India, Narendra Modi, was chief minister of Gujarat back then. The killings followed the burning of a train carrying Hindu pilgrims. Over 50 people died in the incident, which was blamed on Islamic extremists by Modi government.

The BJP adopted a similar method against Muslims as Congress officials applied to the Sikh community. And justice was never served to the victims of Sikh genocide even under the BJP government.

Politicians learned from attacks on Sikhs

Phoolka believes that had justice been served to the Sikhs for 1984, other religious minorities in India would never have been targeted in later years. He also thinks that the Sikh genocide taught Indian politicians how to target one minority community and win elections.

Phoolka has now joined the fledgling Aam Aadmi Party—a group of activists running a state government in New Delhi.

He never received any support from the Akali Dal when he ran in the parliamentary elections in Ludhiana in 2014. In fact, the Akali Dal tried to malign him during that campaign, fielding its own candidate against him. As a result, Phoolka lost by a small margin to a Congress party candidate.

In spite of these challenges, Phoolka never gave up faith on the Indian system. Nor did he compromise with fundamentalist forces within the Sikh community.

Khalistanis have criticized Phoolka

In 2008, when he was visiting Canada he rather gave a jolt to the Sikh leaders seeking a separate country of Khalistan, an imaginary homeland to be carved out of India. When a section of Khalistan supporters tried to appropriate his struggle, he categorically announced that he is a proud Indian and his fight is only for justice. Then he walked out of a Sikh temple that supports a separate homeland.

During his current visit too, Phoolka has once again come under attack from Khalistanis, who accused him of asking for "symbolic justice" in a TV interview.

Phoolka has clarified that his comment has been taken out of context. He only meant that since years have passed, the time for real justice has already lapsed, as many of the perpetrators and the witnesses have died. But he feels it is important to punish a few Congress leaders against whom his legal fight still goes on.

Phoolka also believes in peaceful means to resolve any problem.

Several years ago when there were angry demonstrations by Sikh activists seeking justice for the events of 1984, he urged them to show restraint and avoid blocking roads and causing public inconvenience. He also encouraged people to plant trees in memory of those killed.

Those who presented him the award at the Wednesday event included Sunil Kumar, a volunteer of an annual blood drive in commemoration of the victims of 1984. The others were Avtar Singh Dhillon, who fought for the right to wear a turban while driving a motorcycle; Parminder Swaich of the Indian rationalist society; Jai Birdi, the leader of the Chetna Association, which battles caste-based oppression; and independent leftist activist Parshotam Dosanjh. Dosanjh and Birdi are among the founders of Radical Desi.

Surrey-Newton MP Sukh Dhaliwal welcomed Phoolka on behalf of Surrey residents, while MLA Harry Bains sent his staff to give a certificate of appreciation to Phoolka. It is pertinent to mention that Dhaliwal has tabled a petition in the Canadian House of Commons seeking justice for the Sikh genocide.

Dr. Gurvinder Singh Dhaliwal, a well-known Punjabi broadcaster, was master of ceremonies.

On Saturday (March 5) Harvinder Singh Phoolka will speak from 12 p.m. to 4 p.m. at a free public event at Aria Banquet Hall (12350 Pattullo Place) in Surrey.

Video of Harvinder Singh Phoolka Latest Speech in Surrey BC Canada Harvinder Singh Phoolka spoke in Surrey about his efforts to help victims of the anti-Sikh pogrom in 1984.

Gurpreet Singh is a Georgia Straight contributor and a founder of Radical Desi. He's working on a book tentatively titled Canada's 9/11: Lessons from the Air India Bombings. He has a Facebook page called We Are All Untouchables!!!