http://www.commercialappeal.com/columnists/david-waters/time-to-tell-the-truth-it-was-a-massacre-not-just-a-riot-2d3b7704-8803-5406-e053-0100007f3616-371109431.html
202
20
Dr. Reavis Mitchell, a history professor at Fisk University and chairman of the Tennessee Historical Commission, presides over a commission discussion Friday over a historical marker commemorating the Memphis race riots and massacre of 1866.

British troops shot and killed five Massachusetts colonists in 1770.

We call it the Boston Massacre.

Four gangsters dressed as police officers executed seven men, six of them gangsters, in Chicago in 1929.

We call it the St. Valentine's Day Massacre.

Dozens of white men, many of them police officers, indiscriminately killed at least 40 black men, women and children in Memphis in 1866.

We call it the Memphis race riot?

That's how we refer to it, ever so briefly and quietly, in a county historical marker for "Schools for Freedmen" Downtown.

"All were burned during the May 1866 race riot," it says in the sign's fourth sentence.

More than 40 innocent people were killed and dozens more injured, several women were raped, and dozens of schools, churches and dozens of buildings were destroyed 150 years ago, and we still don't have a memorial?

An entire community was targeted and devastated and the word riot doesn't even merit a capital letter?

No wonder the Memphis Branch of the NAACP is having so much trouble getting the Tennessee Historical Commission to call it what it was.

A massacre.

Massacre is the word used by Dr. Stephen V. Ash, a University of Tennessee-Knoxville history professor and author of "A Massacre in Memphis," the one and only history of the tragic event that galvanized congressional support for the Fourteenth Amendment and Radical Reconstruction.

"My dictionary defines a massacre as 'the unnecessary, indiscriminate killing of a large number of human beings or animals,'" he wrote in a letter given to the commission.

"The events in Memphis certainly fit that definition. To label those events only as a riot puts them in the same category with many less bloody and less shocking events in American history, and thus understates their significance."

Massacre is the word used by Dr. Beverly Bond, a University of Memphis history professor who is helping to organize local efforts to commemorate the tragedy.

The word massacre places the "focus of the African-American men, women and children who were victimized, not the 'rioters' who raged and rampaged through the affected neighborhoods," she wrote to the commission.

Massacre is the word used by Dr. Timothy Huebner, a Rhodes College history professor who is teaching an adult education class on Ash's book, and whose expertise includes the Civil War and Reconstruction.

"Race riot is just a misnomer. It was a massacre," he said.

Massacre is the word used by the U.S. House Select Committee on the Memphis Riots, which interviewed more than 200 victims and witnesses in May 1866.

"The proportions of what is called the 'riot,' but in reality the massacre, proved to be far more extended ..." it said in the committee's final report, entitled "Memphis Riots and Massacres."

1866 Memphis Massacre is what the local NAACP called it in its application last July for a state marker.

The NAACP's proposed text notes that "mobs of white men led by local law enforcement attacked black people (and) killed an estimated 46 black people ..."

On Sept. 10, Memphis attorney Paul Matthews, a member of the state historical commission, submitted a "redraft" of the NAACP's application calling it: Memphis Race Riot of 1866

Matthews' redraft said "The riot was an explosion of rage and violence perpetrated not by ex-Confederates but by up to 300 Irish immigrants ... At least 30 blacks were murdered ..."

On Oct. 16, the state historical commission, with the great-great-grandsons of Nathan Bedford Forrest present, approved the Matthews title and most of his redraft.

"It's always been known as the Memphis race riot. There's no need to rename it," Matthews said at the meeting, held in Historic Jonesborough, 500 miles from Memphis.

Jonesborough once was home of The Emancipator, the first American periodical dedicated exclusively to the abolition of slavery.

On Feb. 19, the state historical commission met again, this time at Fisk University, the historically black college founded in Nashville in 1866.

The commission approved a revised text with a two-line title:

Memphis Race Riot of 1866

"The Memphis Massacre"

The revised text said, "An estimated 200-300 white people, the great majority of whom were Irish immigrants, including many policeman, attacked recently emancipated black people ... At least 40 blacks were murdered ..."

Last week, the local NAACP rejected the commission’s proposed title and text. They plan to notify the commission this weekend.

No one is sure what happens next.

"We can't give the victims justice. They are long since passed. But we can give them historical justice and moral justice by acknowledging the truth about what happened," said Madeline Taylor, Memphis branch executive director.

She's not just talking about the historic truth.

Dr. Andre Johnson, a U of M communications professor and a pastor, calls it "the Black Truth".

"For African-Americans who testified at the time, for those who died, and for African-Americans here in Memphis today, it was a massacre," Johnson said.

"If you don't fundamentally believe my testimony, my truth, it's going to be very hard to talk about race and racism and about moving forward in this community."

An 1866 Memphis Massacre marker would be historic.

It would be the first in the nation dedicated to a Reconstruction-era event.

It also would be the first to tell the Black Truth about race in Memphis.

Both are long overdue.

-----------------------