http://www.thenewamerican.com/usnews/immigration/item/22687-obama-s-double-migration-surge-muslim-refugees-and-unaccompanied-children
202
20
President Obama’s planned Syrian refugee resettlement “surge” is back, it appears, with plans to resume its earlier ambitions of boosting our country's intake of those designated as "refugees" to the 100,000 mark — or more. That's in addition to the ongoing massive immigration/migration influx that his policies have also exacerbated.

Last September, Secretary of State John Kerry announced during a press conference in Berlin, Germany, the Obama administration’s plans to increase the annual number of refugees accepted by the United States from what was then the current level of 85,000 to a new annual base of “100,000, and if it’s possible to do more, we’ll do [more].” He also specifically said the United States would take “at least” 10,000 Syrian refugees.

As we reported last October ("Is Obama’s Refugee 'Surge' Coming to Your Town?"), President Obama’s Assistant Secretary of State Anne Richard, who heads the Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration (PRM), had already revealed nearly a year earlier the plan to “surge” Syrian refugees into the United States. At a conference in Geneva, Switzerland, with UN High Commissioner for Refugees Antonio Guterres on December 9, 2014, Assistant Secretary Richard stated: “The United States accepts the majority of all UNHCR referrals from around the world. Last year, we reached our goal of resettling nearly 70,000 refugees from nearly 70 countries. And we plan to lead in resettling Syrians as well. We are reviewing some 9,000 recent UNHCR referrals from Syria. We are receiving roughly a thousand new ones each month, and we expect admissions from Syria to surge in 2015 and beyond.”

However, the Paris terrorist massacres by “refugee” jihadists and the tidal wave of more than one million migrants flooding into the European Union in just a few months during 2015, put the brakes — temporarily — on the planned U.S. surge. Most Americans had been completely unaware that the U.S. State Department and the UN High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) had established a massive network of private contractors, public agencies, churches, and NGOs covering virtually every part of the United States (see the official State Dept. map here) and targeting hundreds of communities for the refugee surge. People realized we were perilously close to experiencing the same “refugee” invasion that was already engulfing Europe. However, the graphic reports and images from the continent caused serious pushback from the American public, the U.S. Congress, state governors, local governments, and more. When our top federal law enforcement and intelligence officials publicly testified that they had no way to vet the proposed refugees — no way to evaluate whether they had any terrorist ties, or even to know for certain which country they are from — the administration knew it had to back off. Now, however, the refugee resettlement push is back on.

“The White House is quietly pushing for an increase in refugees from Syria, despite new concerns raised by state and county officials that federal help is often missing when they arrive,” the Washington Examiner’s Paul Bedard reported on February 29. The Examiner article continues:

President Obama's assistant for immigration policy told a task force set up by the National Association of Counties that the U.S. is eyeing a bigger role to help alleviate the growing crisis.

"We want to make sure that we can increase our numbers of refugees that are able to settle here," Felicia Escobar said. "The need globally is so, so, so massive right now, given all the displacement and conflict around the world, but we also know that we have to do it in a way that's smart."

Missoula, Montana, is one of the areas that has been targeted for the new campaign of “smart” refugee resettlement. However, the Obama administration is going to face continued and increased resistance to this program. And with this being an election year, relatively few of even the most “progressive” Democrat elected officials and candidates are willing to go out on this limb with Obama.

The Other “Surge”: 75,000 Across Our Southern Border

On March 1, the top law enforcement official charged with protecting our nation’s borders told a congressional committee he expects a “surge” of 75,000 “unaccompanied children” across our southern border in 2016. What he didn’t say was that it was the unaccompanied child “amnesty” illegally initiated in 2014 by his boss, President Obama, that is responsible for this ongoing crisis.

R. Gil Kerlikowske, commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP), testifying before the Subcommittee on Homeland Security of the House Appropriations Committee, said that due to the surge he would need millions of dollars more for the CBP budget. According to Kerlikowske’s testimony:

During FY 2014, the U.S. Government experienced an unprecedented increase in the number of unaccompanied children (UC) crossing the Southwest border, compared to previous years. The surge created a resource challenge for CBP and other Federal partners responsible for responding to the urgent humanitarian situation.

For FY 2016, through January 31, 2016, USBP has apprehended over 20,000 UC crossing the Southwest border, compared to approximately 10,000 UC apprehensions during the same time period in FY 2015. Although the numbers have recently declined, UC flows are fluctuating and CBP anticipates seasonal increases throughout FY 2016 and into FY 2017. For FY 2017, CBP requests resources to support a revised baseline of 75,000 UC apprehensions as well as a contingency fund should arrivals exceed prior year levels.

Of course, we are likely to find out that the announced 100,000/year refugees and the 75,000 projected unaccompanied children are just the tip of the iceberg, hiding much larger numbers that are being funneled in under other designations. That is what citizens of the UK have recently found out, confirming suspicions that former Prime Minister Tony Blair was outright lying about the numbers of refugees and migrants his government was bringing into the country. The new book by British investigative journalist Tom Bower, Broken Vows — Tony Blair: The Tragedy of Power, accuses Blair of presiding over a conspiracy in which he and his Labour Party minions smuggled more than two million migrants into Britain.

Photo of Central American migrants heading toward U.S.-Mexico border: AP Images

Related articles:

Is Obama’s Refugee “Surge” Coming to Your Town?

As DHS Plans to Cut Border Patrol Agents, More Illegals Plan to Cross Border Before Trump Builds Wall

Border Patrol Agents Ordered to Stand Down in Enforcing Immigration Laws

Border Patrol Union Leader Sees Surge in Unaccompanied Children Coming

Border Patrol Agent: Obama Admin. Releasing Murderers Into U.S.

EU Exploits Refugees to Usurp More Power, Build Armed Force

New Book Exposes Failed Immigration Policies of Former U.K. Prime Minister Tony Blair

Dirty Campaign to Stop Brit EU Exit: Refugee Deluge, Interrogating Schoolkids, Hiding Tax Hikes

Refugee Controversy Hits U.S. Heartland

Soros and CFR Exploit Refugee Crisis for New World Order

No Vetting of Syrian “Refugees” in Obama’s “Resettlement” Invasion

UN, Socialist International, Obama Design U.S. Refugee Resettlement