http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3562511/Port-Arthur-massacre-victim-s-son-Nesan-Kistan-says-forgives-Martin-Bryant-20th-anniversary.html
202
20
A man whose father was killed during the Port Arthur massacre 20 years ago has recalled how the tragedy changed the entire course of his life.

Nesan Kistan, who lives in Sydney with his wife and four children, lost his father Tony when the gunman opened fire inside the Broad Arrow Cafe on April 28, 1996, killing 35 people.

On the 20 year anniversary of Australia's largest massacre by a single person - Mr Kistan, 44, has revealed how he came to forgive gunman Martin Bryant.

Scroll down for video

Nesan Kistan, pictured here with his wife Cheryl and their four children Joshua, Samuel, Micah, and Faith, said he forgives Martin Bryant for murdering his father in the Port Arthur massacre

Nesan Kistan's father Tony (left) was killed in the Port Arthur massacre, and his mother Sarah (right) survived. They are pictured here just days before the shooting

The shooting killed 35 people and injured a further 23 and is largest massacre by a single person in Australian history

When his father was killed, his parents had been holidaying in Tasmania and Mr Kistan's mother Sarah survived the attack after her husband pushed her to safety. His father died trying to save others inside the cafe.

In the days following the horrific shooting, which Mr Kistan said were incredibly 'chaotic', the then 22-year-old had been advised by a Salvation Army officer to address the media.

It was on the way to address the media from a Salvation Army headquarters in Sydney he was able to have a moment of reflection.

'I remember jumping in the officer's car and the ten minutes sitting in his car were probably the first ten minutes in that week I had time just to stop and be still.

'I remember this incredible revelation,' he said.

'This guy Martin Bryant, who murdered my father, deserved love, grace and forgiveness.

'I actually feel a whole lot of sorrow for the man, I think he was only a young man and for him to do what he did... he was very sick'.

When his father was killed, Mr Kistan's parents had been holidaying in Tasmania

This family photo was taken of Nesan (left) Sarah (second left), Nesan's brother Adrian (right) and father Tony (back) in the early 1990s

Shooter Martin Bryant opened fired in the Broad Arrow Cafe on April 28, 1996 killing 35 people and injuring a further 23

Pictured here is Tony Kistan, who his son described as 'incredibly brave' for saving his Sarah's life

In 1981 Mr Kistan, his mother and father, and younger brother Adrian had fled apartheid in South Africa, leaving them separated from many relatives.

Gunman Martin Bryant had torn their family apart for a second time, however Mr Kistan recalls vividly the moment he forgave the shooter in a deeply personal 'spiritual moment'.

'It's a time in your life that you never forget,' he told Daily Mail Australia.

'I remember having to let people know - my dad's family and my mum's family lived overseas in South Africa... ringing my dad's father was the worst', he revealed.

At the time of the massacre Mr Kistan had been aspiring to great wealth while studying a a double honours degree in psychology and politics.

Although he completed his degree, he said the tragedy led him to instead devote his life to helping others, and he almost immediately began working with the Salvation Army.

Mr Kistan started as a pastor working with at-risk youth, and today is the Director for multicultural ministries across the eastern seaboard.

'I can sit here and wallow in self-pity and woe is me I suffered such a great loss... or I could become not just another whinging whining individual but I could become a solution to the problem.

Mr Kistan said his family do not dwell on the horror of Port Arthur but celebrate his father's life

'I like the saying about the glass being half empty or glass half full - I like to always look at things from an optimistic and positive way.'

While his family do not dwell on the horror of what happened at Port Arthue 20 years ago, they do commemorate Tony Kistan's life in other ways.

'We don't like to highlight the sadness or the grief of the day, but we celebrate my father's life in so many ways such as his birthday.

'We celebrate who he was and the courage he had.

'We could have lost both our parents but we were fortunate enough that through our father's incredible bravery our mother survived.

'He sacrificed himself and endeavoured to save others,' Mr Kistan said.