http://classic.iol.co.za/sundayindependent/genocide-in-the-making-1.1977801
203
20
AP A man begs for help from the military after hiding in a drain to escape a lynch mob in Bujumbura, Burundi, where the UN has noted an alarming rise in ethnic killings. Picture: Associated Press

Independent Media Foreign Editor Shannon Ebrahim spent the past week in Burundi, which most foreign media have fled. This is her story.

UN officials on the ground in Bujumbura have finally acknowledged that a slow yet steady genocide against Tutsis is under way. There is the important caveat that the Hutu opposition is also being targeted, which means genocide and targeted killing are taking place in parallel.

It is now for the continent’s leaders to see the situation for what it really is.

AU heads of state are in Addis Ababa this weekend to discuss whether to deploy AU troops to Burundi. They must not be allowed to say they didn’t know.

Read: Mass graves found in Burundi: Amnesty

A refrain on the streets is: “Why is the international community waiting for large-scale massacres? It is not about the magnitude of the killing, but the intent. The regime is targeting Tutsis with a view to killing a small number over time. That is genocide.”

Burundi’s leaders have made little effort to hide their ethnic agenda. Since violence flared up last year when President Pierre Nkurunziza announced his intention to run for a third term, the regime has used ethnicity in the hope of uniting the Hutu population behind it.

Most Hutu leaders are afraid as they remember the decades of minority Tutsi domination, and the genocidal massacres of Hutus in 1972 and the 1990s.

Read: Burundi tops agenda at AU summit

This has fed into an ethnic narrative, propagated by senior members of the ruling party, that seeks to rid the country of Tutsis.

The message has come down from the president. Just before the end of his second term, Nkurunziza told supporters: “There are people who are nostalgic and want to come back to power – it’s the problem.”

It is widely understood he was referring to the Tutsi minority who ruled the country for 40 years from 1962.

In April, Nkurunziza said on Radio France24 that protesters opposed to his seeking a third term were from Tutsi areas and “want to stage a comeback supported by Kagame” – a reference to TUT.

Read: Ex-Burundi leaders plead for UN troops

On the campaign trail, in comments directed at the Tutsi minority, Nkurunziza said: “We shall finish you slowly, the way we finish sima.” Sima is similar to mealie pap.

Permanent Secretary of Foreign Affairs Joseph Bangurambona – whose post is the equivalent of a deputy minister – told Independent Media this week: “Tutsis want a Tutsi regime, as in Rwanda. They are doing everything to show this government is criminal.”

The second-most powerful politician after the president is national assembly Speaker Pascal Nyabenda, president of the ruling party. Interviewed this week, he said: “Tutsis want to come back to power, but they know they can’t come back through elections – so the strategy they use is to put a Hutu in front.”

Asked about the Hutus swelling the ranks of the opposition, he said: “Tutsis cannot do anything alone, they have paid the Hutus to demonstrate and oppose this government.”

Two weeks ago, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Zeid Ra’ad Al-Hussein, publicly noted the alarming patterns of violence and the reported existence of at least nine mass graves. The same allegations have been made by the International Committee of the Red Cross and Amnesty International.

Asked why security forces were being allowed to continue human rights violations with impunity, hiding their crimes in mass graves, Nyabenda said: “If the police are confronted by a man with a gun, what do you expect them to do?”

There has been no official denial of the existence of mass graves.

A senior member of the ruling party has said: “The problem is not the third term, please look to people who killed Ndadaye – they are like the seeds of a pumpkin.”

Melchior Ndadaye, the first Hutu president, won the 1993 elections, but was assassinated in a coup by Tutsi military officers three months later.

Pumpkin seeds are said to spread everywhere.

Last year, senate president Reverien Ndikuriyo called on Hutu supporters to “Gukora” or “go to work” – a term used in the Rwandan genocide of 1994 and understood to mean “get your machete and kill Tutsis”.

Ndikuriyo followed this up by urging Hutus to “clean the neighbourhoods”, with a warning that those who did not go to work would not be given plots of land. Burundians understood this to mean Hutus were being urged to cleanse neighbourhoods of Tutsis, with the promise of being given their land.

Ndikuriyo has been widely quoted as having said: “You tell those who want to execute the mission: on this issue, you have to pulverise, you have to exterminate – these people are only good for dying. I give you this order, go.”

These statements give a clear indication of the ruling party’s intentions. The message has filtered down to its foot soldiers in the security forces and the specially created Hutu militias.

The attack on three army camps on December 11 provided a pretext for the security forces and Hutu militias to “Gukora”. In the ethnic cleansing that followed in Tutsi-dominated neighbourhoods, more than 150 people died, according to some UN officials on the ground – not 87, which was the official figure.

According to Hussein, Tutsis were killed systematically in the December 11 and 12 raids in the predominantly Tutsi areas of Musaga, Nyakabiga, Ngagara, Citiboke and Mutakura.

“Police and army forces arrested considerable numbers of young men, many of whom were later tortured, killed or taken to unknown destinations,” Hussein said.

“The Imbonerakure militia reportedly took part.”

The Imbonerakure is a Hutu militia that became operational in 2011, with its foot soldiers being deployed across Burundi.

Many were taken to secluded camps in the Democratic Republic of the Congo for training, including indoctrination against Tutsis.

Some were recruited from jails, where they were serving life sentences for killing Tutsis in 1993.

Today the Imbonerakure constitutes a virtual parallel administration and controls villages.

The Imbonerakure was central to the December 11 and 12 massacres and has a record of using rape. Many militiamen were told by military officers to “impregnate your enemy’s wife so the baby will look like you”.

According to the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, “the pattern of the raids (in December) was similar in all cases: the security forces allegedly entered the victim’s homes, separated the women… and raped and in some cases gang-raped them.” Some of those raped were told they were “paying the price for being a Tutsi”.

Daily, bodies are found in the streets and ditches of Bujumbura, sometimes six, on other days 20.

“All the alarm signals, including the increasing ethnic dimension of the crisis, are flashing red,” said Hussein.

There are no active military or human rights observers from the AU in Burundi. A small team deployed six months ago to oversee disarmament, demobilisation, and the reintegration of armed groups have remained in their hotel.

In a critical period in Burundi’s degeneration into chaos, these crucial monitors were prevented from doing their work by protracted negotiations over a memorandum of understanding with the government.

This weekend will be the most serious test of the credibility of the AU Peace and Security Architecture.

If it cannot, or will not, respond with an immediate crisis response force in a situation where the top UN human rights official has sounded the alarm, then all the best of intentions of providing African solutions to African problems will be no more than a theory.

The time to deploy is now.

The Sunday Independent

** Use IOL’s Facebook and Twitter pages to comment on our stories. See links below.

IOL on Twitter

IOL News on Facebook

Get our free IOL newsletters - subscribe here...

Related Stories