http://www.themalaymailonline.com/opinion/zurairi-ar/article/we-can-no-longer-afford-our-anti-shiah-stance
203
20
We can no longer afford our anti-Shiah stance

Zurairi AR is a humanist and sceptic who believes in doing good for goodness' sake. He tweets for believers and non-believers alike at @zurairi.

JANUARY 31 — Economic sanctions against Iran were lifted by the United Nations on January 16 after the Islamic republic held up their end of the nuclear deal, prompting President Hassan Rouhani to embark on a European tour to establish lost ties — particularly those that involve money.

The stories told so far are a painful reminder of the clash of cultures still happening even in the 21st century. It makes an amusing read.

A lunch between Rouhani and French President François Hollande reportedly had to be cancelled because the French insisted on having the meal their way — complete with wine served at the side. The Iranian, instead wanted a fully-halal affair. Oh, those French folks!

Meanwhile, nude statues in a Rome museum, Musei Capitolini, were actually covered in white boxes, allegedly to prevent offence to Rouhani while he was holding a joint press conference with Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi. Even when the Iranians did not request it.

Silly as it may sound, Renzi’s government also did the same thing when a high-ranking United Arab Emirates government official visited Firenze three months ago.

Is that how Italians view Muslims, or Middle Eastern folks? That they will take offence at the sight of nude statues? Say, do you not wonder how that assumption came to be?

It might be a slightly different story with Malaysia. Amid decades of sanction, Malaysia has had quite a history with Iran, stretching back to the 1979 Iranian Revolution itself.

Iranian President Hassan Rouhani waves during his visit to the Colosseum in Rome, Italy, January 27, 2016. — Reuters picThe revolution pushed Malaysians into a frenzy of Islamic activism and gave rise to political Islam, kicking off their obsession with Islamism. This frenzy manifested itself in the rise of Islamic awareness, but in truth is closer to increased conservatism — such as the sudden prevalence of women wearing the tudung.

All this while, Malaysia has committed itself to warm and friendly relations between the two countries; both are members of the Organisation of Islamic Conference (OIC) and the Non-Aligned Movement. Trade relations remained unaffected, according to Matrade.

In 2004, Malaysia was identified by New York Times as the hub of Pakistani nuclear enrichment programme chief Abdul Qadeer Khan’s network for nuclear trade.

In 2014, Financial Times reported that Malaysia is among the countries used to resell Iranian oil as part of the republic’s scheme under former Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad to circumvent trade sanctions.

It remains to be seen how Malaysia will figure in increased geopolitical tensions between Iran and Saudi Arabia, the latter perhaps a bigger economical and political ally for Malaysia.

After all, Putrajaya had allegedly received a billion-dollar injection from Saudi to halt the rise of Islamist party PAS in the last general elections, purportedly to stem the influential rise of the Muslim Brotherhood.

With this new cold war afoot, will we see Saudi stepping up efforts once again to secure its influence over Islamic countries, including Malaysia?

After all, it is no secret that Iran and Saudi Arabia are in a competition to establish themselves as the legitimate representative of all Muslims.

University of Virginia’s political professor William Quandt wrote that it all started, again, with the 1979 revolution. Iran just toppled its pro-Western Shah, turning from a secular nation to a pro-Shiah theocracy. And they were trying to export that revolution to other Middle Eastern countries.

Of course, this naturally scares Saudi — an absolute monarchy held by the indomitable House Of Saud — which retaliates by exporting its own brand of ultra-conservative Salafi teachings, also know as Wahhabism through the Gulf Cooperation Council with its regional allies.

The rest is history, and perhaps came to be the worldwide Sunni-Shia strife as we know it today, as both regime uses their Islamic denominations as tools to manipulate and recruit allies where followers of the same teachings are more dominant.

And the result, particularly in Malaysia, has been more than destructive as we play a dangerous game of declaring Shiites as infidels of Islam.

Putrajaya has not only declared the Sunni denomination as the only one it recognises, but strictly the Shafi’e school of jurisprudence. It is as if we, too, have our own exclusive Malaysian brand of Islam: the School of Jakimi, if you will.

This is, of course, despite Malaysia being a refuge for Arab Shiites, and even Iranian students. Putrajaya’s solution so far has been to just close their eyes when it comes to foreign Shiites.

But what about local Shiites? They are regularly harassed and demonised, their mosques raided during Friday prayers. The Shiah label is used wantonly in character assassinations — be it famous politicians, writers, or activists.

Of course, this has been so since before Islamic State (IS). One would have thought that the rise of Sunni jihadists, who actively seek ethnic cleansing of other infidels, including Shiites, would turn Malaysia away from this anti-Shiah propaganda.

Wishful thinking, of course. At the international “Deradicalisation and Countering Violent Extremism” conference last week, federal Islamic authority Jakim placed Shiah teachings as among the sources of extremism and militancy.

Not only that, it also blames liberalism, pluralism, and LGBTism as having the potential to turn Malaysians to extremism. Have our authorities no grip on reality?

A certain cleric seen by many to be “progressive” has also stepped up his attack on Shiites after his return to a position of power.

Putrajaya’s anti-Shiah bashing has had the opposite effect. Instead of keeping extremists at bay, it may have encouraged it.

Last week, Bukit Aman Counter Terrorism Division’s Ayub Khan Mydin Pitchay revealed that IS supporters have painted the police and the government as pro-Shiah, in order to make the authorities a killing target.

As they are “Shiah supporters”, that legitimises the spilling of their blood by the jihadists, Ayub Khan said.

In this fight against IS and other jihadists, Malaysia is continually shooting ourselves in our own foot. Decades of demonising Shiites has come home to roost, and we have helped violent extremists to their benefit, more than others.

Iran is reaching out. The world is opening up, and there is no room for discrimination. The Sunni-Shiah schism has even resulted in more killings. There will come a time when we need to jettison this anti-Shiah stance, and soon.

*This is the personal opinion of the columnist.