http://thepoc.net/index.php/more-politics-and-less-legislative-agenda-in-the-mamasapano-probe-reopening/
202
20
The election season surely manifested at the Mamasapano probe reopening. Nobody expected it to be a sincere effort at ferreting out the truth and giving justice to those who have perished. It was mostly about politicians shielding themselves from incrimination or using the opportunity to become attractive to voters. It was also about political lackeys who continue zealously defending their patrons or higher-ups, or advancing the agenda of their political allies who are likely going to give them great rewards should they succeed in the upcoming elections.

The following are some of the highlights of the politicking and the little legislation-related achievements before, during, and after the Mamasapano probe reopening.

Aquino’s allies eager as ever

Enrile seemingly lorded the of the Mamasapano probe last January 27 but Aquino’s allies surely did not fail to make their presence felt. Senate President Drilon, as usual, asked questions that did not really intend to elicit an answer but to simply highlight and emphasize that Aquino supposedly did not commit anything wrong. Just like in the previous hearings, he made it a point to “clarify” things for the record. At one point, he quickly refuted Enrile’s attacks against Aquino by asking to be acknowledged and emphasizing that “just for the record, there’s nothing in the testimonies so far that the President made pakialam.”

Earlier, he declared that he would not participate in the reopening of the probe, but he chose to appear at the probe obviously to do whatever he could for President Aquino. He and Senator-VP candidate Chiz Escudero clashed over the playing of an audio recording of the alleged attempt to whitewash the Mamasapano massacre. He argued that doing so would be illegal because of the Anti-Wiretapping Law in the same way he tried to protect his then ally former president Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, but Escudero asserted the need for transparency.

Senator Trillanes also played his role as Aquino’s defender by putting all the blame on Napeñas. Just like what he did a year ago, he defended the AFP and agreed to what the AFP presented on the January 27 probe. “He blamed everyone, except himself,” Trillanes re-echoed one line presented by the AFP during the Senate hearing. He also said that it may clear Aquino’s name if the information gathered during the closed-door meetings on the Mamasapano hearings last year are made public.

Bongbong Marcos: Aquino gave stand down order

A day after the Senate probe, Senator Bongbong Marcos expressed his belief that President Aquino really gave a stand down order even as AFP officials firmly denied that there was a stand down order. For Marcos, it was clear based on the testimonies of the SAF troopers that there was an order to cease fire. That order accordingly made them vulnerable to enemy forces in the area. He linked the order to stop firing with the peace process and reiterated the loopholes and inconsistencies in Aquino’s public pronouncements regarding the incident.

Duterte in the know

Even controversial presidential candidate Rodrigo Duterte tried to ride on the Mamasapano probe reopening bandwagon. Duterte says he knows something about Aquino’s real involvement in the carnage as he claims that he was with Aquino on that fateful day. He was allegedly with President Aquino in Zamboanga on the very day of the Mamasapano massacre because he was invited by then DILG Secretary Mar Roxas. However, just like how Duterte usually does it, he fell short of offering anything sensible and useful. He says that everything he knew on that day was confidential and that he would only say what he knows in detail under oath or if he is invited to the Senate hearings. Also, in an attempt to threaten the administration, particularly Mar Roxas, he warns that he would tell the truth “if the lies continue.”

Now, three days after the Mamasapano probe reopening insisted by Enrile, Duterte still has not spoken up. Does that mean nobody lied during that hearing? Duterte was not officially invited but urged to voluntarily attend that hearing but he did not show up.

Politics in and between the police and military

In terms of coordination between the military and police forces, it’s important to set laws or revise already existing ones to establish clear roles and expectations. It’s pathetic how the AFP resorted to using petty details to assail Napeñas’ credibility by even noticing the color of the civilian car used and the supposed smiling of Napeñas. Have they forgotten that their commander-in-chief was caught in several clear photos clearly smiling at the aftermath of the disastrous Luneta hostage incident? Will they boldly say that their president was also detached from reality back then? The bickering even just between some personalities within these important institutions is already intolerable. Should the “time on target” strategy be outlawed or should we just trust the competence and commitment of the military to do what is right?

There is no intention here to justify everything Napeñas did but it’s difficult to ignore the way the country’s military force is acting. Is this the kind of AFP that is supposed to defend the Philippines in case China really attacks our people at Pag-asa Island or if the Chinese already start reclaiming the waters around the Philippine-controlled islands to deny viable ways for entry or exit? Will they also refuse to take action because the President tells them not to do anything since there is an ITLOS case and “back channel negotiations “being pursued?

Perhaps it’s about time to stop relying on the traditions of the police or military. Maybe laws should be created to clarify or correct actions that are based on internal cultures and traditions. Maybe a law should also establish clear liabilities for a commander-in-chief when it comes to police or military operations, to make sure that he or she does his job competently. Moreover, perhaps the OPAPP and all of the agreements it enters into should be compulsorily publicized (not just published on their website) so everybody can see whatever it is they are doing because their actions affect not just they way they deal with the rebel forces but also the way the Philippine military and police are operating.

Legislative goals

Despite being mostly about politicking, lying, and ego-fending, there are still positive things that can be derived from the reopening of the Mamasapano probe. As some senators pointed out, legislation can be passed to clearly establish chains of command in the country’s military and police forces in relation to the president or other higher ranking authorities. To avoid similar incidents, laws can be passed to clearly criminalize the involvement of parties who should not be involved in police and military operations. These laws should provide officers enough persuasion to refuse to follow an order even when it comes from the president.

Moreover, the ceasefire protocols and other systems put in place under the direction of the country’s peace negotiators should be revisited to make sure that they don’t operate one-sidedly, at the expense of the government. As previous hearings already revealed, the MILF apparently always have the larger slice of the cake when it comes to negotiations. They successfully renegotiated some of the ceasefire protocols with the Philippine government to work to their favor. For instance, the non-need for coordination when undertaking high value target operations was changed as a new set of government peace panel and OPAPP officers took over. “Government peace panel chairman” Miriam Coronel Ferrer emphasized that the 24-coordination requirement is no longer applicable during hot pursuit operations but it is not completely removed. Instead, it only means that the coordination may only be “done in less than 24 hours.” What a way to spin an already clear guideline!

Even if justice continues to elude the families of the SAF44, hopefully the lessons have been clear enough. The hearings should result in actual pieces of legislation that will establish clear responsibilities and liabilities in the police and military organizations when it comes to critical operations that endanger lives. Likewise, the Mamasapano massacre and the many issues that emerged from it should be an awakening for the public to make sure that they only elect competent leaders in government who care about the people.