http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3435625/Trump-threatens-terrorists-hell-lot-worse-waterboarding-s-president-Republican-debate-torture.html
201
20
Donald Trump dove headfirst into the choppy waters of torture politics during Saturday night's Republican debate in New Hampshire, and doubled down Sunday morning on his call to return waterboarding to the stable of acceptable interrogation techniques.

Trump told CNN's Jake Tapper on 'State of the Union' that he wants to see the practice, which U.S. law considers torture and a war crime, reconsidered.

'I'd go through a process and get it declassified [as torture], frankly ... certainly waterboarding at a minimum,' the Republican presidential front-runner said.

'They're chopping off heads of Christians and many other people in the Middle East. They're chopping heads off, they laugh at us when they hear that we're not going to approve waterboarding and then they'll have a James Foley, and others, where they cut off their heads.'

Scroll down for video

Double down: Donald Trump told CNN's Jake Tapper on Sunday that he's convinced waterboarding is a necessary part of America's anti-terror arsenal

Heck YES: Trump said on debate night that he'd bring back waterboarding and 'a hell of a lot worse' if he becomes the country's commander-in-chief

Foley was an American journalist who was abducted in 2012 and murdered by decapitation in a gruesome video distributed by the ISIS terror army in August 2014.

Trump insisted that enhanced interrogation techniques – what detractors see as torture – ahsve their place if useful information can be extracted that ultimately saves lives.

'You can say what you want,' he said on Sunday. 'I have no doubt that it does work in term of information and other things.'

'And maybe not always, not nothing works always. But I have no doubt that it works.'

'But more importantly, when they're chopping off the heads of people, and innocent people in most cases, "beyond waterboarding " is fine with me.'

He framed his position in similar terms during Saturday night's ABC News debate, saying: 'I would bring back waterboarding. And I would bring back a hell of a lot worse than waterboarding.'

None of the other candidates on stage was willing to walk that plank with Trump.

Ted Cruz suggesting waterboarding should be used sparingly, Jeb Bush said it shouldn't be brought back at all, and Marco Rubio pivoted, complaining about President Barack Obama's move to close the military detention camp at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

While Donald Trump (left) said he supported bringing back waterboarding, Ted Cruz (right) gave a more nuanced response explaining why it wasn't 'torture,' but saying he wouldn't bring it back wholesale

When Trump was asked about waterboarding he immediately contrasted it with the brutal tactics groups like ISIS are employing in the Middle East.

'In the Middle East we have people chopping the heads off Christians, we have people chopping the heads off many other people, we have things that we have never seen before,' Trump began.

'We studied Medieval times, not since medieval times have people seen what's going on,' Trump said.

Cruz got wonkish with his answer and provided the debate audience with the night's most awkward pause.

Cruz explained that waterboarding didn't meet the definition of torture because prisoners were not in 'excruciating pain, which is equivalent to losing organs and systems.'

'So under the definition of torture it is not, it is enhanced interrogation, it is vigorous interrogation, but it does not meet the generally recognized definition of torture,' he said.

'I would not bring it back in any widespread use and indeed,' Cruz said and then stopped.

'I joined with Sen. McCain in legislation that would prohibit line officers from employing it, bad things happen when enhanced interrogation is employed at lower levels,' he finished.

Jeb Bush (left) and Marco Rubio (right) used the discussion of waterboarding to bring up President Obama's plan to close Guantanamo Bay, which they both said was a bad idea

He did say he would keep the tactic in his pocket as commander-in-chief if the country were facing an imminent terrorist attack.

When it was Bush's turn to chime in he assured the audience that waterboarding was used 'sparingly,' under his brother, President George W. Bush's, administration.

Bush said the real answer to combating terrorism would be to expand the nation's intelligence capabilities.

'This is why closing Guantanamo is a complete disaster,' Bush stated.

Rubio grabbed on to Bush's statement and didn't answer definitively the question about waterboarding.

'Here's the bigger problem with all of this, we're not interrogating anyone right now. Guantanamo is being emptied by this president, we should be putting people into Guantanamo, not emptying it out,' Rubio said.