http://www.dallasnews.com/news/nationworld/mexico/20160206-border-visit-will-cap-pope-francis-trip-to-mexico.ece
202
20
CIUDAD JUÁREZ, Mexico — Pope Francis brings his message of Christian hope and charity this week to Mexico, a country mired in crime and corruption, and to this border city once known as the world’s murder capital, where many residents are seeking renewal.

The trip will include the pope’s first visit to the U.S.-Mexico border. It comes amid a divisive debate over illegal immigration, with the rhetoric of U.S. presidential candidates focusing on building walls, separating communities and expelling unauthorized immigrants.

Bishop Mark J. Seitz of the Diocese of El Paso said he expects the pope to bring a different message.

pope.YT.visit

“I think the pope’s message will be to teach the church’s approach to the reality of migrants in the world and how they need to be treated with respect,” said Seitz, a former auxiliary bishop of Dallas and a graduate of the University of Dallas.

“The fact that they leave their homeland doesn’t mean they leave behind their human dignity and their human rights. I expect him to call us to our responsibility to respond to migrants with compassion.”

Francis has said he will serve as a messenger of peace during his six-day visit beginning Friday, adding that he doesn’t expect to offer solutions, just his faith.

The pope will pray alongside Mexicans, asking that the problems of “violence, corruption and everything going on in the country are resolved, because the Mexico of violence, corruption, drug trafficking and drug cartels is not the Mexico our mother wants,” he said in a video message last week.

U.S. and Mexican authorities will be watching closely, at times nervously, experts say. Francis will visit five cities throughout Mexico, each one representing an open wound from years of violence, poverty, human rights violations and impunity. More recently, President Enrique Peña Nieto’s term has been rocked by corruption scandals and the unsolved disappearance of 43 students from Ayotzinapa school in Guerrero state in September 2014.

“Pope Francis couldn’t come at a more crucial time for Mexico,” said Salvador Rangel, bishop of Chilpancingo-Chilapa, Guerrero. “The country needs an advocate for justice.”

Perhaps the most poignant moment of Francis’ daylong visit to the border Feb. 17 will be a walk to the muddy Rio Grande, where he’s expected to say a prayer for migrants, a modest but powerful gesture for a world grappling with refugees, be they Syrians in Europe or Central Americans fleeing through Mexico.

photos.pope.visit

Francis’ visit comes as the administration of President Barack Obama faces increasing criticism from his own party and the Hispanic community over renewed raids on families in the U.S. illegally. This administration has deported more unauthorized immigrants than any other, and it’s happening as illegal migration from Mexico falls.

“I was deported,” said Filiberto Longoria, 26, a former dishwasher from New York City now working as an Uber driver in Mexico City, “and I have no plans to go back to a place where I’m not welcome.”

Juárez, after years of vicious violence, is standing again, though wobbly, with weak rule of law. The city is spending millions on security for the pope’s visit and is urging residents to go out and see him. An estimated 450,000 are expected to line the streets or attend the Mass, which will be celebrated just feet from the international boundary.

El Paso, which calls itself the safest city of its size in the nation and is home to one of the largest military bases anywhere, is essentially in lockdown mode, urging people to stay away from the border area adjacent to where the Mass will be celebrated and paying an estimated $1 million for enhanced security. Schools, universities and key streets along the border are to be closed — a controversial decision that will be debated further this week.

The Catholic diocese is preparing to show a live stream of the Mass at the University of Texas at El Paso’s Sun Bowl, capacity 50,000. It’s expected that Francis will address the crowd gathered there during the Mass in Juárez.

Among the tens of thousands of visitors will be Juan Pérez, 41, and his wife Gloria, 43, who will travel from their home in Keller. They have no tickets, but that won’t stop them from driving the 600 miles just to be in the pope’s presence.

“Even if we just see him for a second, that’ll be a blessing from God,” Pérez said.

For the Argentinian-born pope, the border represents the ideal laboratory for issues near to his papacy: poverty, inequality, corruption, drug violence and and what he calls the dangers of capitalism.

This is where worlds collide, and where the lives of people like Jaime Montellano, 44, hang in the balance. Montellano is a construction worker who, along with hundreds of colleagues, has been working furiously around the clock, seven days a week, to finish the stage for the pope to deliver his message. His payoff? A ticket to the Mass.

“I’m drowning in sweat,” said Montellano, who has a wife and two children. “I make in one day what people over there [El Paso] make in an hour. I hope the pope talks about wages. That, and peace.”

Juárez has one of the largest concentrations of manufacturing along the U.S.-Mexico border, with some 250,000 people assembling everything from smartphones, laptops and big-screen TVs to auto parts at an estimated 330 maquiladoras, as the mostly foreign-owned factories are known. In recent weeks, hundreds of workers have set up encampments to demand recognition of independent unions and better wages.

“We hope the Holy Father leaves us with a message of respect,” said Silvia Ramírez, 37, a factory worker who makes less than $6 a day. Her wages lose value almost daily because of a weakening peso, and she barely makes ends meet, along with her husband’s salary, in providing for their two children, including Neida, 10.

Their neighborhood was one of those transformed by the violence of warring drug cartels.

Ramírez talked under a white tent with the words Amor Por Juárez set up for visitors to write messages and prayers for the pope. She watched quietly as Neida took her time penning a message of welcome to Francis and asking him to pray for “peace in Juárez,” one of thousands of such requests, volunteers said. The two took a picture with a cutout figure of the pope before walking away.

While violence has dropped in Juárez, across the country homicide rates increased again in 2015 by 7.6 percent, reversing what had been a downward trend. Even so, the wounds won’t heal anytime soon.

Lupita Davila, the mother of one of the thousands of victims of the violence, last week commemorated the sixth anniversary of one of the many massacres in Ciudad Juárez.

“Hurt, pain,” she said simply, “yesterday, tomorrow and forever.”

Seitz, the former Dallas bishop, said that Francis will find a “region in search of healing, wanting to put a tragic past behind us. He will deliver a message that there is still hope, still room for a new beginning.”

Alfredo Corchado, longtime Mexico Bureau chief for The Dallas Morning News, is co-director of the borderlands program at the Walter Cronkite School of Journalism at Arizona State University. Al Dia writer Jorge Chávez contributed to this report.