http://www.morningledger.com/donald-trump-obama-crying-gun-speech-sincere-disagree-plan/1354906/
202
20
On Tuesday morning, President Barack Obama announced new gun control laws that he hopes will save lives in the future. Getting emotional, Obama was brought to tears as he made the announcement.

2016 presidential candidate, Donald Trump, has since shared his thoughts on Obama’s speech, saying that while he believes Obama’s intentions are sincere, he still doesn’t agree with his plan.

In Obama’s speech, he announced new executive actions that would be taken to raise gun safety issues, which narrowing the so-called “gun-show loophole” that currently exists regarding background checks.

As he spoke, Obama was moved to tears, listing off some of the tragic incidents in recent years where children were massacred by gunmen. Barack Obama shared his motivation for changing gun control laws, citing the Columbine High School massacre in 1999, and the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting in 2012 that left 20 children dead.

Donald Trump responds to Obama crying during his speech, saying that he does believe the president’s tears were sincere. “I actually think he was sincere, I’ll probably go down about 5 points in the polls by saying that, but I think he was sincere,” Trump said.

However, though he might not be questioning the sincerity of Obama crying, Trump still doesn’t agree with the president’s actions.

Trump stated that he believes Obama’s “idea is just taking chunks and chunks out of the Second Amendment until we don’t have a Second Amendment anymore, and people need protection. Hillary Clinton is, I think, worse than Obama on the issue, frankly, she wants to take everyone’s gun away.”

The presidential candidate continues to take the position that the answer to these tragic mass shooting incidents is to give more people guns, not to take them away from the people who already have them.

Donald Trump went on to argue against the new gun legislature that Obama is presenting later in the day, stating that “We have to protect the Second Amendment. We have no choice. We have to do that.”

READ ALSO: Mark Zuckerberg Slams Donald Trump: ‘Muslims Are Welcome At Facebook’

For comments and suggestions, leave a message in the comments section below. Like and Follow our Facebook page for more stories and to stay up-to-date with the latest happenings.

For comments and suggestions, leave a message in the comments section below. Like and Follow our Facebook page for more stories and to stay up-to-date with the latest happenings.