http://www.uktamilnews.com/?p=19020
203
20
One year after the change of government in ‘Sri Lanka’ the security forces continue to detain, torture and sexually violate Tamils in a net work of sites across the island, and one of the purposes is to maintain control over the Tamils through an atmosphere of oppression and tyranny and deter them from testifying against the government in upcoming justice initiatives, said a January 2016 International Truth & Justice Project, Sri Lanka Report, citing available recording of the violations that took place in 2015. “It is hard to see how a war survivor could safely testify to a Truth Commission in this atmosphere of on- going repression and intolerance,” the ITJP press release from Johannesburg in South Africa said on Thursday, citing Yasmin Sooka, who is the executive director of the ITJP.

“In the current climate of impunity in which torture, sexual violence, intimidation and persecution are ongoing in the former conflict areas, it is unlikely that Tamil victims of torture and sexual violence at the hands of state forces will be able to participate [the domestic investigation unanimously resolved by the UNHRC at Geneva in 2015], the ITJP report said.

According to ITJP, several Tamil politicians, ICRC, and diplomats in Sri Lanka are aware of the on-going violations.

Anyone who reads the report could explicitly see how justice is not possible to Tamils under ‘Sri Lanka’.

But instead of telling the truth to the international community to its face, that justice could come only by acknowledging the issue as genocide and national question, the ITJP was meekly suggesting “security sector reform, law reform and the establishment of an effective witness protection programme…in accordance with the 2015 Geneva resolution.”

Even the TNA is not spared: “My interrogators knew about my TNA activities and asked me about them. They asked ‘are you still supporting the idea of a separate homeland for Tamils?’ They said I am acting against the government by supporting the TNA,” the report cited a witness. Denial of homeland is genocide but there are international engineers actively working exactly on the project of theoretical negation of Tamil homeland and demographic engineering for geopolitical and corporate economic purposes.

The graphic recording by the ITJP shows how deep-rooted the genocidal tendency is. Tamils know the decades-long continuity of it. The report mildly termed it as “Racism” or “post-war ethnic cleansing”, making Tamils to flee the country.

The report was warning Tamils against returning home if they have any connections with the struggle.

Tamils abroad cannot openly give an interview to a Tamil TV station in London or Chennai, or elsewhere without risking the lives of their parents in Sri Lanka, the report said.

It warned them against speaking to media.

Giving media interviews abroad about the 2009 war or post-war detention and abuse can lead to immediate and violent reprisals against family members still in Sri Lanka, the report said.

The report also warned diaspora Tamils against participating in remembrance events.

“Be aware that the Sri Lankan intelligence services are still monitoring diaspora events at home and abroad such as Heroes’ Day and Mullivaikkal Remembrance Day events, taking photographs and then showing them to detainees. This indicates that attending these events is a risk if you are intending to return home or have family living there,” the report said.

Reading the report, it is difficult to say whether it blasts the paradigm set at Geneva or serves the agenda of subtly intimidating Tamils against even any democratic struggle.

The Truth and Justice project could have been served in a more enhanced way without any ambiguity, if the truth of the ultimate perpetrators who have set the whole agenda and groom the very military cited in the report, had also been investigated and exposed.