http://www.eveningtimes.co.uk/news/14237970.display/
203
20
SCHOOL pupils from across Glasgow relived the horrors of the holocaust and genocides as they were urged to do their bit to stamp out bigotry.

Hundreds of primary and secondary school children packed into the City Chambers yesterday on Holocaust memorial day for a service which carried the poignant message "don't stand by".

And they shouted "we won't be silent" at the request of international aid diplomat Mukesh Kapila who told them: "Genocides happen when people ignore their inner voice telling them the difference between right and wrong.

"Always listen to that voice."

Mr Kapila, a doctor who experienced first hand the humanitarian crises and ethnic cleansing in Iraq, Rwanda, Srebrenica, Afghanistan and Sierra Leone, told a harrowing story which stunned the room into silence.

He recalled the story of an 11-year old child caught up in the Rwandan genocide which saw one million people slaughtered.

The girl, called Grace, was fleeing the conflict on foot when she discovered a 6-month old baby by a roadside, clinging onto the body of its dying mother.

The child picked up the baby and carried him with her, despite the objection of the group she was travelling with who were worried they would not be able to care for the infant.

Mr Kapila said: "Even as a child, Grace knew this was the right thing to do.

"We are all essentially good people but we get easily distracted by those who have evil minds."

Holocaust survivor Inge Auerbacher spoke about her childhood in an Nazi death camp.

Ms Auerbacher – the only child of Regina and Berthold Auerbacher, and born in 1934, a year after the Nazis came to power.

In 1942 Inge and her parents were arrested and sent to the Theresienstadt ghetto in Czechoslovakia.

Of the 15,000 children who were imprisoned, only 100 survived and Inge is one of them.

She told the service: "The Holocaust might seem like years and years ago to you all - like ancient history.

"But if Hitler had succeeded most of you would not be here."

Senior pupils from John Paul Academy hosted the event.

Pupils from St Thomas’ Primary School, Knightswood Secondary, St Roch’s Secondary, Bankhead Primary and East40 choir also took part using drama, singing and poetry throughout the morning to reflect on the Holocaust and recent conflicts.

Georgie Murphy, 17, and Catriona Donald, 17, sixth year pupils at St Rochs in the east end, spoke of a recent trip to Auschwitz concentration camp.

Catriona said afterwards: "The trip was life changing for me and definitely gave me a clearer insight into what happened.

"I would people to take up the opportunity to visit if they can."

Georgie added: "It is important to understand the true horror of what happened to help ensure that something like this does not happen again."

Ms Auerbacher, who now lives in New York, said she was "moved to tears" by the performances and speeches.

This praise was echoed by Bailie Liz Cameron.

She said: "I am very proud to here.

"I thought that when I was became executive member for education and life long learning that was the proudest moment of my life.

"But that pride has been over taken by the pride I feel in the schools and young people of Glasgow before me."

Ms Cameron added that those who have been studying the Holocaust and genocides around the world must "pass the baton of learning" to others.

She said: "I know that they will take the message forward - "don't stand by".