http://www.dailyo.in/politics/general-raheel-sharif-pakistan-army-nawaz-sharif-imran-khan-ppp-pti-peshawar-attack/story/1/8692.html
203
20
The Pakistan army chief of staff’s resolve to retire on time merits little or no discussion in established democracies around the world. Be it Westminster-style or Indian democracy.

In fact, such developments attract no banner headlines. The Pakistani context, although, is a bit different. A bit complex.

With November 2016 set as retirement date for his three-year stint in office, Sharif’s announcement not to seek extension may have different connotations and interpretations in this part of the world. Like retirements, appointment to the top army four-star position in civilian eras attract the media attention galore.

The uneasy history of civil-military relations, military coups of the past, make the latest announcement by Sharif not to seek extension in service is major news by Pakistani standards. It has always been a sensitive issue in the past, with many strings attached. In this context, civilian government of the day still cautiously observe every move of the garrison, as was seen recently.

A bit of over exposure for the general in the mainstream media and the unnecessary glorification on social media was enough to send alarm bells ringing across power corridors. Sceptics believed an extension was being sought for Shareef through an unseen but systematic campaign.

Overzealous supporters wanted an extension of term without delay. Seeing an unnecessary controversy in sight, the man himself cleared the air. Even then some analysts are still in disbelief, urging the government to convince the general not to retire on the said date; continue for some more months, may be another full term.

But as soon as the announcement was made on January 26 through the official spokesman of the military, it was a “breaking news” then and there.

Unprecedented, as none of the past military chiefs, especially the ones who served during the civil eras, made such prior announcements. The last army chief general Ashfaq Kiyani had instead secured a three-year extension for himself. It was a quid pro quo of sorts. Facing allegations of corruption and misrule, and at the brink of economic meltdown, the last PPP regime felt relieved to dole out a favour to the then military chief. In return, it secured a complete five-year term in office.

But that extension didn’t go down well for the very repute of general Kiyani, despite the hallmark Swat valley and South Waziristan operations to his credit. Even after two years of his retirement, allegations of nepotism haunt the former army chief as his brother is being investigated by country’s accountability watchdog in a multibillion housing scam.

Keeping in view unceremonious ousters of elected governments in the late 1980s and 1990s with tacit approval of successive military regimes, the present day government in Pakistan tends to act overcautiously. The five-month long sit-in by Imran Khan-led PTI in the heart of the Pakistani capital in 2014 was seen in the same context. Khan and religious cleric Dr Tahirul Qadri wanted to overthrow prime minister Nawaz Sharif by crippling the government and had attacked Parliament and prime minister’s house.

Some top military men, having retired in October that year, were said to be sympathetic towards principle demand of the agitators that prime minister Sharif should step down, to pave way for judicial inquiry into the 2013 elections rigging allegations.

Sharif didn’t side with agitators, or conspirators. The agitation finally subsided and had to be called off after the Army Public School, Peshawar massacre in which 130-plus students and teachers were gunned down in cold blood.

The attack changed the whole dynamics of the country’s approach towards tackling and eliminating extremism and militancy. A large-scale military operation against Pakistani Taliban, launched in June that year, was already in full-swing.

The situation gave birth to the 20-point National Action Plan, devised by all political forces with the military establishment’s input. Military courts were set up, sectarian extremist outfits and their affiliates were banned, and thousands were rounded up. Scores were sent to gallows. Since then, much has been done and a lot is underway.

As a by product, critics says, the military establishment secured more influence, overall. In actual terms, however, it had more to do with inaction and lethargic attitude of the political elite, than alleged covert plans of the military establishment to dominate the national scene.

Taking over command of Pakistani military at the end of year 2013 was more challenging as compared to yesteryears. It was exactly the time when terrorism was striking and every nook and corner of Pakistan was termed as an "existential threat" to the country. Unlike his predecessors, the incumbent chief treaded a different approach.

A professional soldier to the core, he did not like to indulge in past practice to exploit situations for personal goals. To his credit, he hails from a decorated military family having secured two top military medals in the past – one by his martyred elder brother, the other by his uncle.

Preserving his military family honour and reputation has always been top priority on his agenda. The incumbent seems focused in transforming the Army and ISI into a more disciplined, apolitical force to improve professional image of the institution. Crux of the effort has been to disengage from unnecessary civil-military confrontation controversies, and focus on real threats facing the country. Hence the latest announcement, at least 10 months prior to the retirement date.

Official narrative suggests it was done to put to rest unnecessary speculation. As some fear it weakensresolve of the top general in weeks and months ahead, others predict more bravado fight against terrorist elements, focused large scale law and order operations.

And to top it all, targeted operations against abettors and financiers of terrorism – an area that recently hit snags due to false flags of political victimisation raised by PPP’s government in Sindh province. Some of its former ministers and blue-eyed bureaucrats were rounded up on serious charges of corruption linked to terror financing.

Restoring normalcy to chaos hit Karachi – country’s only megapolis, sea port and financial hub – through a resolute paramilitary operation was the most daunting task after elections in mid-2013. Effort of the last two-and-a-half years suggest a marked decline in sectarian killings and kidnappings for ransom.

Premier Sharif picked the incumbent general from amongst the top hopefuls in November 2013, applying seniority cum professional standing crietaria. In doing so, recommendations of the then army chief general Ashfaq Kiyani were ignored. Both the Sharifs, civilian and military, had daunting challenges of their own to meet in days and months ahead.

A dwindling economy, law and order blues in country’s financial capital Karachi, terror attacks across the country due to Pakistani Taliban led insurgency in tribal areas, and worst law and order situation in some parts of Balochistan, were some challenging tasks. Till date, almost half way into the task, Premier Sharif carries a mix baggage of successes and failures.

For general Sharif, the challenges were more hands-on and challenging in nature.

Streamlining military affairs, coupled with need to boost morale of the army was equally daunting. Now, he has a new crop of qualified, like-minded generals at his disposal.

It was in June 2014, exactly seven months into his new shoes, when the top Army general launched a surprise military operation in North Waziristan, putting to end efforts to engage Pakistani Taliban umbrella group in talks. The operation is at its final stage, these days.

His score card seems more convincing in terms of delivering results. With 90 per cent of the tribal areas, including North Waziristan, now cleared of insurgents, the task at hand is to establish permanent peace. The task is daunting as it is directly linked to peace in neighbouring Afghanistan.

Balochistan is settling through targeted military ops and background negotiations with some insurgent groups; normalcy in Karachi is a marked success. The biggest challenge at hand for the general before calling it a day, is to achieve his declared goal to make 2016 the final year to root out terrorism.