http://www.sfgate.com/world/article/News-of-the-day-from-across-the-globe-April-9-7237736.php
202
20
News of the day from across the globe, April 9

1 Drone strike: A senior Egyptian al Qaeda figure fighting in Syria was killed in a U.S. drone strike this week, the latest to be killed in such attacks in Syria, a Syrian opposition monitoring group and relatives said Friday. The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said Rifai Ahmad Taha was killed in a strike Tuesday in the northwestern Idlib province. Before joining al Qaeda, Taha was a top figure in Egypt’s notorious militant group Gamaa Islamiya, which massacred 58 foreign tourists in the ancient Egyptian city of Luxor in 1997. He was also allied with Osama bin Laden in Afghanistan.

2 Rocket test: North Korea said Saturday it has successfully tested a new intercontinental ballistic rocket engine that will give it the ability to stage nuclear strikes on the United States. The engine’s ground test, if true, would be a big step forward for the North’s nuclear weapons program, which saw its fourth atomic test earlier this year. But the North may still need a good deal of work before it can hit the U.S. mainland with nuclear missiles. South Korean officials say North Korea doesn’t yet have a reliable intercontinental ballistic missile, let alone the ability to arm it with a nuclear warhead.

3 Separatist conflict: Skirmishes continued Friday around Nagorno-Karabakh with Azerbaijan and Armenia blaming each other for cease-fire violations, while Russia sought to stabilize the situation by playing as go-between. Azerbaijan’s Defense Ministry said Friday its troops returned fire after Armenian forces shelled Azerbaijani military positions and populated areas. The Armenian side accused Azerbaijan of shelling its positions, killing two Armenian soldiers overnight. The gunbattles threaten to derail the Russia-brokered truce declared at midday Tuesday following several days of intense battles which marked the worst violence since a separatist war ended in 1994. The war left Nagorno-Karabakh, officially a part of Azerbaijan, under the control of local ethnic Armenian forces and the Armenian military. Armenian forces also occupy several areas outside the Karabakh region.

4 Record tourism: The overall number of tourists visiting France in 2015 rose marginally compared with the year before to reach an all-time high despite the two deadly attacks in Paris in January and November. Government figures released Friday show that 84.5 million tourists visited continental France, an increase of 0.9 percent from 2014. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs said the latest figure “was an absolute record.” French authorities note that the country remains the world’s leading tourist destination, with hotel stays going up 0.8 percent across France in 2015. The largest increase was among tourists coming from Asia, whose numbers grew by 22.7 percent, with Chinese visitors surpassing 2 million. The number of American tourists also increased considerably, by 15.2 percent to 3.6 million in 2015.

5 Castro appearance: Fidel Castro made a rare public appearance in Havana, speaking to schoolchildren about his brother’s late wife and revolutionary figure Vilma Espin. The 89-year-old former president regularly writes reflections in the state media and meets with dignitaries but seldom appears in public. His last appearance at a public event was in July 2015. Castro stepped aside in 2006 after suffering a serious illness and officially retired two years later, but his presence still casts a long shadow on Cuban government and society.

Chronicle News Services