https://whatdidyousay.org/tag/special-interest-aliens/
202
20
URL of the original posting site: http://constitution.com/hundreds-islamic-terrorists-mess-texas-illegally-enter-via-mexican-border

“Recent reports state that the U.S. Customs and Border Protection has apprehended several members of known Islamist terrorist organizations crossing the southern border in recent years.” — Congressman Ron DeSantis (FL) – R in a March 23rd, 2016 House Oversight Committee, National Security Subcommittee hearing.

According to The Houston Chronicle, the Texas Department of Public Safety stated it has shifted law enforcement resources to better protect the border, but this shift enabled crime to increase in other parts of the state. The Washington Post published a story shortly thereafter, stating that authorities had detained several people with ties to Islamist terrorist organizations. (Apparently, information was obtained from a report leaked to the Chronicle about which the public was not supposed to learn.)

The report lists 439 cases of “special interest aliens” who illegally crossed or attempted to cross the Mexican/US border into Texas and are associated with Islamic terrorist groups. They came from 35 Middle Eastern, African, and Asian countries, including Afghanistan, Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, Libya, Pakistan, and Syria. They each were associated with Islamic terrorist groups.

According to the leaked report, authorities listed 143 “land border crossing encounters with watch-listed individuals in southwest border states between November 2013 and July 2014.”

One encounter, for example, was with an alleged member of al-Shabaab, the Islamic Somalia-based group responsible for the 2013 mall massacre in Nairobi, Kenya. Another related to the apprehension of another Somali named Ahmed Muhammed Dhakane, who was tied to terrorist groups al-Shabaab, al-Itihaad al-Islamiya, and al-Barakat. Dhakane not only crossed into Texas, but also helped move an unknown number of suspected Somali terrorists. Still another, was with three Sri Lankans, one of whom claimed that he was a member of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam “on his way to Canada.”

This report is only one of several.

To a name a few:

A 2006 report compiled by the House Committee on Homeland Security’s Subcommittee on Investigations highlighted crime and violence along the Texas/Mexico border. It states that “each year, hundreds of illegal aliens from countries known to harbor terrorists or promote terrorism” are found crossing or attempting to cross the border along the Rio Grande Valley. In fact, members of Hezbollah “have already entered the United States” crossing this border prior to 2005.

An updated 2012 report from the same committee indicated that 1,918 “special interest aliens” were apprehended at the border between 2006 and 2011.

And a 2009 Government Accountability Office report revealed that Border Patrol apprehended three people with “links to terrorism” at southwest border checkpoints the previous year.

Despite this, and much more evidence, Obama has consistently claimed the border is more secure because of him. In 2014, he said, “Overall, the number of people trying to cross our border illegally is the lowest it has been since the 1970s.”

Politifact found Obama’s claim to be “half-true” because the 1970 border and the 2014 border are incomparable. The economic and security conditions were entirely different in 1970 than 2014. And, it states that “it’s problematic for Obama to assume credit for the low numbers, as the trend started before he took office.”

But that has been his modus operandi since he took the White House– to take credit for successes for which he has little-to-no involvement and to blame others for consequences he created. Yet, the low numbers he cites don’t actually match with the data, or the experience of the American people, whose tax dollars continue to escalate to pay for these illegals.