http://tribune.com.pk/story/1182745/islamabad-criticises-afghan-president-doubting-pakistans-role-terror-fight/
138
13
Afghan soil is being used by ‘a neighb­our’ for subver­sive activi­ties and financ­ing in Pakist­an, says FO spokes­person­

ISLAMABAD: Pakistan has criticised recent statements by Afghan President Ashraf Ghani in which he expressed doubts about the country’s role in fight against terrorism.

In a thinly veiled jibe at Pakistan during the second and final day of his visit to India on Saturday, the Afghan President said making distinction between good and bad terrorism is a short-sighted approach.

Ghani had also called upon India to put logistics for trade and not be concerned about “one country,” saying Chabahar port will end the ‘monopoly.’

India in May this year announced that it will build and operate Chabahar port and invest $500 million to develop the strategically important port, close to Iran’s border with Pakistan.

“We have noted with disappointment the unhelpful statements made by Afghan leadership in complete disregard to the efforts that Pakistan has made and continues to make for peace and stability in Afghanistan,” the Foreign Ministry said on Friday.

Kabul’s belligerent rhetoric not in regional interest: Maleeha

“We believe it is important for both Pakistan and Afghanistan to closely work together for peace, progress and stability of our region. It requires a strong commitment for not letting our territories be used against each other. Pakistan is abiding by this solemn commitment,” spokesperson Nafees Zakaria added.

The spokesperson reminded the Afghan government that Pakistani security forces were engaged in a valiant fight against terrorism and that their efforts were making an immense contribution to securing the porous border to help bring lasting peace to Afghanistan, and the region.

“However, Pakistan remains concerned that Afghan soil is being increasingly used by ‘a neighbour’ for subversive activities inside Pakistan and terror financing,” the spokesperson lamented.

Chabahar port will help India bypass Pakistan: Afghan president

Ghani last week threatened to shut the Afghan transit route for Pakistani exports to Central Asia if Islamabad does not allow Afghan traders to use Lahore’s Wagah border for trade with India.

The Foreign Ministry highlighted that Pakistan had been extending all facilities for transit of Afghan exports and imports through Pakistan’s ports under a transit trade agreement between the two countries.

“We have also been facilitating the transit of Afghan fruits to India through Wagah,” the spokesperson maintained.

“Our efforts for peace, stability and economic progress of Afghanistan are a matter of our commitment to the brotherly people of Afghanistan, millions of whom have been hosted in Pakistan for past 37 years,” Zakaria concluded.

Read full story