http://pakobserver.net/sarore-killing-ethnic-cleansing-malik/
202
20
Srinagar—The Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front (JKLF) Chief Yasin Malik on Wednesday termed as a “shameful act of ethnic cleansing” the killing of a Gujjar protester and bulldozing of residential houses in Sarore area of Bari Brahmana earlier this week.

He also warned of a stiff resistance if the authorities didn’t stop what he said their “anti-Muslim” conspiracies in Jammu.

“Samba killing and bulldozing residential houses is a shameful act of ethnic cleansing that is being done at the behest of communal forces like RSS,” said Malik in a statement issued here today.

“Rulers, their police and authorities have become tools of oppression against Muslims of Jammu.” Malik condemning the killing of Muhammad Yaqoob and “vandalizing of 40-year-old residences of Muslims there.”

He alleged that terrorizing Jammu Muslims started with the installation of BJP-PDP rule in Jammu Kashmir which asked Muslims living in Jammu to leave their homes on the “pretext” of occupying forest lands.

“Now the same has been started in Samba on the pretext that people living in these areas have illegally constructed their homes on these lands,” said Malik.

“Irony of the matter is that rulers, their police and authorities seem to target only Muslims in this context as if only Muslims have grabbed these lands.”

Calling it a conspiracy “hatched in Nagpur”, Malik said the aim is to “clean” Muslims from Jammu region of the state.

“Jammu Kashmir police, civil administration and its other components are implementing this RSS agenda and have started an ethnic cleansing of Jammu Muslims on the pretext of cleaning forest lands, illegal construction and so on,” alleged Malik.

He said that civil administration and police have become “tools of oppression” against Jammu Muslims. “Kashmiris will not remain silent over these conspiracies and oppression unleashed on Jammu Muslims and we warn rulers, occupational authorities, civil administration and police to refrain from these anti-Muslim and anti-Kashmiri activities and stop implementing RSS agenda immediately,” Malik warned.

He said that if these “oppressive activities” and “intimidation” of Jammu Muslims were not halted immediately, Kashmiris will have no option but to launch a stiff resistance against it.—GK

Share this: Print

Email

Tweet







