http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/watch-dramatic-moment-gun-gang-7803416
203
20
Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

The video will start in

This is the dramatic moment a gang member was arrested by an undercover cop in McDonald's after watching his two accomplices being detained at a nearby Homebase.

Richard Rye had visited the DIY store in London with Harry Shilling and Michael Defraine, who were today found guilty of smuggling one of Britain's biggest ever gun hauls.

During their trip, the trio bought spades, pick-axes and bags which they planned to use to bury their £100,000 stash of deadly weapons until they were needed, a court heard.

But after exiting the store, they were confronted by armed National Crime Agency (NCA) officers, who arrested Shilling, 25, and Defraine, 30, at the scene.

Rye, however, escaped and fled to a nearby McDonald's. Today in court, Defraine's defence team described how Rye had suffered a 'Mac attack' because he ran away to the restaurant.

Richard Rye is arrested by an undercover NCA officer in McDonald's

Rye (far right) tries to call other gang members by phone as the officer walks past (left, in a green top)

Lawyer David Taylor also told the court how Shilling had experienced a 'panic attack' outside Homebase, while his client was 'left holding the baby' - the purchased tools.

Defraine claimed that he had the tools because he had been told by Rye, 24, they were gardening equipment.

Read more: Gang accused of smuggling lethal AK-47-style assault weapons into Britain from eastern Europe

After fleeing to McDonald's, Rye was caught on CCTV trying to call other members of the gang while sitting at a table, with a large package in front of him.

But unbeknown to the gangster, an undercover NCA officer, dressed in a jacket, a green T-shirt and jeans, was walking past his table several times.

Moments later, Rye stood up and went to exit the restaurant, prompting the officer to pounce.

CENTRAL NEWS Rye's arrest was carried out last August as part of Operation Seventy

Video loading Watch next Watch this video again Watch Next Click to play Tap to play The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

Footage shows the criminal being detained by the cop, while a McDonald's employee evacuates shocked customers from the premises.

The arrest was carried out last August as part of Operation Seventy.

The CCTV video was released by the NCA today as Shilling and Defraine were convicted of smuggling 31 automatic rifles and machine pistols 'capable of unleashing carnage on a terrifying scale' on a boat into Kent.

The pair were found guilty of being knowingly concerned in the evasion of a prohibition on importation of the firearms and conspiracy to possess firearms with intent to endanger life.

Two others, Jennifer Arthy, 42, and John Smale, 58, were cleared of those two charges by the jury.

Harry Shilling and Michael Defraine are detained outside Homebase after buying spades and other tools

The gang bought the items to bury their stash of deadly weapons until they were needed, a court heard

Rye, as well as the boat's skipper David Payne, 43, and Christopher Owen, 30, earlier admitted being knowingly concerned in the evasion of a prohibition on importation of the firearms.

Rye and Payne also admitted conspiracy to possess firearms with intent to endanger life.

Read more: Plane spotters arrested on terror offences for 'taking pictures in a Nairobi airport bar' fined £3,000

Masterminded by Shilling, the gang bought the 'evil cargo' from the same Slovakian supplier as those used in the Charlie Hebdo massacre, the court heard.

After the guns were ferried across the Channel from Boulogne-sur-Mer, France, Shilling bragged 'we now officially gangsters' in a message to Defraine.

Today, the judge said he will give 'serious consideration' for a life sentence for mastermind Shilling

CENTRAL NEWS Defraine (pictured) was convicted of smuggling 31 automatic rifles and machine pistols with Shilling

Although the gang had no connection to terrorism, they trafficked the poorly-deactivated military weapons along the same route in Yemen that was used by the Al-Qaeda jihadis who carried out the deadly Charlie Hebdo massacre in Paris.

The gang's haul of 22 VZ58s, dubbed the 'Czech AK47', nine Skorpions and more than 1,000 rounds of ammunition was said to have had four-times the fire-power of the arsenal that killed 130 in November's Paris attacks.

Read more: Great Escape hero held in concentration camp was denied compensation - because he didn't suffer ENOUGH hardship

But despite the assault rifles' capabilities of mass devastation, they were legally sold until July 2015 as 'acoustic expansion weapons', meaning they were disabled by a simple pin through the barrel.

Universal News & Sport The gang's haul was said to have had four-times the fire-power of the arsenal that killed 130 in the latest Paris attacks

PA All five of those convicted today will be sentenced on May 13

All five of those convicted will be sentenced on May 13.

Judge Michael Topolski QC said he will give 'serious consideration' for a life sentence for Shilling.

Following the convictions, Rob Lewin, NCA head of specialist operations, said: "This seizure of automatic weapons was the largest ever made by the NCA - and, we believe, the largest ever on the UK mainland.

"These are hugely powerful firearms, and have, as the prosecution stated in court, a 'truly devastating capability'.

NEWS This is the moment police firearms officers moved in to arrest David Payne

CENTRAL NEWS Payne and Christopher Owen offload bags from the boat and put them into the van

"We cannot say for certain what the organised crime group would have done with the weapons had they not been stopped.

"But the evidence pointed to them not being afraid to use guns themselves to expand their influence.

"They wanted to move up in the criminal world from regional to international gangsters."