http://mundinews.com/its-not-ethnic-cleansing-just-politics/
203
20
Trinidad Express / Well-known Trinidadian novelist Samuel Selvon writes in The Plains of Caroni: “Negroes and Indians alike sang calypsos and beat bottle and spoon”. Even he recognises the unity of Afro-Trinidadians and Indo-Trinidadians. The politicians are the ones who are dividing us. They operate by the philosophy: divide and rule. We must put a stop to utterances of ethnicity whose main aim is to divide the races. This brings me to the storm in a teacup regarding the dismissals in the Strategic Services Agency (SSA). National Security Minister Edmund Dillon does not have to explain the reason for the dismissal of certain employees of the SSA. He is within the right to work with people he can trust, regardless of race. Their dismissal has nothing to do with race, but politics. Race is a moot point. It is established protocol that whenever a regime changes, all the previous political appointees and sycophants of the former government must do the honourable thing by resigning. I am sure all People’s National Movement (PNM) political appointees were replaced soon after May 2010, when the Kamla Persad-Bissessar administration took office. So what’s different today? If we use the argument that race was the only factor in their dismissal, then all dismissed members of the 130 State boards should send pre-action protocol letters to Prime Minister Dr Keith Rowley. A case in point is the American system of governance. If Hillary Clinton, a Democrat, wins the 2016 US presidential election, doesn’t she have the power to replace most or all of fellow Democrat president Barack Obama’s appointments? So we are first following ­protocol. The PNM is now in power. Dr Rowley has the power to replace every- and anyone appointed by the Persad-Bissessar administration. It is just a coincidence that ­certain ethnic groups support one party or the other. Political appointees are replaced because of political affiliation and not ethnic cleansing of “East Indian” ­employees. John Jessamy Fyzabad