http://ethicaljournalismnetwork.org/en/contents/ethical-journalism-network-newsletter-29-march-2017
203
20
News

Terror attacks put journalists’ ethics on the frontline James Rodgers, City University London The attacks on Brussels on March 22 were a reminder of why [the “war on terror” is such a huge test for journalists]. Journalists find themselves at the centre of events as never before. The bombers struck at soft targets to inspire fear. That fear spread as the coverage continued. Without the coverage – or at least if there had been less of it – would the attackers’ aim have been frustrated? Perhaps so. But even if the authorities had requested that, it would have been wrong to agree. As [Peter] Greste noted, journalists find themselves at the centre of conflict as never before. Not just war, but political battles, and “anti-terrorist operations”. They are targets. Islamic State beheads them. Others seek to co-opt them. Ethical dilemmas emerge. In July 2005, I was among the BBC editors who agreed to a reporting blackout as police closed in on the suspects in a series of failed suicide bombings. The idea was that live TV coverage might have tipped off the wanted men. Was it right to do the authorities’ bidding? Read the full article here. (The Conversation – republished on the EJN)

Media and migration, covering the refugee crisis Although many media have focused on humanistic reporting and on telling the stories of refugees, very few journalists are trained to cover this issue ‘ with important consequences. These were some of the conclusions of media experts who gathered on 18 March in Paris to discuss about Media and Migration, during a thematic debate organized by UNESCO’s International Programme for the Development of Communication (IPDC). Read the full article here. (Big News Network) The article quotes our Director, who spoke at the event: Across all countries, ‘media have been manipulated by political leaders, too often accepting their outrageous statements’ added Aidan White, Director of the Ethical Journalism Network which has recently published ‘Moving Stories’, an international review of how media cover migration. You can also read EJN’s review of the UNESCO event here.

How one family became faces for the Syrian refugee crisis After an Assad regime mortar assault leveled their neighborhood in Homs in early 2012, Hussam and Suha Al Roustom fled with their two children to another part of town. Then, as the city in western Syria further devolved into chaos in 2013, the family escaped for Jordan in the back of a pickup truck, eventually hiking through the night to cross the Syrian-Jordanian border. They lived in cramped, metal trailers at two refugee camps, often without electricity or running water, as they underwent a yearlong vetting process for resettlement. Finally, after extensive interviews and background checks, they were cleared to move to the United States,where they hoped to build a new life. Read the full article here. (CJR)

Framing conflict and war – the Cold War and after The media – whether mainstream or the ubiquitous social media – is the main source of news and information about conflicts and war, especially those in distant lands. Few people directly witness or are able to directly research the nature, causes and consequences of conflicts. They rely on the media to help them better understand war and why it is being waged. With the best will in the world and the most balanced and informed journalists media outlets cannot ever give a fully accurate and totally balanced account but they can do their best to select the most important facts and present them as clearly and impartially as possible with interpretations based on verified information. Read the full article here. (EJN) For more on the ethics of covering conflicts see: Instant judgments and distant editors, the problems of reporting Africa Journalists at war, from Crimean War to Ukraine Crisis

Dündar/Gül trial – RSF opposes Erdogan’s “autocratic retribution” Dündar, Cumhuriyet’s editor, and Gül, the newspaper’s Ankara bureau chief, are facing the possibility of life imprisonment over their revelations about Turkish arms deliveries to Islamist groups in Syria ­– revelations of crucial importance for all those interested in the repercussions of the Syrian conflict and in terrorism. A constitutional court ruling ended their pre-trial detention in February, after three months, but President Erdogan said he would not respect this decision. “The trial of Dündar and Gül is a test for the rule of law in Turkey,” RSF secretary-general Christophe Deloire said. “We are stunned by President Erdogan’s repeated intervention in this case since personally filing the original complaint, showing that it has all the characteristics of an autocratic retribution. “The conditional release of Dündar and Gül was encouraging but everything is just beginning. We urge the court to dismiss the absurd charges that have been brought against these two journalists.” Read the full article here. (RSF)