http://windsorstar.com/news/local-news/we-thank-god-we-are-in-canada-pakistani-family-reacts-to-latest-terror-attack
202
20
Mohsin Naqvi had trouble sleeping Sunday night, his mind filled with images of mothers cradling dead children in their arms.

In Canada, they are the stuff of nightmares. In Naqvi’s native Pakistan, it is the reality of living with Taliban terrorists in your midst.

“We thank God we are in Canada,” Naqvi, secretary-general of the Pakistan Canada Association of Windsor, said Monday. “Our hearts go out to the victims and families.”

A suicide bomber struck in a park in the province of Punjab’s capital of Lahore Sunday, killing 72 people — 29 of them children. Another 340 people were injured — many seriously.

It was the sixth terrorist blast in the country since December.

As Naqvi speaks of homeland, his six-year-old son Ayan bounces about the room before landing on his father’s lap. Neither Ayan, nor his two older sisters have ever been to the land of their father’s birth.

“My wife says there is nowhere there that is safe,” he said. “We try to teach these children their culture and their heritage from here in Canada.”

Pakistan just celebrated Resolution Day, a national holiday commemorating the establishment of a Muslim federation within the British-controlled territories in India in 1940.

Naqvi and his family had just returned from city hall Sunday where Mayor Drew Dilkens had hoisted the flag of Pakistan in honour of the holiday. Many of the 1,000 local families who are part of his association were there. Naqvi said he got changed then turned on the television to see scenes from the park in Lahore.

While the attack was at first seen as an attack on Christians, it was mostly Muslim families killed, Naqvi said. It was reminiscent of a school massacre in a provincial capital of Peshawar in December 2014, in which Taliban fighters killed 132 children and nine teachers.

Lahore is known as the City of Parks, said Naqvi. People go there on weekends to find refuge within the crowded city, for picnics and to let their children play. “It’s no different than what I would do here,” he said.

The suicide bomber — a 21-year-old militant whose family was certainly promised money by the Taliban for his martyrdom, Naqvi said — detonated his explosives near the playground area of the park.

Naqvi said it is time for Western nations to have a hard look at Pakistan and the “root cause” of extremist Muslims’ foothold in the nation.

“Before 2001, there were no suicide bombers in Pakistan,” said Naqvi, blaming the U.S. war in Afghanistan for the foothold the Taliban has in Pakistan. The extremists are funded by Saudi Arabia, yet the U.S. has no interest in taking on the oil-rich nation.

Better public education would help the impoverished nation. Boys are scooped up by missionary schools that are little more than training and recruiting grounds for suicide bombers, Naqvi said.

“We have to offer a counter-narrative.”

ssacheli@postmedia.com

Twitter.com/winstarsacheli