http://triblive.com/usworld/world/9770229-74/islamic-syria-killed
202
20
Syria says it's ready for peace talks in Geneva

Email Newsletters Sign up for one of our email newsletters.

DAMASCUS, Syria — The Syrian government announced Saturday it is ready to attend peace talks this month with the opposition in Geneva. An airstrike in northern Syria killed and wounded scores of people, including many insurgents.

Foreign Minister Walid al-Moallem said Damascus wants to see lists of the opposition groups that will attend and ensure that “terrorist” groups will not be represented.

State news agency SANA said al-Moallem made his comments while meeting in Damascus with U.N. envoy Staffan de Mistura. Al-Moallem's comments occurred shortly before opposition activists said an airstrike had killed at least 39 and wounded dozens.

The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said 39 people were killed, including many fighters from al-Qaida's affiliate in Syria, the Nusra Front, as well as detainees in the northwestern town of Maaret al-Numan. It said the targeted area included a jail and a courthouse run by Nusra Front.

The Nusra Front is one of the country's most powerful factions and is opposed to peace talks with the government, saying its aim is to step up an Islamic state in Syria. The group is fighting against government forces, the Islamic State group as well as U.S.-backed rebel factions. Much like its rival, the Islamic State group, the Nusra Front imposes its vision of Islamic Shariah law in territories it controls — including Islamic courts and prisons.

The Syrian government has been carrying out airstrikes for years, which activists say have killed thousands. Russia began an air campaign Sept. 30, saying its airstrikes are meant to weaken the Islamic State group and terrorists in Syria.

Syria-based activist Hadi Abdallah wrote on his Twitter account that the air raid killed 43 and wounded more than 100, claiming it was carried out by Russian aircraft.

The “terrifying massacres was carried out by Russian warplanes,” Abdallah wrote, without saying why he believed they were Russian.

The Observatory said the warplanes fired four missiles that hit the Islamic court, which includes a jail, as well as a nearby road linking the court with a market.