http://www.polishforums.com/history/people-general-dislike-russia-germany-57129/2/
202
20
Polish people are special, as a pole myself I am very proud. Russia has done much more pain to Poland then Germany has. It started 1000 years ago when the Slavics broke up into countries, Poland chose Christianity and Russia chose Orthodox which other Slavs hated because they all chose Christianity. 200 years in around 1250 The Teutonic Order was founded, on Poland's request they asked The Teutons to destroy Lithuania and other non-catholic people. in 1410 we faced the Teutons ourselves and won a victory forming the Polish-Lithunaian Commonwealth, 100 years later we entered our Golden age which Swedes, Cossacks and Russians tried to take. Poland was brutally weakened by the Russians and the Cossacks. in 1612 Poland launched a invasion on Russia which had almost destroyed Russia entirely until the Cossacks rebelled in Ukraine we ceased campaigns in Russia and focused on the Cossacks. We won the war with very high casualties, that period is named the deluge. when we entered the 18th century we were so weakened that our armies were literally destroyed by a thought so we were torn apart by Prussia, Austria and Russia. As you can see we were actually erased from the map for more then 100 years. Late in the 19th century we regained our freedom with Napoleon but again Stalin had launched a invasion on Poland and executed 22 thousand Polish officers at Katyn we managed to win the war with more then 1 million casualties then we entered WW2 which we did not stand more then a year however we took great part of the Battle for Britain. Although we were part of the Allies side we actually lost the war because 1/3 of our people perished 38% of Poland was burnt to the ground and we were secretly sold into the Soviet union which we then had communism in Poland. In 1989 when the Berlin wall fell we were freed from the Soviets. So all this pain by Russians is ridiculous also this is probably half of all the wars! In 2010 our president Lech died in a plane crash while trying to get to Smolensk for a memorial for the 22 thousand Polish officers.