http://www.khmertimeskh.com/news/31316/drug-monitoring-to-continue-at-prisons/
138
13
Efforts to reduce drug trafficking and consumption in Phnom Penh’s Prey Sar prison and Tbong Khmum province’s Trapaing Plong prison will continue, Interior Minister Sar Kheng said yesterday, urging authorities, political parties and citizens to try to limit drug use.



During an event on illegal gambling at the ministry yesterday, Mr. Kheng warned that rising drug consumption is a concern in Cambodia and the region. He stressed that police were working hard to combat the problem and that prison authorities were actively breaking up trafficking rings.



“For these two prisons, we will continue to work relating to drug use,” he said.



He requested the National Working Group on drugs and working groups within political parties to work with the communities in which they are active to increase the reporting of drug-related crimes.



Mr. Kheng also said that once arrests had been made, an offender’s job or wealth must not influence the outcome of the charge against them.



He called on police and military police officials to work together to combat drug crimes, rather than seeking praise and glory for themselves.



Nut Savanea, a spokesman for the general department of prisons, said the problem of drug use in prisons has decreased, but not by “100 percent.”



He said that cooperation among a diverse assortment of institutions and groups was strengthening the gains made in the recent anti-drug crackdowns. The installation of more security cameras, tightening of laws and increased punishments for offenders had contributed to authorities’ successes.



“We will further strengthen the inspection, without prior notice, into prisons but this requires time and more cooperation with relevant units,” he explained.



Figures from the National Authority for Combating Drugs show that 16,570 drug users were arrested in 2015. It noted that 79 percent of all drug arrests concerned consumption or trafficking of crystal methamphetamine.



Mr. Kheng’s calls yesterday mirrored those made by Prime Minister Hun earlier in the month, when he called on authorities to stop the spread of drugs into prisons.