http://www.politico.eu/article/chinas-atlantic-stopover-terceira-worries-washington-li-keqiang-united-states/
139
13
LISBON — Glance at the world map and it’s not immediately clear why the mid-Atlantic island of Terceira makes a convenient stopover for flights between China and Latin America.

Yet Prime Minister Li Keqiang’s two-day “technical stop” on his way home from Cuba this week was latest in a series of such visits by high-ranking Chinese delegations.

President Xi Jinping had a Terceira layover heading to Beijing from Chile in 2014. Li’s predecessor Wen Jiabao brought a delegation of over 100 when he dropped in coming home from a South American tour two years earlier.

Zoom in on a map of the island and a clue to China’s interest in Terceira emerges in the shape of Lajes Field. It’s an airbase that, according to U.S. military documents, boasts the largest runway in Europe, capable of supporting “any commercial or military aircraft in the U.S. or NATO fleet.”

Until recently, Lajes was seen as a key installation linking the United States to Europe and the Middle East — used in the Cold War to track Soviet subs, and a crucial stepping stone in operations ranging from the Berlin Airlift to the Gulf War.

Lately, however, the Pentagon has come to view the base in Portugal’s nine-island Azores archipelago as largely surplus to requirements.

It has been drastically cutting down U.S. staffing — from 3,000 at the Cold War peak to a couple of hundred — much to the chagrin of Portuguese authorities for whom the American military presence is vital for the local economy.

The downscaling of Lajes has long been opposed by Washington defense hawks. Now they fear that, as the U.S. pulls out, China is itching to move in.

“Should the Chinese establish a logistical base in the mid-Atlantic, future historians will scratch their heads at such American shortsightedness,” said Michael Rubin, a former Pentagon official now at the American Enterprise Institute, a think tank.

Terceira is less than 2,300 miles from New York, he pointed out.

Devin Nunes, the Republican chair of the House Intelligence Committee, warned in a letter last week to U.S. Defense Secretary Ashton Carter that Chinese plans in the Azores aim to create a “logistics and intelligence hub that could ultimately be expanded for other military purposes.”

The Chinese and Portuguese governments have been coy about Beijing’s interest in Lajes and the little harbor of Praia da Vitória next door, which the Azores regional government wants to develop as a deep-water seaport.

Portugal has major economic reasons for keeping on good terms with China.

Lisbon denies it’s in negotiation with anybody but the United States on the base’s future.

“I don’t know if there is Chinese interest in Lajes,” Foreign Minister Augusto Santos Silva said after meeting with Li on Tuesday.

“What I do know is that Portugal’s only interest is that the base is used fully under the defense and cooperation agreement that we have with the United States,” he told local media.

Officials are unclear over what will happen if the U.S. continues with its plans to wind down its operations in Lajes. The government is pressing ahead to certify Lajes as a fully operational commercial airport. Funding for the seaport, officials say, is a purely commercial matter.

Beijing has stressed the “technical” nature of Li’s layover. Official Chinese media reports of the visit have been limited to generalities about the good relations between Lisbon and Beijing.

Don’t call it military

Officially, China doesn’t do overseas military bases. Work did start this year on a naval hub in the East African nation of Djibouti to house China’s first permanent foreign deployment, in support of anti-piracy operations in the Indian Ocean. Beijing calls that “logistical facilities” rather than a base.

Still, critics fear Chinese infrastructure investments touted as commercial ventures in the Azores would have strategic potential.

“The Chinese will never call it a military base. That’s a non-starter. The question is whether they will make it a military base in all but name,” Rubin told POLITICO.

He points to the billions of dollars China is investing in transport routes leading to the Pakistani port of Gwadar, “where everything is built to military specifications, so that it becomes a placeholder for potential military operations in time of crisis.”

Portuguese Prime Minister António Costa is scheduled to visit China early in October.

The talks with Li this week were to prepare for that trip, said foreign minister Santos Silva — as well as seeking Chinese support for the bid of Portugal’s António Guterres to become U.N. secretary-general.

“This visit will be the occasion to move forward with some work that is in process, to sign some agreements and create some news,” Santos Silva said Tuesday.

Portugal has major economic reasons for keeping on good terms with China.

Beijing has been investing big in Portugal. Funds that its firms have pumped into energy, healthcare, real estate and other sectors have been welcomed by Portugal’s crisis-bound economy.

Chinese investment in Portugal totaled €5.5 billion from 2010 to 2015, the highest in the EU behind the big four of Britain, Italy, France and Germany. Portugal received almost four times more than its big neighbor Spain, and over 10 times more than Greece.

Questions are being raised about the extent to which that economic clout can be translated into Chinese political influence in Lisbon.

Nunes — whose family is of Azorean origin — says the downgrading of the Lajes base is forcing Portugal to chose between its loyalty as a U.S. ally and the economic wellbeing of its citizens.

Playing both sides?

However, there are also suggestions Lisbon is bluffing: Brandishing the threat of Chinese incursions into the mid-Atlantic to pressure Washington into reversing its Azorean downsizing plans — particularly given that a different administration with new defense priorities will soon be in the White House.

“The Chinese interest is to have a foothold in the middle of the Atlantic that would greatly favor its influence in the region … it’s difficult to grasp what the Portuguese interest would be from a strategic point of view,” said Raquel Vaz-Pinto of the Portuguese Institute of International Relations.

“It could be used as a trade-off, to make the U.S. look to the Azores and this base with renewed interest,” she added.

After the Obama administration’s much-vaunted foreign policy pivot to the Pacific, his successor may have to deal with a Chinese pivot toward the Atlantic.

Certainly the Portuguese have been lobbying hard to maintain the U.S. presence on the island — where the base is the biggest single employer.

In New York last week, President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa warned bluntly that China and others could step into gaps left by U.S. disengagement.

“There are no vacuums in politics or economics,” he told a meeting of business leaders. “It’s always better to have long-term allies filling those spaces than recent allies or recent investors, but if you leave a space empty, somebody will fill it.”

Ironically, after the Obama administration’s much-vaunted foreign policy pivot to the Pacific, his successor may have to deal with a Chinese pivot toward the Atlantic.

“All this interest over the Azores and the Lajes base shows one undeniable reality: China today is more and more a global player,” says Vaz-Pinto “And it has no worries about trying to play in U.S. territory.”