http://files.heraldscotland.com/news/14793650.Davis_suggests_UK_will_not_look_to_remain_member_of_European_single_market/
130
13
David Davis has suggested Britain will not look to remain a member of the European single market.

The Brexit Secretary opened a Commons statement by telling MPs the Government wants the "most open, barrier-free access to the European market" and slammed talk of "hard" and "soft" Brexit.

Under further questioning, Mr Davis acknowledged it is "not necessary to be a member of the single market to trade incredibly successfully inside the single market".

He was later urged by Labour MP Wes Streeting (Ilford North) to "clear up" the confusion over access to the single market by bringing forward a pre-negotiation White Paper.

Mr Davis replied: "We will seek to get the most open, barrier-free market we can. Full stop.

"That will be as good as a single market."

Mr Davis made the remarks as Labour criticised the continued lack of detail about the Government's plans for Brexit.

Prime Minister Theresa May is coming under growing pressure to allow MPs a vote on membership of the European single market.

There is increasing speculation the Government favours so-called "hard" Brexit, which is viewed as leaving the single market in order to curb free movement.

Replying to questions from Labour, Mr Davis told shadow Brexit secretary Sir Keir Starmer: "We want the most open, barrier-free access to the European market, full stop. That's very clear.

"The honourable lady is shouting 'What about our economy?' That's the answer.

"We want the most open, barrier-free access to the European market.

"We've heard lots and lots of very unhelpful, misleading comments frankly on hard Brexit and soft Brexit.

"What we want is the best possible access terms, full stop. Best terms - that's it."

He made further remarks on the single market during a lengthy session of questions on his statement.

In a reply to Conservative former minister Owen Paterson, Mr Davis said: "There are something like more than 20 countries that have had more success in growth terms in trading in the single market than we have in the last 20 years."

He added: "It's not necessary to be a member of the single market to trade incredibly successfully inside the single market."

Earlier, Sir Keir said Mr Davis's statement to MPs lacked substance and insisted Labour does "accept and respect" the EU referendum result.

He added: "But neither those who voted to Remain nor those who voted to Leave gave the Government a mandate to take an axe to our economy.

"Throughout the process the national interest must come first, yet by flirting with hard Brexit the Prime Minister puts at risk access to the single market rather than doing the right thing for jobs, for business and for working people in this country.

"I observed the words 'single market' do not appear at all in the statement today - so much for putting the national interest first."

Former Labour leader Ed Miliband joined forces with Nick Clegg, former leader of the Liberal Democrats, to question the Government's Brexit deal mandate.

Mr Miliband said: "There is clearly a mandate for Brexit from this referendum but there is no mandate for the particular form of Brexit."

Mr Davis, in his reply, said: "I really cannot believe my ears. Here we have the largest mandate this country has ever given to a government on any subject in our history.

"It's very plain."

Mr Davis also said he was unaware of any negotiation in history in the areas of commerce, politics or international affairs where disclosing precise details before an agreement was done "leads to a successful outcome".

However, he did pledge to be "as open as we can be".

Mr Davis also warned the EU against pursuing a "punishment strategy" in forthcoming Brexit negotiations.

He said: "The damage done by a supposed punishment strategy would be primarily to the industries and the farmers on the continent who export to this country.

"I'm afraid that Mr Hollande and Madame Merkel and others will find that they have pressure back from their own constituents that says 'this is not a good strategy to pursue'.

"We believe in this country in free trade. Why do we believe in free trade? Because it's beneficial to both sides.

"I do not see how there is a logic in exercising a punishment strategy against one of your strongest and most loyal allies."

In the Lords, Tory former chancellor Lord Lamont of Lerwick welcomed the Government's stance, insisting it was "absurd" that the negotiating aims should be "paraded in public".

He said there were "disadvantages" to membership of the European single market, including "the fact that we can't make our own trade deals" and must accept regulation.

Brexit minister Lord Bridges of Headley said it was critical that ministers and politicians should be precise in the terms used.

There was a great difference between membership of and access to the single market and people had become confused about this.

Lord Bridges said he could not go further in defining the Government's course of action in the negotiations but it would aim to ensure the "maximum freedom for business to trade with and within the single market".

Challenged further over the timing of talks and whether Parliament would have a say, the minister vowed: "We are not going to have backsliding over the result of the referendum."