http://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/latest-news/486542/Paris-Knifeman-Migrant-Asylum-seeker-Germany-France-French-Police-Islamic-State-ISIS-Daesh
202
20
A KNIFEMAN who stormed a Paris police station carrying a piece of paper showing the ISIS flag lived in a German asylum centre, cops have revealed.

AFP GETTY CHILLING: The attacker was carrying a piece of paper with the ISIS flag printed on it

The attacker was wearing a fake explosives vest and shouted “Allah Akbar” - God is Great - during the terrifying incident before he was shot dead. German cops said they had raided an apartment at an asylum centre in the western city of Recklinghausen. They claimed it had been occupied by the attacker.

Officers said they were acting on "concrete evidence" obtained from French security authorities. They said the results of the search are still being evaluated but there is no evidence of further possible attacks being planned. Cops said they would not release any further information at the moment to avoid jeopardising the ongoing investigation.

GETTY FILE PIC TERRIFYING: The man (not pictured) was living at a German asylum centre

French investigators are still trying to determine the true identity of the man who was originally identified as Sallah Ali. Paris prosecutor Francois Molins confirmed the attacker was carrying a piece of paper that pledged allegiance to the leader of evil ISIS - also known as Daesh - and said "his act is linked to the deaths in Syria”.

“A mobile phone and a piece of paper, on which appear the Daesh flag and a clear written claim in Arabic, were found on the individual” Francois Molins He also had a phone with a German SIM card, the prosecutor said. He said: "A mobile phone and a piece of paper, on which appear the Daesh flag and a clear written claim in Arabic, were found on the individual."

Acts of terrorism that shook the world Wednesday, 29th June 2016 Some of the most horrifying acts of terrorism of all time from 9/11 to the Paris attacks, these murderous acts killed several thousands of people and caused millions of pounds of damage to properties worldwide. 1 / 19 AFP/Getty Images The wreck of the Number 30 double-decker bus in Tavistock Square, one of four bombs set off by terrorists on July 7th 2005, which killed 52 and injured over 700 people

Alexis Mukenge, who saw the shooting from inside another building, told the network iTele that police told the man, "Stop. Move back." Mukenge said officers fired twice and the man immediately dropped to the ground. A police official said Ali "shouted 'Allahu Akbar' and had wires protruding from his clothes. That's why the police officer opened fire." The chilling attack occurred on the one-year anniversary of the Charlie Hebdo massacre where 12 people were killed at the satirical newspaper's office by jihadi gunmen.