http://www.haberajans.net/Algeria-women-s-rights
202
20
Video duration : 02:59

Video uploaded by : AP Archive

Video release date : Jul 21st, 2015

French/Nat For the first time in Algeria's modern history women are playing a key role in the country's elections. As the electorate went to the polls on Thursday, all the political parties were hoping campaign pledges to improve women's rights would capture the country's female vote. Women are being put up as candidates in a country where insurgents have been fighting to replace the government with a state based on Islamic law. In Algeria's first election since the army-backed coup in 1992, women have taken on a new importance in shaping the country's political landscape. All the parties fighting for a share of the new legislature are trying to win the female vote. At the heart of the campaign is the so-called Family Code. Introduced in 1984 by President Chedli Benjedid as a concession to the increasing power of the Islamic groups this law in effect puts women at the mercy of men. Now all the parties, bar the Islamists, are promising to reform it. But the importance of women is even recognised by the Society for Peace, a moderate Islamic party expected to collect some votes from sympathisers of the Islamic Salvation Front, banned in 1992. Led by Sheik Mahfoud Nahnah, the Society for Peace supports the Family Code but encourages women to take a fuller role in society. But other parties, such as the Worker's Party, want the code to be changed. The major point of the law is that a woman is the responsibility of either her father, husband or brother, giving her no independent legal rights. That is something supporters of women's rights find unacceptable. SOUNDBITE: (French) "We are for equal rights so that women can have a real life like men, like children, so that they have a life, so that we have a chance to get ourselves some rights." SUPER CAPTION: Louisa Hannoun, Workers' Party candidate Louisa Hannoun is a champion of Algeria's female voters and is seen by many as a formidable challenger to the country's male politicians. SOUNDBITE: (French) "Louisa Hannoun, she's a man, she's a man, and she's one of the toughest men in Algeria and that's why I say to all the men of Algeria, vote for Louisa Hannoun, the strongest guy in Algeria." SUPER CAPTION: Vox pop One of the most controversial points of the Family Code states that in the case of divorce the husband receives all the benefits; he has the right to throw his wife out onto the street, leaving her with no legal recourse to money or possessions. As a result many women have been forced to live rough as beggars. The Rally for Culture and Democracy (R-C-D) aims to end this practice. A fervently anti-fundamentalist party, the R-C-D is demanding the code be annulled. SOUNDBITE: (French) "Today all the parties, including the right wing have had to take a stand on changing the Family Code, they've had to change their stance and I say it's due to women of the democratic parties, it's due to us and our struggle that they've had to change their position." SUPER CAPTION: Khalida Messaoudi, Rally for Culture and Democracy (R-C-D) candidate The government party - the National Democratic Rally (R-N-D) - has now been forced to call for changes to certain articles of the code. It has government ministers including Prime Minister Mohamed Ouyahia as its leading candidates, but is also putting up a number of women. Among its female candidates is Zahiya Benarus, an Algerian TV presenter, a well- known face to attract the female vote. Benarus says women have always played a central role in Algerian history. SOUNDBITE: (French) SUPER CAPTION: Zahiya Benarus, Algerian TV presenter 40 parties are fielding nearly 8-thousand candidates, and 17 (m) million Algerians are eligible to vote. You can license this story through AP Archive: http://www.aparchive.com/metadata/youtube/2269144b69877e93cf16d2d11c6e7ce6 Find out more about AP Archive: http://www.aparchive.com/HowWeWork