http://nation.com.pk/national/25-Oct-2016/jacpiae-warns-govt-against-pia-privatisation
130
13
ISLAMABAD - The Joint Action Committee of Pakistan International Airlines’ Employees yesterday warned the government not to re-initiate the process of privatization of the national airline otherwise the employees will start their agitation yet again.



Hidayatullah Khan, President People's Unity and Deputy Convener JACPIAE, added that if the government sticks to its plan of privatizing PIA, they would restart their protest and employees of the airline would not allow the government to play with their future and sell a strategic national asset through conspiracies.



“We have reason to believe through actions of management and through media reports that the government is again planning to initiate the privatization process of Pakistan International Airlines (PIA),” he said after a meeting of JACPIAE.



He said the murder of two members was yet to be investigated which was promised by the government and law enforcement agencies, “our fellow workers embraced martyrdom by giving their lives for this cause how can we now let the privatization happen,” he said.



The Senate and parliament of the country had to block the privatization of PIA through a resolution, followed by a bill, earlier this year when thousands of employees of the airline started massive protest against the country.



The JACPIAE leader was of the view that the Prime Minister should fulfil his promise of not privatizing the airline.

“We had a meeting with the PM Nawaz Sharif and he categorically stated that he would not let the privatization of the national airline happen,” he said.



The employees association under the banner of JACPIAE had tried to convince the Prime Minister that the employees of the airline could make PIA profitable.



They said the aims and objectives of JACPIAE are very clear in this regard.

“We would resist the privatization till the very end.

We want revival and that’s easily possible.

The PM and his team should consider this,” suggested.



Privatization is not a viable solution for PIA, instead the government should implement the orders of Supreme Court by appointing honest and capable Chairman and Managing Director on merit and should constitute a judicial commission under the serving judge of SC to investigate the airline’s downfall.



They added that the government through this privatization initiative will only end up increasing unemployment and subsequently lawlessness.

The control given to likeminded people on just 26% shares will only drain out a national asset.



They said the privatization never produced desired results in Pakistan especially when it comes to transparency.

PIA has had a strategic value and served as a helping hand to the government when it comes to connect people from far flung areas like Gilgit, Chitral, Gwadar, Zhob to the main cities.

