http://www.india.com/news/india/surgical-strike-backlash-jaish-e-mohammad-terrorists-planning-spectacular-attack-on-parliament-spree-of-terror-strikes-in-delhi-1546672/
131
13
New Delhi, Oct 10: In order to take revenge of the surgical strike carried out by India across the Line of Control (LoC) in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, Pakistani intelligence agency ISI has reportedly asked Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) operatives to plan ‘spectacular’ terror attack against India. Jaish-e-Mohammad chief Maulana Masood Azhar, who plotted the Pathankot attack, is thinking to attack Indian Parliament again. According to intelligence report, Jaish-e-Mohammad terrorists have been asked by their leaders to plan a “spectacular attack” to target the Parliament. The Parliament was attacked by Jaish-e-Mohammad militants led by Afzal Guru in 2001.

According to the sources of the security establishment, Jaish-e-Mohammad terrorists are planning a major attack on Parliament. Delhi Secretariat, Akshardham and the Lotus Temple are also on their hit-list. The operatives of the Pakistan-based terror outfit have been asked to target crowded places such as market, if they fail to attack on the Parliament. The threat has put all security agencies on their toes and attempts are being made to foil any such strike.

According to a report of Times of India, besides Jaish-e-Mohammad, a splinter group named Jaishul-Haq Tanzeem-led by Maulana Abdur Rehman aka MAR may carry out terror spree in India. The MAR had played a key role in the hijacking of Indian Airlines Flight IC-814 to Kandahar, Afghanistan, which led to the release of Jaish-e-Mohammad chief Maulana Masood Azhar. The security agencies are reviewing the security arrangements of the Parliament following the inputs of terror attack. (ALSO READ: Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba suffered maximum damage in surgical strikes)

Earlier the intelligence agencies had received inputs that the two JeM terrorists had been headed towards Delhi in a commercial vehicle, possibly a truck transporting apples to a wholesale market in the national capital. The suspected terrorists had left Kulgam, south Kashmir, and were purportedly armed with Kalashnikovs and other deadly weapons. Since September, 2011, Delhi has not witnessed terror attack. The last terror strike was the attack on an Israeli diplomat in February 2012.

India has been on high alert since September 29 when Indian Army conducted surgical strike across the Line of Control (LoC) and destroyed seven terror launch pads in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. Unspecified number of terrorists were killed in the surgical strike. The covert operation rattled the terror outfits and their supporters in the Pakistan army and intelligence agencies. Pakistan has been denying any surgical strike in PoK. Tension between India and Pakistan has been at peak since Uri attack in which 18 Army jawans were martyred.