http://www.cleveland.com/darcy/index.ssf/2016/01/obamas_gun_control_fight_darcy.html
202
20
CLEVELAND,Ohio -- President Obama's executive pen and political will are locked and loaded for a fight to strengthen gun control laws in his final year in office.

Tuesday, Obama announced he had issued an executive order to tighten and expand the background check process for firearm purchases.

Obama became emotional when he began talking about the victims of the Sandy Hook elementary school massacre in Newtown, Connecticut. "People are dying," said the president. "And the constant excuses for inaction no longer do, no longer suffice. That is why we are here today. Not to debate the last mass shooting, but to do something to prevent the next one."

In a New York Times op-ed, Obama wrote,"I will not campaign for, vote for or support any candidate, even in my own party, who does not support common-sense gun reform." Obama reiterated that vow while participating in a CNN town hall discussion on guns, Wednesday evening.

Obama also lashed out at the NRA for declining CNN's invitation to participate in the town hall meeting and repeated invitations to speak to him and his administration. " Since this is the reason they exist, you'd think they'd be ready to have a debate with the president."

The exasperated president fired back at host Anderson Cooper when Cooper asked if it was fair to term fears that Obama intends to take guns away from lawful owners an NRA-driven "conspiracy." "I'm sorry, Cooper, yes it's fair to call it a conspiracy," snapped Obama. "What are you saying? Are you suggesting that the notion that we are creating a plot to take everybody's guns away so that we can impose martial law is a conspiracy? Yes, that is a conspiracy. I'm only going to be here for another year, when would I have started on this enterprise?"

The majority of Americans support sensible changes to improve background checks for firearms purchases. But common-sense gun control laws will never pass as long as the U.S. Congress and state legislatures remain under the control of the gun lobby.

Not even 20 little schoolchildren having their bodies torn apart by hollow point bullets in the Newtown massacre was enough to motivate Congress to take action to protect the people they were elected to serve.

Given that appalling fact, it's as certain as death itself that Obama's noble pleas will be shot down by the hollow minds and hearts in Congress.