http://en.shafaqna.com/news/27516
202
20
SHAFAQNA- Shia group members have on February 3, Wednesday, protested in Kaduna, demanding the release of their leader Sheik Ibrahim El-Zakzaky.

The group said that Zakzaky has been detained for the past 50 days by security agents.

According to one of the activists, “it is pathetic that contrary to Nigerian constitution that said nobody can be detained more than 24 hours without being charged to the court, sheik El-Zakzaky has been in custody for 50days which is a violation of his constitutional right.”

On his own part Mikaeel Yusuf, the leader of the protest stated that the Nigerian army attack on the residents of Sheik El-Zakzaky and two of their centers caused the missing of 730 of their members while 220 are in Kaduna prison, among them women and students.

He said: “We must accept the fact that students lay the foundation stone of the future of all societies because the youthful stage of a student is a prominent stage compare to all stages of life. It is a stage where students learn life issues and how to tackle challenges ahead and how to build a beautiful life. This is a stage where the growth and development of every nation is determined.

“It is now six weeks on, since when the Nigerian army launched a coordinated crackdown massacre on members of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria under the guardianship of his eminence Allamah Shaikh Ibraheem Zakzaky. Tens of students were brutally killed by the Nigerian army and hundreds more are still under illegal detentions.

“This is a display of inhumane and gross violation of fundamental human rights against fellow Nigerian citizens. Based on the list that the Islamic Movement compiled, 750 men and women are either in military detentions or murdered.

“Amongst them are dozens of students, excluding the 220 others that are presently in Kaduna, some Prison languishing with gun shots injuries without medical treatment. Children killed in 2014 by the same Army also blocked way? Does the house of Shaikh Zakzaky that was set on fire with people inside and later demolished blocked way?

“What about killing of finally, we are calling for the immediate release of Allamah Shaikh Ibraheem Zakzaky and his wife as well as all others in detention. The perpetrators of these demonic acts be brought to book for the crime against humanity we demand Justice right now,” he said.

The Islamic Movement in Nigeria alleged that following the conflict between the Nigerian army and Shiites on December 12-13 about 1,000 of its members were killed by soldiers.

Meanwhile, the army chief Tukur Buratai while speaking with journalists said his convoy was attacked despite pleas by a detachment of soldiers for the sect members to remove the blockade they mounted on the highway.