http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3831721/Labor-opposition-formalises-opposition-sex-marriage-plebiscite-ahead-parliamentary-debate.html
130
13
The Australian Labor Party has hammered the first nails into the coffin of the Turnbull Government's proposed same-sex marriage plebiscite.

Opposition MPs formalised their opposition to the $160 million poll during a meeting in Canberra on Tuesday, ahead of a debate in the House of Representatives.

Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull condemned Labor leader Bill Shorten's caucus decision but declined to consider a free vote on the issue in parliament.

Labor leader Bill Shorten (centre) with frontbenchers Mark Dreyfus and Terri Butler

'Mr Shorten supported a plebiscite of this kind only three years ago,' he told reporters.

'He has decided he doesn't want a plebiscite on any terms. He doesn't want the Australian people to have a say on any terms.'

Following the caucus meeting, Mr Shorten appeared with shadow attorney-general Mark Dreyfus and equality frontbencher Terri Butler to announce Labor's position.

'The Labor caucus unanimously resolved to oppose the marriage plebiscite,' he told reporters.

Deputy leader Tanya Plibersek hugs Shelley Argent, who has a gay son, after the caucus vote

'The Labor Party therefore will oppose in parliament Malcolm Turnbull's expensive, divisive plebiscite.'

Labor's caucus position was announced after Attorney-General George Brandis released draft amendments to the Marriage Act late on Monday night.

The changes include redefining marriage as between 'two people' instead of 'a man and a woman' and allowing ministers of religion to refuse to solemnise a marriage.

Labor leader Bill Shorten ahead of a parliamentary debate on a gay marriage plebiscite

Non-religious celebrants can also refuse to marry a same-sex couple on a 'conscientious' basis under the proposed legislation.

Education Minister Simon Birmingham, who favours gay marriage, threw Labor a late lifeline, suggesting the planned $15 million funding for the 'yes' and 'no' campaigns could be scrapped.

'lf that is something the Labor party want to take out in return for support for a plebiscite they should say so and put it on the table,' he said.

'It would be a reasonable request and one we could consider ourselves.'

But Deputy Labor leader Tanya Plibersek labelled the offer as insincere.

'This is an absurd last-minute effort from the government,' she said.

'(They) have made it very plain that they are not prepared to compromise on the most fundamental aspects of this plebiscite, including things like the question.'

Deputy leader Tanya Plibersek with a baby after Labor's caucus meeting

On Monday night, one Queensland Labor caucus member Susan Lamb held back tears in parliament as she talked about having a gay son.

'Regardless of the outcome, the holding of a plebiscite is deeply offensive to LGBTI Australians and it is deeply insulting to those who love them,' she said.

'I will always be a person who stands against discrimination in all its permutations.

'In doing so, I stand in solidarity with my son and the LGBTI community.'

A fellow Queenslander, Nationals MP George Christensen, said he was in two minds about the likelihood of the plebiscite being quashed.

'On one hand I supposed I would be pleased, on the other hand it really is the Labor Party depriving the Australian people of a say,' he said.

The Greens, Nick Xenophon Team and independent senator Derryn Hinch have vowed to vote down the plebiscite bill in the Senate.