http://www.expatch.org/2016/02/26/modern-military-historys-greatest-rescue-operation-happened-here-in-the-philippines/
203
20
Last 22 February 2016, I visited University of the Philippines Los Baños, Laguna to attend an event that is very important, especially for relatives of World War II veterans. This event pays tribute to the greatest and the most successful rescue operation in modern military history – the Liberation of Los Baños (a.k.a. the Raid of Los Baños). From 1942-1945, thousands of civilians were prisoners of war when the Japanese invaded the Philippines. These prisoners were detained in University of Santo Tomas in Manila, while 2000+ were taken to UP Los Baños (Baker Hall). Majority of the prisoners here are Americans, or foreigners from Allied nations, and more.

Write the author.

Prior to the Battle of Manila that was happening at the start of 1945, it was essential that these prisoners in Los Baños had to be rescued as they were a vulnerable target of massacre by the Japanese. Thus, careful, precise but quick planning was needed. This rescue operation was headed by a group of young Filipino guerrillas called “Hunters ROTC Guerrillas” headed Col. Terry Adevoso. Col. Gustavo Ingles scouted the area and planned the rescue operation. He coordinated the attacking forces that liberated the Los Baños Internment Camp. Col. Emmanuel V. De Ocampo provided a blocking force against possible Japanese reinforcements during the attack and the liberation of allied internees in Los Baños. Col. Honorio K. Guerrero was the Unified Ground Commander and he led the Hunters forces that participated in the liberation of the prison camp.

The rescue operation was also in partnership with the US Army’s 11th Airborne Division, along with the Bolomen Guerrillas, Markings Guerrillas, Hukbalahap resistance, the Chinese Wha-Chi Guerrillas and more. From this raid, they were able to rescue 2,147 Allied civilians. Thus, this is the world’s largest civilian internee rescue in modern military history.

Here are more astonishing facts about the Liberation of Los Baños. Check out the figures at the “Strength” and “Casualties”. (Click here to zoom in.)

What is notable with this successful rescue operation was the role of the Hunters ROTC Guerrillas, without which the whole mission would not be possible. It was their efforts, sacrifices and information provided by the Filipino guerrillas that gave the Allied Forces sufficient leads on how to defeat the Japanese forces in the Philippines at that time.

Lastly, let us remember that our victory during the Battle of Manila (and all battles leading to the liberation of the country) shortened the duration of World War II in the Pacific. This victory also prevented the Japanese forces from further attacking Australia and India.

Being a foreigner in the Philippines, what is the significance of the Liberation of Los Baños for you? It’s simple. Their story of victory tells us how Filipinos would risk their lives for the sake of foreigners who were victims of war at that time. It is also a story on how unity and teamwork can defeat overwhelming odds.

This inspirational video explains more…

Message from the Chairman • Unsurrendered 2: The Hunters ROTC …“Life is valuable if it is lived for others, but it becomes even more valuable if it is died for others.”PVB Chairman Roberto F. de Ocampo, OBE, shares a message to the youth about the importance of the story of the Hunters ROTC Guerrillas.Own the movie today!DVD ORDER FORM: http://goo.gl/forms/b3yxCuHsr8OFFICIAL TEASER: https://www.facebook.com/Spyron.AVManila/videos/vl.1627425084155519/965438313478540/?type=1V-J DAY TEASER: https://www.facebook.com/Spyron.AVManila/videos/vl.1627425084155519/975569212465450/?type=1A Peter Parsons-Lucky Guillermo Presentation, sponsored by Philippine Veterans Bank and Forerunner Technologies Inc. A Bani Logroño Film. Posted by Spyron-AV Manila on Monday, September 21, 2015

Remembering the Heroes

The 71st Commemoration of the Liberation of Los Baños started around 8:00am with a floral offering and gun salute at the historical marker beside Baker Hall. This was followed by a programme at the UPLB Grandstand. Around 10:00am, there was a free film showing of the award-winning war documentary “Unsurrendered 2”. There were four screenings of the film for that day at the DL Umali Hall. “Unsurrendered 2” had its premiere at Ayala Museum last year in September. It earned three awards last year like Golden Award from World Documentary Awards, Jakarta, Indonesia; Best Documentary Feature Film from Kiwi International Film Festival, New Zealand; International Documentary Award from Hollywood International Moving Pictures Film Fest, Hollywood, Los Angeles, California, USA. Just recently, Unsurrendered 2 won its 4th international award in Vancouver, Canada. The movie was awarded the Royal Reel Award, Canada International Film Festival. “Unsurrendered 2” is a Peter Parsons-Lucky Guillermo Presentation, directed by Bani Logroño, produced by Mai Guillermo and sponsored by Philippine Veterans Bank and The Music Source.

This event in UPLB was organised by the Philippine Veterans Bank, United States Embassy, UP Los Baños Administration, Veterans Federation of the Philippines, Inc., Spyron-AV Manila, Sons and Daughters of the Hunters Inc., Department of Social Sciences, The Municipality of Los Baños, Department of Military Sciences and Tactics, Philippine Living History Society, 11th Airborne Division Association, Wha-Chi 48th Squadron Family Members and Upsilon Sigma Phi.

“Learn a little about your past, and you may end up with a pretty nice future” ~ by Martin Luther King, Jr.

Share

Tweet