http://www.care2.com/causes/u-s-backed-military-contractors-are-returning-to-iraq-in-droves.html
202
20
Many Americans may think of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan as a being in the past. It’s a time most American’s aren’t eager to return to — this was made clear in the recent debate on the merits of putting U.S. “boots on the ground” to fight the Islamic State. Though it may seem that this discussion ended with the general consensus being a “no” to this kind of intervention in Syria and Iraq, the reality is very different.

A new Pentagon report delivered to Congress details how the United States is quietly building up troops in Iraq by sending both uniformed soldiers and private military contractors to the troubled country. Between January 2015 and January 2016, the number of U.S. troops rose from 2,300 to 3,700.

That growth, however, doesn’t even compare to the explosive growth of private forces in Iraq, whose numbers rose eight times from 250 in 2015 to 2,028 today. Speaking to Defense One, political scientist Rick Brennan says, “If you look at the size and the composition of the forces that have been deployed…that’s changed markedly in the past year.”

Granted, many of the private contractors in Iraq are not necessarily performing security services, but the rapid expansion of their numbers over the past year is telling. Though it is a practice that became convention decades ago, the U.S. military’s reliance on contractors to perform certain logistical roles — from construction and upkeep to administration — is now crucial for virtually all U.S. operations.

In short, these private military contractors, regardless of their current function, are being positioned as a step to ease the return of a large-scale United States military presence in Iraq. And the Pentagon isn’t the only one with private contractors in Iraq; the State Department, among others, have 5,800 contractors working in Iraq seperately. So much for the end of the war in Iraq.

The spiking deployment of private military contractors in Iraq should be alarming for another reason. Perhaps the most readily example to point to is the tragic Nisour Square massacre in which Blackwater employees gunned down 14 civilians in 2007. Thanks in large part to U.S. law, private contractors are granted near immunity from prosecution under local Iraqi law and from the U.S. military. As such, the four men involved in Nisour Sqare nearly escaped justice. Their convictions were, in fact, the first of their kind.

If the Nisour Square massacre should teach us anything, it is that private military contractors should not be performing the types of duties traditionally reserved for uniformed U.S. soldiers.

Then why does the U.S. rely so heavily on private military contractors? It is essentially a matter of convenience. After the protracted and controversial wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, the U.S. public has become adamantly opposed to direct forms of military action — just look to the “boots on the ground” discussion this past fall. That is doubly true for any proposal of action in Iraq, where, according to official figures from the Department of Defense, 4,425 American soldiers lost their lives and another 32,000 were wounded. Who can blame Americans for wanting to leave that in the past?

Sadly, this attitude has only pushed real discussion out of the mainstream, leaving the Pentagon to its own devices. As the unstable situation in Iraq, arguably created by U.S. military intervention, persists, the Pentagon will lean on the messy services of private military contractors — some little more than mercenaries — to fight the U.S.’ battles in Iraq and elsewhere.

Photo Credit: jamesdale10 / Wikimedia Commons