http://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-newspaper/install-warning-signs-for-all-speedbreakers-says-high-court/story-dMlGVWQ5sGXbruazLr9MxL.html
130
13
NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court has taken note of surprise speedbreakers that prove dangerous for motorists plying on city roads, and ordered corrective action to prevent accidents.

After directing the removal of illegal speedbreakers, the court has now called for the installation of proper signage ahead of authorised ones to warn on coming motorists .“Authorised speed breakers should be accompanied by proper signage as per the guidelines,” a bench of Justice BD Ahmed and Justice Ashutosh Kumar said.

The court’s direction came after it was informed that many speedbreakers in the capital do not conform to standards prescribed by the Indian Road Congress (IRC) and the Unified Traffic and Transportation Infrastructure [Planning & Engineering] Centre (UTTIPEC).

The IRC — an apex body of highway engineers — recommends that drivers be warned of the presence of speedbreakers through the installation of suitable advance warning signs.

The words ‘speedbreaker’ should be printed on them clearly, it says.

The Road Accident Report -2015, published by the ministry of road transport & highways, showed that speedbreakers accounted for 2.2% mishaps (11,084 instances) and 2.3% fatalities (3,409 instances) of the total number of cases in the country last year. In Delhi, they caused 41 accidents—resulting in the death of six people and hospitalisation of 27 others.

The city traffic police had earlier cited a field survey identifying 89 locations featuring un authorised speed breakers, and another 53 areas where they were of faulty design. Following this, the court directed the Municipal Corporation of Delhi, Delhi Development Authority, Delhi Cantonment Board, traffic police and the public works department to ensure that all the speedbreakers in their limits conform to IRC or UTTIPEC specifications. They were also asked to remove the unauthorised ones.

The bench warned that non-compliance of its direction will result in“coercive action” against the agencies concerned.

The court was hearing two public interest litigations filed in this regard. It has posted the matter for further hearing on November 30.