http://en.farsnews.com/newstext.aspx?nn=13950724000582
203
20
Foreign Policy

Parliament Speaker's Advisor Blasts US for Destabilizing Region

TEHRAN (FNA)- Senior Advisor to the Iranian Parliament Speaker Hossein Amir Abdollahian blasted the US for its military presence in the Middle East, and said Washington's meddling has deteriorated the regional crises.

"Concurrent with Yemen, the US intends to help and rescue the ISIL in Iraq’s Mosul and help to their immediate transfer to Syria,” Amir Abdollahian wrote on his Telegram.

He underlined that the recent US warship's attack on Yemeni popular forces which has taken place with the aim of preventing Saudi Arabia’s evident military and political defeat in Yemen has made the region more unstable.

Amir Abdollahian said that the terrorists' had been fully defeated in Aleppo, but the US intervened to rescue them on the pretext of restoring ceasefire in Syria.

"When US speaks about Plan 2 it means resorting to force which is the White House’s strategic mistake towards Syria; therefore we warn the advocates of terrorism to think about the negative consequences of their behavior and quit massacring people of region by supporting the Takfiri terrorists,” Amir Abdollahian added.

In relevant remarks on Monday, Secretary of Iran's Supreme National Security Council (SNSC) Ali Shamkhani in a meeting with Alexander Lavrentiev, Russian President Vladimir Putin's special envoy on Syria, blasted the US for its indifference and silence towards the massacre of the Yemeni civilians.

"Washington's silence over the crimes of Al Salman (the Saudi royal family) and massacre of the defenseless people of Yemen that are done by means of modern US weaponry is another clear indication of the US negligence towards human rights and lives," Shamkhani said.

Iran's top security official, meantime, pointed to the passive stance of the US and the West vis-à-vis initiatives by Iran, Russia, Syria and resistance front in the war on terrorism, and said, "The show-offs by the western media to cover-up their double-standards in confrontation with terrorism have come to their expiry date and the world public opinion has become aware of such approaches."

Reports from Yemen's capital said on Saturday that over 700 people were killed or wounded in massive air raids by the Saudi-led coalition warplanes.

The airstrikes targeted a hall where people were paying their last respects to the father of Yemen's Interior Minister Jalal Al-Rouyshan who is also the chief of staff of former President Ali Abdullah Salih.

A second strike hit exactly the same region as people rushed to aid those injured in the first round of air assault.

Also, the Saudi warplanes staged massive airstrikes on a ceremony on the house of Sheikh Abu Shwareb, inflicting tens of casualties on the civilians who had gathered for a ceremony at his residence.

The airstrikes killed at least 213 people, and wounded more than 534.

Saudi Arabia has been striking Yemen since March 2015 to restore power to fugitive president Mansour Hadi, a close ally of Riyadh. The Saudi-led aggression has so far killed at least 11,300 Yemenis, including hundreds of women and children.

Despite Riyadh's claims that it is bombing the positions of the Ansarullah fighters, Saudi bombers are flattening residential areas and civilian infrastructures.

According to several reports, the Saudi-led air campaign against Yemen has driven the impoverished country towards humanitarian disaster.