http://www.cspdailynews.com/industry-news-analysis/corporate-news/articles/farm-stores-open-first-site-outside-florida
202
20
HOUSTON -- Farm Stores, a chain of drive-thru convenience stores operating in Florida, is making its first foray out of the Sunshine State, with plans to open a store in the Houston area by first-quarter 2017, reported The Houston Business Journal.

Farm Stores--a hybrid of a small grocery store, bakery and quick-service restaurant--is a drive-thru retail concept that allows consumers to purchase products without having to leave their car.

The stores offer popular grocery brands and household items--including proprietary Farm Stores products--as well as prepared foods and fresh baked goods. With approximately 80 stores in Florida, Coconut Grove, Fla.-based Farm Stores has been operating stores since 1957. It began franchising in early 2015.

The retailer plans to open as many as 50 locations in the Houston area, according to CSPedia, Chicago-based Winsight’s c-store database. It also plans to open up to 50 sites in New Jersey and to expand in Tampa Bay in Florida, the company told CSPedia.

Farm Stores plans to open three Houston-area stores in 2017, Robert Betts, franchisee and area developer for Farm Stores, told the Business Journal.

The company is in the midst of lease negotiations in Houston and expects to open a location in Katy, Texas, he said.

Most Farm Stores are 600 to 650 square feet, Betts said, and sell standard food items such as baked breads, prepared meals, milk, diapers, coffee, ice cream, cleaning supplies and more.

“It’s all based on convenience,” he told the newspaper. “Houston lends itself well to this. It’s a commuter environment. It rains, it’s hot, it’s very crowded and it’s full of traffic, so everyone is looking for convenience.”

Once Farm Stores has its first Houston-area store open, Betts said the company plans to launch an iOS- and Android-supported mobile app that will allow customers to place orders online and for pickup.

The company is planning to expand in New Jersey because many people often travel between southern Florida and the Northeast, creating familiarity with Farm Stores, COO Maurice Bared told NJ.com. Also, New Jersey's sometimes harsh winter weather can make people dread stepping outdoors, he said.