http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3839274/Sandy-Hook-parents-lawsuit-against-Bushmaster-AR-15-rifle-manufacturers-tossed-court-appeal-cards.html
202
20
A lawsuit filed against the manufacturer of the Bushmaster AR-15 rifle by the families of children massacred in the Sandy Hook shooting has been thrown out of court.

The families had attempted to sue Remington for promoting the military-style gun to civilians after Adam Lanza used it kill 20 children and six staff at Sandy Hook Elementary School.

But Superior Court Judge Barbara Bellis threw out the suit on Friday after ruling the gunmaker was protected under federal law,The Hartford Courant reported.

Dismissed: Superior Court Judge Barbara Bellis dismissed a suit by families of the Sandy Hook victims Friday. They were suing Remington for promoting the AR-15 rifle to civilians

Deadly: The plaintiffs argued that the weapon (pictured) used to kill their children in 2012 was made for professionals, and promoting it to civilians acted as negligence on Remington's part

Family: Family members such as these (pictured at a news conference in 2013) were told Remington was protected by a 2005 law signed in by George W Bush

Bellis agreed with Remington's lawyers that the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act (PLCAA), 'squarely' covers the suit.

The law, signed into effect by President George W Bush in 2005, was intended to stop victims of mass shootings suing manufacturers, distributors and sellers, Bellis said in her 54-page ruling.

It says they cannot be sued provided 'the product functioned as designed and intended.'

That, she says, means Remington Outdoor Co is immune from prosecution in this instance.

So are distributor Camfour Holding LLC, and the Riverview Sales store, where Lanza's AR-15 was bought by his mother.

Friday's outcome didn't come as a surprise to UCLA law professor Adam Winkler.

'Federal law effectively immunizes gun makers from liability for criminal misuse of their guns,' he told the Courant.

'This lawsuit was based on an innovative but risky legal theory that attempted to carve out an exception to this federal law.'

The families had argued that Remington's advertising campaigns - which promoted the gun as an essential item for masculine civilian shooters rather than the professionals for which it was originally made - made them partially liable.

The suit had attempted to target exceptions in the PLCAA focused on 'negligent entrustment of a firearm' - that is, it accused the plaintiffs of negligence for supplying Lanza with a gun he was unfit to use.

Had the case moved on to the next stage, the plaintiffs would have outlined exactly how Remington promoted the weapon, ahead of a 2018 trial.

But Bellis ruled that neither of the definitions of negligence in Connecticut law or the PLCAA fit this case.

Lanza used the AR-15 owned by his mother, Nancy Lanza, whom he killed with a different gun prior to his rampage. She had given no indication of fearing for her life, relatives said.

Protected: The law says that manufacturers, distributors and sellers of guns cannot be sued so long as the gun functions as intended. That covers the Sandy Hook AR-15 (pictured), Bellis said

Bellis also ruled the plaintiffs did not establish a 'consumer, competitor, or other commercial relationship' between themselves and Remington, and so could not sue under the Connecticut Unfair Trade Practices Act (CUTPA).

The families' attorney, Josh Koskoff, told the Courant that they would appeal the ruling, and that they 'deserve' to have their case heard.

'To lose a motion in court is disappointing and tough to take but it is peanuts compared to what they have lost and they will fight until the end to get their day in court,' he said.

Connecticut Democratic senators Richard Blumenthal and Chris Murphy, along with Democratic Congresswoman Elizabeth Etsy, released a statement objecting to the PLCAA.

'This misapplied and misguided law protects gun manufacturers from liability even for dangerous and irresponsible practices,' they said.

They also described it as 'an unprecedented and indefensible legal shield available to no other American industry.'

Bellis had rejected an earlier motion by for a dismissal by Remington lawyers in April.