http://calgaryherald.com/news/crime/father-of-taber-school-shooting-victim-remembers-pain-of-tragedy
202
20
As Canadians reel from the tragedy of a school shooting in northern Saskatchewan on Friday, an Alberta father who lost his son in a school shooting nearly 17 years ago recalled the horror of that day.

“It’s hard to imagine a more painful situation for people than losing a child,” said Rev. Dale Lang.

“It’s something no one should ever have to go through. Now there’s more people going through the same thing.”

On April 28, 1999, a 14-year-old student walked into Taber’s W.R. Myers high school and opened fire with a sawn-off .22 calibre rifle, killing Lang’s 17-year-old son Jason and injuring another boy. The incident took place eight days after the Columbine high school massacre in Colorado.

Lang remembered the tension and confusion as he was told over the phone that Jason had been rushed to hospital. All he knew was that it was “serious”.

When he discovered it was a school shooting, Lang was shocked.

“When you live in Canada, you don’t expect to hear anybody ever say that to you,” he said.

“It’s hard to imagine you’re actually sitting there, waiting to hear news about something so unbelievable.”

At least four people were killed Friday in La Loche, Sask., when a shooter opened fire inside a school in the remote Dene town of 3,000. According to the Canadian Press, the community’s fire chief said a boy with a gun was in custody.

CP also reported that the school shooting was preceded by a shooting at a residence.

When Lang’s son died, the former Anglican minister and his wife turned to their faith. Despite their pain and anger, they tried to find forgiveness for their son’s killer, who was the victim of severe bullying from a young age.

“It didn’t make me angry at him, it made me feel sad for him,” said Lang.

“Our faith allowed us to forgive this young man, as early on as the memorial service for our son,” which was just five days after Jason’s death.

Lang became a public speaker on the subject, telling audiences across Canada of the importance of healing and forgiveness. He also heard from other parents who had lost children, and their own experiences grappling with sadness, anger and forgiveness.

“The problem will be if you can’t reach that place of forgiveness, then you’re going to get stuck in that place of anger and bitterness,” said Lang.

“Forgiveness is not saying it’s okay or acceptable, it’s saying that I’m choosing to let go of this for my own health and to move on in life.”

While the La Loche investigation continues, Lang sympathized with the family and friends of victims who will now have their own difficult grief process to work through after another school tragedy.

“It’s really bad that we have people ending up in places where they don’t get the help and support they need and they end up doing something horrible like this.”

tslambert@postmedia.com