http://www.dailyexcelsior.com/india-pak-must-come-together-to-face-terror-threat-farooq/
203
20
Excelsior Correspondent

JAMMU, Jan 23: National Conference president and former Chief Minister of the State Dr Farooq Abdullah said today that ISIS (Islamic State of Iraq and Syria) was not only a threat to India or Jammu and Kashmir but the entire world and India must be prepared to meet the menace of the terror outfit.

Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of two functions here, Dr Abdullah said the ISIS menace was not only confined to India but it was spreading its tentacles all over the world. “We need to be very alert against the outfit,” he said.

Asserting that India and Pakistan must come together to fight terrorism, Farooq said first it was a school and now it was Bacha Khan University that had been targeted in Peshawar, Pakistan by the militants, which show signs of terrorism in the neighbouring country also.

“We too have faced terrorist attack in Pathankot recently and what will happen again we don’t know as an Alto taxi has been hijacked by three persons and its driver was missing,” he said and hoped for peaceful Republic Day celebrations.

The Taliban militants had massacred 21 students and teachers in Bacha Khan University of Peshawar while seven security personnel were killed by the militants in Pathankot airbase attack. Four militants were killed in Bacha Khan University and six in Pathankot airbase.

France President Francois Hollande is also coming to India to watch Republic Day celebrations.

“We can hope for peace in the country on the occasion of Hollande’s visit and Republic Day celebrations. Hopefully, it will be a good visit,” Farooq said.

On his meeting with People’s Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti at her Fairview residence in Srinagar recently, Farooq said it was purely a courtesy call to offer condolences to Mehbooba ji and her mother on the death of Mufti Mohammad Sayeed.

“No politics was discussed in the meeting,” he said, adding “may be next time when I meet Mehbooba, we discuss the politics”.

Replying to another question on the Government formation, the National Conference president said it was up to the PDP and BJP to end uncertainty on it.

“The National Conference has already made it clear that it has no number to form the Government. It was up to the PDP and BJP to form next Government in the State and end uncertainty and the Governor’s Rule,” Dr Abdullah said.

Meanwhile, former Chief Minister Omar Abdullah has said he also does not want People’s Democratic Party and Bharatiya Janata Party Government in Jammu and Kashmir but certainly wants an end to the uncertainty.

About Tassaduq Mufti, son of late Mufti Mohammad Sayeed, Abdullah said he was slowly making his debut in to the turbulent politics in Jammu and Kashmir. However, he said, elections will be better than uncertainty.

On twitter, Omar wrote: “it’s been 2 weeks since 1.25 crore people of J&K were placed under Central rule because of one party’s inability to lead. How much longer? Actually I don’t want a PDP/BJP Government. I want an end to the uncertainty. Even elections will be better than this.”

In reply to a tweet which asked: “is Tassaduq Mufti a Rajiv Gandhi in the making? Omar replied: “an introduction to the man slowly making his debut in to the turbulent politics of J&K”.

Related

Download Daily Excelsior Apps Now:

Share With