http://woai.iheart.com/articles/local-news-119078/demonstrations-planned-as-trump-touches-down-15190176/
130
13
All of the emotions of this election season will be on full display in San Antonio today, as Donald Trump touches down in the city for a noon time fundraiser at the Grand Hyatt Hotel downtown, News Radio 1200 WOAI reports.



At the same time as the fundraiser, the Democratic Party will hold a news conference down the street, with figures like U.S. Rep Joaquin Castro (D-San Antonio) denouncing Trump as 'unfit to hold office.'



"While Donald Trump has been talking about building walls, Hillary Clinton has been talking about building an infrastructure of opportunity," Castro said of Trump's campaign.



Also, a group called 'Never Trump San Antonio' plans a rowdy protest in front of the Grand Hyatt during the fundraiser.



"We, the people of San Antonio, reject the vicious sense of white supremacy, misogyny, victim blaming that Donald Trump is promoting," the group said on Facebook. "His ideals and views are contradictory to that of the community and he is not welcome in San Antonio."



Not even one of the organizers of the rally is offering a ringing endorsement of Trump and his campaign.



Developer Gene Powell, who has been a major Trump bundler throughout his campaign and who hosted the very successful Trump fundraiser at the Oak Hills Country Club in July, released a statement about Trump and his role in Trump's campaign:



“I am deeply disappointed and offended by the comments made by Mr. Trump on the video released on Friday. However, I made a commitment to the campaign and I have one obligation left to the campaign and that is a fundraising event tomorrow in San Antonio and I will fulfill that obligation as promised.”

- Gene Powell, October 10, 2016



Cal Jillson, a political analyst at SMU, tells News Radio there is a reason why today's fundraiser is closed to the public and to the media.



"There are many Republicans who have reservations about Trump but who would like to support the party, who if they could slip in through the back door, would be a lot more comfortable," Jillson said.



"His moneyed supporters would be much more comfortable if he had private fundraisers, instead of public events."



Another major Trump bundler, attorney Tony Buzbee, who is best known as the lawyer who got Rick Perry off the hook following h is 2014 abuse of office indictment, was more concise, writing on Facebook: "Sorry Donald, I'm done with you. Completely."



Trump has another fundraiser set for later today in Dallas, ahead of a public appearance set for tonight in Florida.

IMAGE; GETTY