http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2016/05/18/syrian-kurds-accused-of-ethnic-cleansing-and-killing-opponents/
202
20
A leader of Jaish al-Islam, the Saudi-backed group, is one of the three main negotiators for the opposition in the Geneva talks. Yet the group has been accused of making sectarian threats and of not tolerating dissent in the areas it controls, like much of Eastern Ghouta near Damascus.

It is now being fought by another group that is parts of the talks, the Failaq al-Rahman Brigade. It is seen as linked to the “moderate” Islamist Muslim Brotherhood, but has joined forces with elements of the local branch of al-Qaeda, Jabhat al-Nusra, to challenge Jaish al-Islam's dominance.

Among the dead are Nabil al-Daas, the last gynaecologist working in the enclave, who was hit in cross-fire.

In the north, the fighting north of Aleppo between anti-Assad rebel groups, some of them supported by the United States, and the YPG-led Syrian Democratic Forces has continued despite the ceasefire that has held in some other parts of the country.

The role of the SDF has become the most complex of all the international dilemmas facing the international community.

It was forged with western help to fight Isil. It is led by the YPG, but also contains some smaller Sunni Arab rebel groups and a Christian Syrian militia, and after recent gains has reached 20 miles from Raqqa, Isil’s capital.

However, the YPG has also been accused of human rights abuses. Amnesty International accused it in October of forcibly evicting Arabs and Turkmens from liberated areas and demolishing the houses, or even villages - claims it strongly denied.

Meanwhile, the YPG’s parent organisation, the PKK, which operates north of the border, has resumed its war against the Turkish state - a Nato ally of the US - and filmed itself shooting down a Turkish military helicopter last week.

In the north-west of Syria, the SDF and YPG are not getting support from the Americans but from the Russians, who see them as a useful ally in the fight against the non-Isil rebels, including Jabhat al-Nusra.

In one particularly gruesome consequence of the fighting, the YPG paraded a flat-bed lorry carrying 50 bodies of rebels killed in fighting through the streets of the Kurdish city of Afrin last month.