http://www.southsudannation.com/jonyang-community-jc-in-unmiss-juba-pocs-refute-kiirs-support/
202
20
Press Statement

Jonyang Community (JC) in PoCs, Juba

Date 28th/1/2016

The Jonyang Community in UNMISS protection of Civilian Site in Juba is hereby denouncing the claimed of the media circulation bearing the fake and barbaric statements on defaming and tarnished the name of Jonyang community by saying that “we the Jonyang community in the PoC are supporting president Kiir order of creation of 28 states, and are behind the governor of western Bieh”.

This was posted into social media and disseminated all over to the outside world on 16/1/2016 at 10: 00 pm. On 21 the same January 2016 the same people went on to say by joking that “I L/CPL James Kuol Dhuor, the chairman of Jonyang Community, we are supporting the government, James Kok Ruea Oyee, Magok Rundial Oyee and Michael Mario Dhuor Oyee”.

Therefore, the Jonyang Community before God and before Nuer Community in general and Fangak Community in particular would like to be clear to all readers and listeners that these people were just trying to defame the chairman of Jonyang and Community at large with the reason best known to them; James Kok Ruea and his associates are like puppets in our eyes, we can’t support them.

It was not true; it was done by two men, Riir Diang Ngudeng the doer and the paramount chief Biel Machar Tot, the planner.

On 27th /1/2016 the Fangak Community in general held a meeting on this issue of defamation and blackmailing of the Jonyang community; both Riir Diang and Biel Machar had confessed and we had also pardoned them because they knew nothing on what they were doing. They were using this as a method of concocting the differences in the Community of Fangak which will not come up to the fore century.

The Jonyang Community is a peaceful community which couldn’t betray the thousand men, children and women who were massacred in Juba in cold blood by Salva Kiir and his all allies including James Kok.

We are totally against 28 states which rob us of our land and it resources; we can’t be slaves of our own to just accept the calamity, we will fight for it until the last man of ours.

The trustworthy men of Jonyang Militants and Politicians are in combat front to fight common man’s right in south Sudan where rule of law need to be in place as a matter of struggle.

We would like to conclude that our community unity is certain and forgiveness is crucial method in the family, we have forgiven Riir and Biel Machar, bear with us “we are not part of 28 states”.

Thank for your understanding.

Sign by ………… Sign by………………..

Yoal Gatkuoth Majok Rambang Tai Riak

Deputy Chairman of JC SG of Jonyang Community