http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/secret-flight-passed-over-british-7305379
202
20
New claims: A secret US flight passed over the UK in a bid to intercept American whistleblower Edward Snowden

A secret flight by the United States passed over British airspace in a bid to capture fugitive whistleblower Edward Snowden , it's been claimed.

The plane allegedly passed over the Outer Hebrides, the Highlands and Aberdeenshire three years ago in rendition after being dispatched from the east coast of America.

It is said to have happened on June 24, 2013, after an arrest warrant was issued by the CIA , and as the NSA spy flew from Hong Kong to Moscow, the National reported.

Snowden is described as a traitor by British and American intelligence services after leaking huge amounts of data relating to mass surveillance.

Scottish investigative journalist Duncan Campbell, who is behind the claims, says flight N977GA, a 20-seater plane, was travelling above the standard aviation height of 45,000ft without a set flight plan.

Albanpix Flight: This is the N977GA aircraft, belonging to the United States Department of Justice, which allegedly flew over Scotland

The plane was allegedly held in Copenhagen where Danish authorities were asked to use America's Espionage Act to arrest Snowden if he arrived there, new documents revealed.

It was thought at the time Snowden was attempting to avoid extradition by flying from Moscow to South America.

The plane was previously identified as the same one used by hate preacher Abu Hamza to fly from America to Britain for a terror trial.

Read more: Edward Snowden rubbishes claim that ISIS video of French massacre terrorists has mysterious encrypted code

Questions have now been raised about whether the police, aviation or political authorities in Scotland were made aware of the flight path.

Scotland's former First Minister Alex Salmond is among critics demanding answers from the UK Government about the case.

Google Maps Flight path: The plane allegedly passed over the Outer Hebrides, the Highlands and Aberdeenshire three years ago

He told the National: “As a matter of course and courtesy, any country, particularly an ally, should be open about the purposes of a flight and the use of foreign airspace or indeed airports.

“What we need to know now is, was this information given to the UK Government at the time. If so, then why did they give permission? If not, then why not?"

The UK and Scottish Government have both declined to comment.

Read more: Edward Snowden is being 'bombarded with nude pictures' and he's getting sick of it

A spokesman for the Scottish Government told MailOnline: “There is already an ongoing Police Scotland investigation, directed by the Lord Advocate.

"This investigation will seek to gather all available evidence of rendition flights using Scottish airports.

"As this is a live investigation it would be inappropriate to comment further.”

Snowden remains in an undisclosed location in Russia.