http://en.apa.az/xeber_azerbaijan_urges_int___l_community_to_cond_242829.html
203
20
Hajiyev said that Armenia, in contravention of the ceasefire agreement reached on 5 April 2016, continues to aggravate the situation on the line of contact between Armenian and Azerbaijani troops, fire at Azerbaijani civilians and civilian facilities and avoid negotiations over the conflict’s settlement.

The Azerbaijani side has thoroughly informed the international community about the planned provocations of Armenia, the spokesman said, noting that Armenia will be responsible for retaliatory strikes Azerbaijani armed forces will inflict on the enemy’s military facilities in order to ensure the safety of the civilian population along the contact line.

“We share the concerns of the US Department of State and Russia’s Foreign Ministry over the recent escalation along the line of contact between Armenian and Azerbaijani troops,” Hajiyev said.

He stressed that starting from April 27 evening till the morning on April 28, Armenian armed forces shelled settlements, as well as Azerbaijan army’s positions in the country’s Terter and Aghdam districts.

As a result of the violation by Armenia of humanitarian law, one Azerbaijani civilian was killed, seven injured, and about 20 social facilities and property were damaged in Terter and Aghdam districts, the spokesman said.

Moreover, a large number of social facilities and property were damaged as a result the shelling by Armenian armed forces since 2 April 2016, according to Hajiyev.

He noted that the intentional use of cluster munitions by Armenian forces against the civilian population of Azerbaijan compactly residing along the line of contact has no military purpose, but is directed against civilians.

Hajiyev went on to say that parts of unexploded cluster munitions pose a threat to civilians’ lives and property.

“The attempts of Armenian armed forces to massacre our civilians through inhumane means is part of a planned and systematic policy of terror carried out by Armenia against Azerbaijan on the state level,” the foreign ministry spokesman said.

Yerevan's official statement on damaged done to the civilian population and facilities in the occupied territories of Azerbaijan under Armenia's control, is a lie, Hajiyev said, noting that there are no civilians in these areas.

The Nagorno-Karabakh conflict entered its modern phase when the Armenian SRR made territorial claims against the Azerbaijani SSR in 1988.

A fierce war broke out between Azerbaijan and Armenia over the Nagorno-Karabakh region of Azerbaijan. As a result of the war, Armenian armed forces occupied some 20 percent of Azerbaijani territory which includes Nagorno-Karabakh and seven adjacent districts (Lachin, Kalbajar, Aghdam, Fuzuli, Jabrayil, Gubadli and Zangilan), and over a million Azerbaijanis became refugees and internally displaced people.

The military operations finally came to an end when Azerbaijan and Armenia signed a ceasefire agreement in Bishkek in 1994.

Dealing with the settlement of the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict is the OSCE Minsk Group, which was created after the meeting of the OSCE Ministerial Council in Helsinki on 24 March 1992. The Group’s members include Azerbaijan, Armenia, Russia, the United States, France, Italy, Germany, Turkey, Belarus, Finland and Sweden.

Besides, the OSCE Minsk Group has a co-chairmanship institution, comprised of Russian, US and French co-chairs, which began operating in 1996.

Resolutions 822, 853, 874 and 884 of the UN Security Council, which were passed in short intervals in 1993, and other resolutions adopted by the UN General Assembly, PACE, OSCE, OIC, and other organizations require Armenia to unconditionally withdraw its troops from Nagorno-Karabakh.