http://thezimbabwemail.com/headline-5845-expelled-mdc-renewal-mps-moaning-over-biti-betrayal.html
130
13
SOME of the MDC Renewal Team legislators whose constituencies were declared vacant following their expulsion from parliament have said they are bitter and feel betrayed over Tendai Biti’s relocation to the United States.

Biti, who is widely seen as the de facto leader of the MDC Renewal Team, is reported to have joined the Centre for Global Development (CGD) in the United States as a visiting fellow for an unspecified period.

This move by the former Finance minister has apparently courted the wrath of the former legislators who strongly feel betrayed and dubbed by the firebrand politician.

“Biti was aware of his move to the United States of America long way back before the breakaway way from Tsvangirai,” said one former Bulawayo based legislator who refused to be named for fear of victimisation.

“We honestly do not know why he hoodwinked us to join his party when he knew that he was going to abandon the ship before the voyage has not even started.

“Now I have lost my only source of income and I am now in serious debt. How will I repay the vehicle loan which parliament advanced me? He (Biti) is now enjoying and living comfortably in the United

States.”

The former legislator, who claimed to have been recruited by Biti, said he was still weighing options whether to re-join the MDC-T or switch to the proposed UMDC, an envisaged coalition between the MDC renewal and the Welshman Ncube -led MDC.

“I am really confused on which next political move to follow,” he said.

“With the departure of Biti and our expulsion from parliament, coupled with chaos in the Ncube camp, I do not think the UMDC project will stand on a solid ground.”

Another expelled legislator said Biti’s departure would affect the Renewal Team’s Constitutional Court challenge which is expected to be heard on Tuesday next week ahead of the 16 April nomination court deadline. Biti is representing the expelled MPs.

“I think it was unfair for Biti to agree to represent us when he knows he is leaving the country,” said the MP.

“Of course he might assign other lawyers to handle the case but it would have been fair for him to indicate to us his imminent departure. We could have sourced for our own lawyers whom we have confidence in.”