http://www.israelnationalnews.com/News/News.aspx/211540
203
20
An horrific children's play in which a seven-year-old Palestinian girl "stabbed Jews" took place at a recent event partly funded by Interpal, a UK charity supported by Labour party head Jeremy Corbyn and MPs of his party, reports the UK Daily Mail on Thursday.

Footage of the play, in which the girl pretends to stab two boys dressed as IDF soldiers who "shoot" her before a boy in a mask "shoots" them back with a toy semi-automatic weapon, was aired last week on Hamas TV.

The Interpal logo is clearly visible on a banner in the background of the play, which took place as part of the "Palestine Festival for Children and Education" in Gaza, partially funded by Interpal.

The Daily Mail revealed that Interpal donated a full 6,800 British Pounds (just under $10,000) to the festival, which was organized by the University College of Applied Sciences in Gaza City.

Interpal is banned in the US and Israel as a terrorist organization because of its active funding of Hamas. However, the UK-based group is still allowed to operate freely in Britain.

In response to the revelation on Interpal's role in the terror inciting festival, the UK Charity Commission said it was investigating the incident "as a matter of priority," before deciding on regulatory actions.

The revelation comes even as Corbyn's Labour party is embroiled deeper than ever in scandal over anti-Semitic outbursts by its members.

Just on Thursday former London Mayor Ken Livingstone was suspended by the party, after he backed a Labor MP who was herself suspended for calling for the ethnic cleansing of Jews from Israel. In his comments, Livingstone said that Nazi leader Adolf Hitler "supported Zionism."

Corbyn's office declined to comment on the matter of the Interpal event on Wednesday night. He has spoken at numerous Interpal fundraisers, and he and his wife took a tour of Gaza in 2013 funded by Interpal.

Interpal excuses "not convincing"

Interpal for its part claimed it did not fund the blatant terror-inciting children's play, but rather "hosted some activities in Gaza City, as part of the larger event." It claimed it does not condone violence.

"Our logo was used in various materials for the festival, as we held our own activities as part of the larger umbrella of the festival in Gaza City. We did not support this particular play and did not have any involvement with it," said a spokesperson.

However, MPs rejected the explanation.

MP Jacob Rees-Mogg of the Conservative party told the Daily Mail, "I don't think that’s a very convincing defense."

"Interpal is not a reputable charity. This is deeply, deeply concerning. Labour MPs nod when the Prime Minister says something must be done to tackle anti-Semitism, but now is the time for action," he added.

"The reality is that many who see themselves as defenders of the Palestinian cause are far too close to those holding deeply racist and anti-Semitic views," said Conservative party MP Andrew Percy.

"It is absolutely disgusting that any charity should be involved in a festival of hate that radicalizes children to go and kill innocent Jews. This is yet another example of Jeremy Corbyn’s dodgy friends who are associated with very extreme individuals. It shows what a problem Labour has with anti-Semitism. They have got to start getting serious."