http://rinf.com/alt-news/editorials/americas-genocidal-wars/
202
20
by Stephen Lendman

(RINF) – America’s pure evil is unequaled by any previous regime in history – inflicting more harm on more people over a longer duration.

None match US ruthlessness. Centuries of slaughter reduced its native population to a small fraction of its original numbers.

Five centuries of slavery were horrific. Black Africans were captured, branded, chained, force-marched, beaten, encaged, and stripped of their humanity.

Around 100 million human beings were sold like cattle. Millions perished during the Middle Passage, packed into filthy coffin-sized spaces, filled with human excrement, victims of dysentery, smallpox and other epidemic-level diseases, women raped and beaten, others flogged or clubbed.

Anyone believed diseased was dumped overboard like garbage. Modern-day genocide continues in new forms. WW II and endless US wars following involved mass extermination, countless millions perishing from violence, starvation, preventable diseases and overall deprivation.

Civilians are treated as ruthlessly as combatants in all US wars. State-sponsored genocide reflects their barbarity, ongoing in multiple theaters now.

High crimes demanding accountability go unreported. Wars of aggression masquerade as humanitarian intervention, responsibility to protect and democracy building.

Unparalleled US hubris and arrogance threaten humanity’s survival. America is the world’s leading exponent of terrorism, ISIS and likeminded groups its creation, CIA operatives teaching their recruits the fine art of committing atrocities.

All US wars are waged lawlessly without mercy. John Kerry’s indictment of Daesh’s (ISIS) genocidal crimes belies its US creation, America bearing full responsibility for its existence and criminality.

On Thursday, Kerry ignored where blame lies, saying “(i)n my judgment, Daesh is responsible for genocide against groups in areas under its control, including Yazidis, Christians and Shia Muslims.”

“Daesh is genocidal by self-proclamation, by ideology, and by actions, in what it says, what it believes, and what it does.”

Its fighters are “also responsible for crimes against humanity and ethnic cleansing directed at these same groups, and in some cases also against Sunni Muslims, Kurds, and other minorities.”

Claiming “what (it) wants to erase, we must preserve” belies longstanding US imperial policy – waging endless wars of aggression, using ISIS and other terrorists as proxy foot soldiers, wanting all sovereign independent states replaced by pro-Western puppet ones, believing genocidal slaughter is a small price to pay.

Obama, Kerry, as well as other current and earlier top US officials are unindicted war criminals – guilty of the supreme crime against peace, responsible for genocidal mass murder.

Stephen Lendman lives in Chicago. He can be reached at [email protected]

His new book as editor and contributor is titled “Flashpoint in Ukraine: US Drive for Hegemony Risks WW III.”

http://www.claritypress.com/LendmanIII.html

Visit his blog site at sjlendman.blogspot.com.

Listen to cutting-edge discussions with distinguished guests on the Progressive Radio News Hour on the Progressive Radio Network.