http://www.senate.gov.ph/press_release/2016/0125_marcos1.asp
203
20
Press Release

January 25, 2016 MARCOS CAUTIONS DOJ: MAMASAPANO PROBE MAY GO IN THE WAY OF MAGUINDANAO MASSACRE CASE Justice delayed is justice denied. This was the message of Senator Ferdinand "Bongbong" Marcos Jr. who cautioned the Department of Justice (DoJ) that if it fails to fast-track the preliminary investigation on the Mamasapano encounter, the death of the 44 Special Action Force (SAF) personnel will go the way of other controversial cases that are still pending before the courts. The senator cited in particular the case of the Maguindanao massacre, which resulted in the death of 58 victims including 34 journalists who were part of a convoy that was set to cover a routine story on the filing of the certificate of candidacy of Toto Mangudadatu in 2009. "The fact that this controversial case, which has been declared as single deadliest event for journalists, has not been resolved until now does not bode well in terms of gauging the justice system in the country. I remain hopeful that the case will finally be resolved and that those responsible will finally be held accountable, and this is my same hope for the SAF 44 case," he said. Marcos also expressed fear that if charges are not filed at the soonest possible time, justice will further elude the families of the SAF men since it will be overtaken by the heat of the election campaign and the subsequent change of administration. The senator also called on the government to look into allegations of the families that they are not receiving the benefits and support promised to them by the administration after the Mamasapano clash despite Malacañang's claim of having given them millions of pesos as aid. "Objectively speaking, I think the least that the government could do is sincerely look into these complaints by the families because they would not be simply making these allegations without any basis. Their loved ones made the ultimate sacrifice of offering their lives to complete their mission, their commitment to their country. It is only right to honor their memories by making sure that their loved ones are properly cared for," he added.