http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-asia-35397768
202
20
Image copyright AP Image caption Security was tight as students arrived at the campus on Monday

Pakistan's Bacha Khan University briefly reopened its doors on Monday, days after more than 20 people were killed in an attack by suspected Taliban militants.

Students held a condolence gathering on the campus and also staged a peace march to Charsadda city centre.

Administrators held talks and later said that the university would stay closed. They will meet again next week.

Four gunmen opened fire on students and staff at the university last Wednesday.

A university spokesman told reporters that a meeting of the faculty on Monday had decided to keep the university closed for various reasons. These included the concerns of the parents, repairs to the building following the attack, and plans to establish a police post on the campus.

Vigils, and protests condemning the attack, were held in Charsadda, Peshawar and other places in Pakistan last week.

The incident took place more than a year after a school massacre by the Taliban in nearby Peshawar, which prompted nationwide mourning and outrage.

Image copyright EPA Image caption Students held a rally at the university, condemning the attack

Survivor recalls 'horrible and wild attack'

How the attack unfolded

Why can't Pakistan stop the militants?

Media caption Footage shows the inside of Bacha Khan University after the violence

Initially, it was not clear which group carried out the attack - one Pakistani Taliban commander claimed involvement, but the group's main spokesman later denied this.

However, on Saturday a Pakistani army spokesman said the attack was masterminded by Khalifa Omar Mansoor, a Pakistani Taliban commander, and managed by his deputy Qari Zakir.

In 2014, the Pakistani Taliban killed 130 students at a school in Peshawar.

Image copyright AP Image caption Four Pakistanis have been arrested and accused of being "facilitators" of the Charsadda attack

The four suspected militants in Wednesday's attack died in a gun battle with security forces.

An army spokesman has said that another four people, said to be "facilitators", have been arrested, including Qari Zakir's brother-in-law.

The group had housed the attackers, procured weapons for them, and bought a rickshaw which was used to travel to the university campus, officials said.

Deadly recent attacks in Pakistan

Image copyright AP Image caption Shia Muslims were attacked in Karachi in May