http://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/isis-issue-chilling-new-threat-7239578
202
20
Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

The video will start in

ISIS has released a terrifying new video featuring the final messages of the Paris attack terrorists - with a chilling threat to the UK.

The slickly-produced footage, released by Al-Hayat, the propaganda arm of the savage terror group, features the final words of the killers behind the deaths of 130 innocent people.

It includes recordings of warnings in French by those who took part in the massacre in Paris last November.

The footage was condemned today by Prime Minister David Cameron.

His official spokeswoman said: "We are in the process of examining this latest propaganda video, which is another move from an appalling terrorist group that is clearly in decline and in retreat."

Mastermind: Abdelhamid Abaaoud is among those featured in the latest video threat

Sick footage included in the clip shows more of the brutal executions carried out by the group.

Among the speakers is Abu Mujahid Al Baljiki, who says: “Oh misbelievers you are fighting Allah.

"You destroy our homes and you kill our fathers, our mothers, our sisters, our brothers and our children.

"What goes around comes around: blood by blood and destruction by destruction.

"You will find safety neither within your homes, nor within your dreams."

Threat: The latest video from terrorist killers ISIS targets the Prime Minister

At the end, it features footage of British RAF warplanes and, finally, David Cameron with the words: "Whoever stands in the ranks of kufr (unbelievers) will be a target for our swords and will fall in humiliation."

The latest threat from the group comes after the UK approved airstrikes in Syria as part of the ongoing conflict there.

One Arabic passage in the video, with translated French subtitles, says:“We tell you, oh crusaders, safety will be nothing more than a dream as long as you call airstrikes upon Muslims on the lands of the Caliphate.

"If you do not put an end to this coalition, then by the will of Allah, we will fight you from within the heart of your lands."

Read more: 'Jihadi Jack' family say he is victim of "avalanche of misinformation"

ISIS earlier released a chilling image portraying the Paris terror attackers as action movie-style heroes.

The poster, also released by Al-Hayat, features the faces of eight of the jihadis who slaughtered 130 innocent people on November 13.

Killers: Samy Amimour is shown in the chilling clip

Terror expert David Thomson and activist group Raqqa Is Being Slaughtered Silently say the poster is promoting a soon-to-be released video of the massacre.

It features the words 'Kill them wherever you find them' and in French and Arabic, as well as the words 'coming soon' - which may be a reference to further attacks on its enemies.

The co-ordinated attacks in Paris led to the slaughter of 130 people - including one British man.

Vote: The UK is warned after Parliament voted to approve airstrikes

There were six separate assaults, including two suicide attacks and a bombing near the Stade de France stadium and shootings at a restaurant.

Read more: Fears ISIS terrorists could soon print 3D guns for just £100 thanks to anarchist weapons fanatic

But the most devastating was a massacre inside the Bataclan theatre, where US rock band Eagles of Death Metal were playing to a packed crowd.

Haunting: A number of the voiceovers come from the Paris killers

Two gunmen first sprayed cafes outside the concert hall with machine-gun fire, then went inside.

Gunmen then opened fire on the panicked audience in a sickening prolonged assault and detonated suicide vests as police closed in.

ISIS claimed the attacks, saying they were revenge for French airstrikes on their fighters in the Middle East.

Terror: Foued Mohamed-Aggad is another part of the murderous cult

The Stade de France attackers included Bilal Hadfi, a 20-year-old French citizen who had been living in Belgium.

M. al-Mahmod, who had entered the EU with Syrian refugees via Greece and a bomber carrying a passport belonging to a 25-year-old Syrian named Ahmad al-Mohammad were also involved.

Brahim Abdeslam, a 31-year-old French member of the Molenbeek terror cell living in Belgium, carried out shootings in the 10th and 11th arrondissements.

Shortly afterwards, he blew himself up at the Comptoir Voltaire restaurant.

War: The ISIS footage pledges to carry on the fight against the coalition

The other attackers are believed to be Abdelhamid Abaaoud and an unidentified suspect.

Read more: ISIS releases movie-style poster of Paris attackers and more footage of French massacre is 'coming soon'

The three men who attacked the Bataclan theatre included Samy Amimour, a 28-year-old from Paris who fought in Yemen and was known to the intelligence services.

Reuters Devastating: The horrific attacks on Paris killed more than 100 people last year

Omar Ismail Mostefai, a 29-year-old from the Paris suburb of Courcouronnes, and Foued Mohamed-Aggad, a 23-year-old from Strasbourg, were also involved in the brutal slayings.

A few days after the attack, terror mastermind Abdelhamid Abaaoud was among a group of terrorists brought to bloody justice by the crack team of heavily-armed French police officers.