http://www.panarmenian.net/eng/news/212407/EU_reps_visits_to_Karabakhs_conflictaffected_areas_is_a_must_Armenia
203
20
Armenian President Serzh Sargsyan in Vienna met with the EU High Representative, Vice-President of the European Commission Federica Mogherini and US Secretary of State John Kerry

PanARMENIAN.Net - President Serzh Sargsyan on Monday, May 16 met with the EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy,Federica Mogherini, in Vienna.

At the meeting, the parties discussed issues concerning the security and the latest developments in the South Caucasus region. They mainly focused on the situation in the Nagorno Karabakh conflict zone following the 4-day clashes in early April, as well as steps to overcome the consequences, the President's office says.

Briefing Mogherini about Armenia's stance on the issue, President Sargsyan stressed the need for an unconditional adherence to the 1994 ceasefire agreement and the 1995 ceasefire consolidation agreements as a first step of creating favorable conditions for the conflict resolution.

Mogherini, in turn, reiterated that EU backs the efforts of the OSCE Minsk Group Co-chairs, expressing readiness to support the process of taking confidence-building measures. Sargsyan, in this regard, stressed the importance of the EU representatives' visits to conflict-affected areas.

Both sides expressed hope that the meetings to be mediated and attended by the foreign policy chiefs of OSCE MG co-chairing countries will help overcome the consequences of the current situation and establish stability and peace in the region.

Also, issues concerning the EU-Armenia bilateral relations and cooperation were high on the agenda.

The foreign policy chiefs of the OSCE Minsk Group co-chairing countries will participate in the meeting between the Armenian and Azerbaijani Presidents - Sargsyan and Ilham Aliyev - on the Nagorno Karabakh conflict, the U.S. Co-chair, ambassador James Warlick said.

The meeting is set to be held at 9:30 pm.

President Sargsyan will soon have a summit with the U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry.

The meeting with Kerry is to determine whether the Armenian President will meet with Aliyev or not.