http://insurancenewsnet.com/oarticle/updated-fire-ravages-apartment-building-in-janesville
203
20
May 15 -- JANESVILLE -- A cigarette disposed of in a plastic container led to a fire that caused an estimated $1 million damage to a 16-unit apartment building on Janesville's east side early Sunday morning, fire officials believe.

All 20 residents got out safely, although one person was transported for smoke inhalation after he returned to the building to rescue a cat, according to a Janesville Fire Department news release.

Firefighters later rescued the cat and other pets. Two cats were not accounted for, according to the release.

Firefighters attacked the blaze aggressively, but because the building had no firewalls in the attic, it spread too fast, said fire Capt. John McManus .

A dry, breezy night and old, dry wood in the attic contributed to the fire's spread, McManus said.

The fire consumed most of the roof.

Attic firewalls are required in newer buildings, but this one was older and probably satisfied building codes of its time, McManus said.

The building probably had never been remodeled. A remodeling building permit would have required installation of attic firewalls McManus said.

The fire was reported as a balcony fire at 5:48 a.m. at 1410 Morningside Drive . Neighboring fire departments sent help, and 74 firefighters were eventually involved, according to the news release.

Someone in the apartment where the fire started called 911 and was told to pull the building fire alarm, and that's why everyone got out safely, McManus said.

The entire building had fire, smoke and/or water damage.

Some of the tenants did not have insurance, and the American Red Cross was called to assist, according to the news release.

A Janesville city bus took residents to a temporary shelter at Bethel Baptist Church , 3300 Mount Zion Ave.

The building's owner is Village Green 2 Limited Partnership of Oshkosh , according to the fire department. Workers for the apartment group found empty apartments for all the displaced residents, McManus said.

Firefighters from the city of Milton , town of Turtle, city and town of Beloit , Footville , Brodhead and Oregon EMS assisted.

Smoke re-erupted Sunday afternoon, so firefighters covered the upper level with foam, McManus said.

___

(c)2016 The Janesville Gazette (Janesville, Wis.)

Visit The Janesville Gazette (Janesville, Wis.) at www.gazetteextra.com

Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.