http://www.telegraph.co.uk/travel/safaris-and-wildlife/Endangered-species-and-where-to-see-them/
130
13
The WWF has warned that the world is facing the biggest extinction since the dinosaurs, with seven in 10 mammals, birds, fish, amphibians and reptiles potentially wiped out in just 50 years.

This guide will help you plan an unforgettable wildlife encounter, while doing your bit for the world's most fragile species by supporting local tourism and conservation schemes.

Elephants

The greatest threats facing elephants today are poaching, conflict with humans, and habitat loss and degradation. Poaching in Africa and Asia is becoming more common.

Africa’s elephant population has crashed by an estimated 111,000 in the past decade, primarily due to poaching.

Pygmy elephant

Last month, the Duke of Cambridge – a patron of the conservation charity Tusk – warned that the African elephant will have disappeared from the wild due to poaching by the time Princess Charlotte turns 25.

This year’s estimates suggest there are 415,000 elephants across Africa.

Pygmy elephants are found only in the northeastern tip of Borneo. They grow to between eight and 10 feet, so relatively small for elephants, and as a consequence have oversized ears. There are approximately 1,500 of them left in the wild.

Prince William talks about the Tusk Trust Play! 10:04

How to see them

Reef and Rainforest (reefandrainforest.co.uk) offers a tailor-made 14-day wildlife itinerary called the Best of Borneo’s Wonderful Wildlife. It includes a visit to an orangutan sanctuary in Sepilok and a journey up the Kinabatangan River, where you can see wild proboscis monkeys and hopefully wild orangutans and pygmy elephants. From £4,125 per person.

Mountain gorillas

Mountain gorillas live between 8,000 and 13,000 feet up in the highlands of Uganda, Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of Congo. Their coat is thicker than the fur of other gorilla species to help them withstand temperatures below freezing.

They have suffered devastating population loss in recent decades because of habitat destruction and hunting. Fewer than 1,000 mountain gorillas now exist in Africa and they are one of the most critically endangered species in the world.

Mountain gorilla

How to see them

Explore (explore.co.uk) has a 12-day trip to Uganda staying in an eco-lodge and travelling deep into the rainforest of Bwindi National Park to see the mountain gorillas up-close. From £2,795 per person.

Turtles

Nearly all species of marine turtle are endangered. This includes green, hawksbill, loggerhead, leatherback and olive ridley. The leatherback turtle is the largest sea turtle species. It has become increasingly rare in both the tropical Atlantic and Pacific, and only 2,300 breeding females are thought to remain. In Costa Rica, numbers declined by 95 per cent between 1989 and 2002 because of development in breeding grounds and fishing.

A leatherback turtle in Costa Rica Credit: ap

How to see them

Travel to northeast Brazil with Veloso Tours (veloso.com) to witness green and hawksbill turtles hatching on the mainland at beaches around Natal, such as Praia do Pipa, and on Fernando de Noronha, a remote archipelago of small volcanic islands.

Tigers

Tigers are facing large declines in Asia; only around 3,900 tigers are left in the wild facing threats of habitat destruction, climate change, and human wildlife conflict. The species is critically endangered.

Bengal tigers are found mostly in India, but in smaller numbers in China, Nepal, Bhutan, Burma and Bangladesh. Despite being the most numerous of the five tiger sub-species, today there are fewer than 2,500 Bengal tigers remaining in the wild. The establishment of tiger reserves in India during the Seventies helped stem the tide of rapidly-falling numbers, but since then poaching has again increased to meet demand in Asian markets.

A tiger in the Tadoba Andhari Reserve in India Credit: alamy

How to see them

Go in search of tigers in India’s national parks with Explore (explore.co.uk) on a 13-day trip including tiger safaris in Kanha, Pench and Tadoba. Also explore the cultural delights of Mumbai and Unesco site Sanchi. From £1,879 per person.

Giant pandas

With its black and white fur, the giant panda has become one of the most recognisable creatures in the world. It eats up to 38kg of bamboo each day and is an excellent tree climber.

Baby giant panda, at a conservation centre in Chengdu Credit: rex

Just under 2,000 giant pandas remain in the wild, in around 20 remote bamboo forest patches in the mountains of the Sichuan, Shaanxi and Gansu provinces of China. The species is listed as vulnerable, although was taken off the endangered list last month. They are threatened by hunting, habitat loss and climate change. Mating patterns are severely disrupted by the encroachment of roads and railways through the bamboo forests of the Yangtze Basin.

How to see them

Wendy Wu Tours (wendywutours.co.uk‎) has trips to Beijing, Xian and Chengdu, where there are several giant panda nature reserves. The nine-day trip costs from £1,845 per person.

Giant Panda Released Into the Wild Play! 02:44

Rhinos

While once prevalent in Africa’s deserts and Asia’s tropical forests, today there are very few rhinos outside national parks and reserves. Two species of Asian rhino, Javan and Sumatran, are critically endangered. A sub-species of the Javan rhino was declared extinct in Vietnam in 2011, while a small number of them are said to survive on the island of Java in Indonesia.

Sumatran rhinos are the smallest rhinoceros and are the only Asian rhino with two horns. They are a bit furry when born and are the most closely related to extinct woolly rhinos of any species alive today.

A young rhino in Indonesia Credit: AP

How to see them

Tours to Aceh in northern Sumatra offer the possibility of a sighting. Sumatra Eco Tourism (sumatraecotourism.com) has information on Leuser National Park, where they roam. Audley Travel (audleytravel.com) offers tailor-made trips to Sumatra, which includes a stop at the Bohorok Rehabilitation Centre.

Orca

Orca (killer whale) populations in European waters are under threat from persistent organic pollutants (POPs). Despite legislative restrictions on their use, these pollutants are still present in orcas’ blubber at levels that exceed all known marine mammal toxicity thresholds. Only 50,000 remain.

An orca, spotted off the coast of Scotland Credit: pippa low

Killer whales have been recorded all around Britain, especially in the summer and in the north and west – the Shetland Islands are a hotspot, as is Iceland. But if you want almost guaranteed sightings – in large numbers – Norway is the heart of killer whale watching in Europe, says Mark Carwardine, Telegraph Travel’s whale-watching expert.

How to see them

Whalesafarai Andenes (whalesafari.no) offers a selection of tours, from whale safaris to packages that combine whalewatching with a Northern Lights tour in Norway.

Maned wolf

Maned wolves are found in the grasslands and forests of Argentina, Bolivia, Paraguay and Peru. Along with other large mammals including the giant anteater, they are threatened by the increasing conversion of grasslands into farmland for grazing and growing crops in the Brazilian Cerrado, and only 23,600 animals remain.

Maned wolf Credit: AP

How to see them

Royle Safaris (royle-safaris.co.uk) offers a Just Maned Wolf Tour exploring the grasslands of Emas National Park, where maned wolves are said to be seen more often than anywhere else in the world, as well as Caraca Park Reserve which is home to around 320 bird species and 70 species of mammals including maned wolves.

Polar bears

Polar bears spend most of their lives on the sea ice of the Arctic Ocean and the latest figures show that three of its sub-populations are in decline and at high risk of future losses due to climate change. Because of the ongoing loss of their habitat resulting from climate change, polar bears were listed as a threatened species in the US under the Endangered Species Act in May 2008.

Video shows first hand how polar bears behave in the wild Play! 01:48

How to see them

In Svalbard, if you are fortunate you can see polar bears wandering about at a distance. Hurtigruten offers a cruise that takes in the region (hurtigruten.co.uk) from £1,153 per person.

Lemurs and tortoises

The radiated tortoise is found in Madagascar and is considered to be one of the most beautiful of all tortoises in the world. It takes it name from the striking yellow lines which radiate outwards from the centre of its shell. They have been classified as “critically endangered” due to massive habitat destruction and nearly 45,000 are reported to be killed every year in the south of the island just for food alone.

Lemurs Credit: Barcroft

Also in Madagascar, the sahamalaza sportive lemur has distinctive, large “pop" eyes and is only found in a very small section of forest in the north-west. These specific habitat threats, including deforestation, coupled with the severe danger it faces from increased hunting by humans, makes it a critically endangered species.

How to see them

Explore (explore.co.uk) has a 15-day tour travelling across Madagascar with the chance to explore rainforests, nature reserves and national parks in search of lemurs. From £1,795 per person.

Tarsiers

Tarsiers are one of the world’s smallest primates and are found in the Philippine islands of Samar, Leyte, Bohol, and Mindanao. They are known to have the largest eyes, proportionate to its body, of animal in the world. The delicate and palm-sized animals with incredible night vision and hearing are at risk because they are hunted and due to their habitat disappearing.

Tarsier

How to see them

Audley Travel (audleytravel.com) can organise tailor-made trips to the Philippines that include a visit to the tarsier sanctuary in Corella on Bohol island.

Hellbender salamander

The hellbender is the largest salamander in North America and its has two sub-species. A small number of Ozark hellbenders can be found in the rivers of Missouri and Arkansas, while the eastern hellbender can be widely seen in the waters across the Appalachian region spanning from the south of New York to the north of Georgia. It can also be found in Kentucky, Ohio, Indiana, Illinois as well as Missouri.

Hellbender salamander Credit: alamy

The hellbender salamander underwent population declines of 77 per cent across five locations in Missouri between 1975 and 1995.

Degradation of habitat from the effects of agriculture and the recreational use of rivers is believed to be the main cause of the decline.

European eel

European eels live in small streams, large rivers, lakes, estuaries, lagoons and coastal waters. They are found along the stretch of the North Cape of northern Norway, down south along the coast of Europe, all coasts of the Mediterranean as well as on the North African coast.

The European eel is declining due to disease, overfishing and changes to its freshwater habitat that impede its migration to the sea to breed, levels have fallen 95 per cent in the last 25 years.

Yangtze river dolphin

River dolphins swim in some of the world’s greatest rivers, including the Ganges, Indus, Yangtze, Mekong, and Amazon. But these rivers are also home to nearly 15 per cent of the world’s population.

The Yangtze river dolphin has declined largely due to incidental mortality by collisions with fishing vessels and entanglement in fishing gear and is now feared to be extinct. In 2006, they were declared “functionally extinct” after scientists were no longer able to locate any remaining ones. Yangtze river dolphins once lived in the lower and middle patches of the Yangtze River, Fuchun River, and in Dongting and Poyang Lakes of China.

Amur leopards

Described as probably the world’s rarest cats, as few as 70 amur leopards are left in the wild, facing threats of habitat destruction and human wildlife conflict. The species is critically endangered and live mainly in the forests of Russia and China.

Amur leopard, in a zoo Credit: AP

Sources:

World Wildlife Fund (worldwildlife.org)

International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (iucn.org)

National Wildlife Federation (nwf.org)