http://www.intifada-palestine.com/2016/01/a-baby-is-born-but-bombsrus-camerons-christmas-is-mercy-mild/
203
20
Bush and Blair, the psychopathic pair, with many thousands sharing the same very dangerous personality trait, then focused on that cradle of civilization, a fine irony. It was in April 2002 when the blood brothers sealed the fate of Iraq in Crawford, Texas. ( 5 ) As always there was a pretext, ‘Weapons of Mass Destruction’. Vilification of Saddam Hussein ran parallel.

by David Halpin

One baby out of eight is being born in a war zone this Christmas. Almost all of these wars were spawned by the ‘west’, lead by the Land of the Free. Many mites come in mothers’ arms by inflatable boat to Greece. Pity dear babies, specks in the ‘migrant crisis’ unless Angela is your guardian angel.

As the war for the residues of glorious empire was drawing to a close amid the mud, blood, brains and limbs, the scheming slid nicely along. Cordite Weizmann and fractional-reserve banker Rothschild were invited to produce some words. These totalled 126 on a half A4 piece, the Balfour declaration of the 2nd of November 1917. The only Jew in the cabinet, Edwin Montague opposed it. His elegant, prescient and humane letter says it all. (1)

The fuse was set and intent recorded. Balfour stated in private and perfidious correspondence that ‘in Palestine we do not propose even to go through the form of consulting the wishes of the present inhabitants of the country …. The Four Great Powers are committed to Zionism. And Zionism, be it right or wrong, good or bad, is rooted in age-long traditions, in present needs, in future hopes, of far profounder import than the desires and prejudices of the 700,000 Arabs who now inhabit that ancient land’. The ‘Middle East’ was to be set alight.

And after another war to end wars, and the killing of over 700 British soldiers enforcing the mandate rules, came the Palestinian nakba, the ethnic cleansing by armed force and terror of 800, 000 Palestinians, four fifths of their population.

How many little mites died in that cold spring? The slow, slow, quick, quick slow of genocide continues to this second. (‘Genocide’ was coined by Lemkin, a Polish Jew, before WW2.) Over fifteen babies have been born to Palestinian mothers, in the open at checkpoints.



Read of Mohammad Khalil. (2)

The dominance of Zion excluded peace. With escalating state ‘terrorism’ came the ‘terrorism’ of the trodden, ‘the boot on the face forever’ of George Orwell. In 1982, Oded Yinon prepared a paper for Mossad one can presume. The subject was the decimation of all Arab states and entities into small ones. The language was ruthless. Of course, it took no account of how many babies would be decimated too. (3) Then came Project of the New American Century signed by over four dozen Zionist Jews, with the ‘Clean Break’ to follow and the black Perle in the vanguard. Iraq was first for the final solution.

The skeletons of over 500,000 children lie in Iraqi soil due to the draconian sanctions imposed by the US, UK and France following Saddam’s invasion of Kuwait which had been slant drilling Iraqi oil reserves. They are at peace now but their suffering in life from thirst, dysentery, cholera and hunger can only be imagined by those with hearts. Madeleine Albricht thought it was a ‘price worth paying.’ Maybe she sleeps poorly.

Afghan families fled in killing cold in October 2001 to the mountains to escape bombs raining down from B52s at 30,000 ft. How many tiny sticks were put with the parents’ tears into snowy graves? The plans were laid in July 2001. You knew that? (4) The pretext was the false flag of the 11th of September 2001, Cheney’s Pearl Harbour. That phantom, Bin Laden, was supposed to have planned it all from a cave at Tora Bora, such are the wonders of IT and satellite communication. The war, still bleeding, opium sap still flowing, US surrogates still ‘governing’ a tribal society, has lasted three times longer than WW2.

Bush and Blair, the psychopathic pair, with many thousands sharing the same very dangerous personality trait, then focused on that cradle of civilization, a fine irony. It was in April 2002 when the blood brothers sealed the fate of Iraq in Crawford, Texas. (5) As always there was a pretext, ‘Weapons of Mass Destruction’. Vilification of Saddam Hussein ran parallel. And so on the 18th March 2003, a large force of Australian SAS troops invaded Iraq. On the 22nd, the formal destruction of Iraq for ever, with massive bombardment and rapid invasion was started. Mr Blair of the Faith Foundation might tell how many children lost their lives, their limbs, their sight and their minds when they were ‘shocked and awed’?

Symbolic of the Satanic cruelty of these schemers who never see action, is the case of Ali Abbas. This is the sixth time I have written about him but I have had only ONE comment in response. His village, Zafaraniya, lay between the Al Rashid military base and Baghdad airport. Around the tenth day of ‘shock and awe’ there was a tremendous battle for the airport, a bridgehead. His arms were incinerated and so was his Mum and Dad, and ten other relatives in the house. (Images in 5) I believe these terrible injuries and the deaths of his relatives were caused by an ‘Enhanced Radiation Weapon’, in this case a neutron shell. In other words, a WMD was used, the pretended casus belli for the destruction of Iraq and its government. It is likely that Dr David Kelly was aware of this dynamite. The ‘sofa cabinet’ would have sat with less comfort and less wine. (6)

Libya was next and the pretext was an ‘opposition’ in Benghazi which was threatened with extinction by Ghaddafi’s planes and bombs. There was the customary vilification by the free western press of a leader who had gained power from a puppet in a bloodless coup. There was a ‘news’ blackout as NATO forces ‘pounded’ who knows what and where. (7) Up to 50,000 humans were killed, and especially in Sirte. The leader was killed against international law, and in the most evil manner.

And so to Syria and the vilification of Dr President Bashar Assad. Syria was number 2 on Yinon’s plan. As with Iraq and Libya, it is a secular country but showed respect to the confessions, including its 20% of Christians. The ‘free’ press, and especially the BBC, has pumped out a vast, black stream of propaganda. The BBC showed a picture of many dozens of dead children under shrouds in a communal grave. It was implied they were victims of ‘Assad’. It turned out it was taken by an Italian photographer in Iraq in May 2004! (8) How many children have been killed since guns were first fired by ‘rebels’ four years ago? Given there are 5 million ‘displaced’ humans, at least 2 million children have fled their homes.

Two years ago, Cameron sought the support of MPs in the House of Commons for a bombing campaign of Syrian government installations. ‘Butcher Assad had to be deposed’. Happily he failed, and the Conservative Mr John Baron was central in the opposition. Mr Alistair Burt MP, a fervent Christian, insisted the British government “knew exactly what would happen if there was not a strike against Assad over chemical weapons. He goes on. And the only thing that would deflect this man and this regime is if they fear they are going to end up in a storm drain with a bayonet up their backside. If they don’t fear that, they will go on killing as many people as they need to stay in power.” Such is the psychopath. The incestuous nature of this seat of power defeated my efforts in unseating this cruel and ignorant man. (9&10) Now Cameron has won support for bombing IS, a loose and equally evil structure that is supported by a large cabal of nations, mostly within NATO. The sense of MPs like Leigh, Lewis and Baron was swept away with a ‘rousing’ speech from Mr Hilary Benn. But he has dual loyalty; he visited ‘Israel’ two weeks ago for three days. Why?

Cameron’s intention, and many with him including ‘Israel’, remains the violent and unlawful overthrow of President Assad and the destruction, the Yinonization, of yet another Arab country.

Originally appeared at: David Halpin

http://dhalpin.infoaction.org.uk