http://www.jewsnews.co.il/2016/01/02/bombshell-obama-doj-vows-to-put-americans-in-prison-for-anti-muslim-speech-spread-this-everywhere/
202
20
Obama’s Attorney General Loretta Lynch spoke at the Muslim Advocate’s 10th anniversary dinner, and didn’t even mention the terrorist attacks in San Bernardino that the FBI has deemed a “terrorist act” or the attacks by Muslims in Paris– instead she threatened to prosecute Americans who engaged in “hate speech” against Islam.

Obama’s AG reassured her Muslim audience, “We stand with you in this.”

Who is this ‘we’ she is talking about? Her, Obama and the brainwashed liberal sheeple I guess.

In addition, Lynch said that since the Paris attacks, her greatest concern has been the “incredibly disturbing rise of anti-Muslim rhetoric … that fear is my greatest fear.”

Wait. THAT’S YOUR GREATEST FEAR? ARE YOU FRICKING KIDDING ME? NO! YOU’RE BIGGEST FEAR SHOULD BE THAT AMERICAN CITIZENS ARE GETTING MURDERED BY THESE SAVAGES!

One hundred thirty people were massacred by Muslim terrorists in Paris last month, added to the 17 killed in the Charlie Hebdo and kosher supermarket attacks in Paris, plus the 14 slaughtered in San Bernardino, the 13 soldiers murdered at Fort Hood, and the four Marines killed in Chattanooga, Breitbart notes.

“When we talk about the First Amendment we [must] make it clear that actions predicated on violent talk are not American. They are not who we are, they are not what we do, and they will be prosecuted… My message not just to the Muslim community but to all Americans is ‘We cannot give in to the fear that these backlashes are really based on,’” Lynch said.

“Now obviously this is a country that is based on free speech, but when it edges towards violence, when we see the potential for someone lifting that mantle of anti-Muslim rhetoric — or, as we saw after 9/11, violence directed at individuals who may not even be Muslims but perceived to be Muslims, and they will suffer just as much — when we see that, we will take action,” she said.

YOU’LL TAKE ACTION? What does that mean? What country does this lady think she represents?

How many Muslims have been killed in the United States because of this anti-Muslim rhetoric she is so concerned about? She conveniently didn’t talk about that. And likely never will.

This is bad news for white people in the U.S. We now have a black Muslim sympathizer for ATTORNEY GENERAL! Hell, that’s what we have for president for God’s sake. Look at our country now. We are in a state of complete CHAOS. Prioritizing MUSLIMS over AMERICANS is absolutely INSANE!

Furthermore, Lynch threatened to “prosecute” anyone guilty of what she deemed “violence-inspiring speech” against Muslims that “edges towards violence.”

Yeah? Well you can bet the farm that she won’t “prosecute” her beloved Muslims for SLAUGHTERING AMERICANS. Unbelievable.

Now a former U.S. congressman just posted

