http://www.opinionnigeria.com/biafra-president-obama-and-the-looming-2016-pogrom-in-nigeria-by-benjamin-u-nwosu/
203
20
Biafra: President Obama And The Looming 2016 Pogrom In Nigeria -By Benjamin U. Nwosu

I just returned from a two-week visit to Nigeria, and I can report that President Barack Obama’s foreign policy in Africa has set the stage for a looming genocide in Nigeria. The man handpicked by President Obama and other western leaders to rule Nigeria is set to unleash a reign of terror on the most populous black nation in the world.

Muhammadu Buhari, a former military dictator who ruled Nigeria with an iron fist in the early 1980s, was successfully re-packaged by western powers and sold to the Nigerian voters as the leader who would fight corruption, destroy Boko Haram terrorists, and restore economic boom to Nigeria. The world must know that President Obama to undermined the re-election bid of President Jonathan, by refusing to assist him with his campaign against Boko Haram terrorists, while secretly working with former Obama adviser Mr. Axelrod, European leaders, and western media houses to ensure a landslide victory for his minion, Mr. Buhari.

But Mr. Buhari’s inept and unfocused approach to governance in a democratic setting has taken him seven months to form a government, while paying lip service to the fight against Boko Haram terrorists, and sending Nigeria’s erstwhile robust economy on its final disgraceful limp to an early grave.

To detract attention from his innate democratic deficiencies and lackluster leadership, he has now turned his ire on an easy prey: the people of Southeastern Nigeria, a group that has been marginalized from all aspects of Nigerian life since losing out to Nigeria in the Nigeria-Biafra civil war of 1967-1970. The first order of business for this unrepentant dictator was to arrest and imprison the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Mr. Nnamdi Kanu, for exercising his right to free speech, by setting up a radio station to counter the imbalance in information dissemination in Nigeria. While I accept the premise that Mr. Kanu has made inflammatory statements that are deemed divisive, and could incite people to riot, there has been no instance of verifiable operational strategy to carry out any of his diatribes against Nigeria. This is why his case has been dismissed twice by the courts in Nigeria. However, there are antecedents to the setting up of Radio Biafra by Mr. Kanu. For those who do not know, global information dissemination in and about Nigeria, since her independence in 1960, has been championed by the BBC Hausa service, a post-colonial tool designed by Great Britain to exclusively broadcast strategic information to the Hausa-Fulanis of Northern Nigeria, at the expense of the rest of the country. The BBC Hausa Service is believed by many to havehas been used to prop up successive disastrous juntas dominated by Hausa-Fulani juntasnortherners in Nigeria by Great Britain, while London eagerly siphoned Nigerian natural resources in return for her support for these dictators.

Thus, the idea of a radio station broadcasting to the disenfranchised people of Southeastern Nigeria in their own language was a threat not just to the jittery dictator in Abuja, but to the West! Hence the reason for the deafening silence in London, Washington DC, and other western capitals over the arrest and illegal detention of the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, long after the courts have dismissed his case and acquitted him of all charges.

But all careless acts have unintended consequences. The arrest and continued detention of Mazi Kanu has touched off a storm in Southeastern Nigeria. The disenfranchised people of Southeastern Nigeria have now poured into the streets of major cities in Southern Nigeria, waving the Biafran flag, burning Nigerian flag, and demanding the release of their leader. And this demonstration of solidarity does not sit well with Obama’s dictator friend in Nigeria.

Mr. Buhari has now stated publicly that the unity of Nigeria is non-negotiable, but he has forgotten that the unity of Great Britain, which cobbled Nigeria together in 1914, was re-negotiated last year in a referendum that almost saw the disintegration of the once glorious empire.

I traveled by road from Port Harcourt to Enugu in Southeastern Nigeria two weeks ago, and the entire Southeastern Nigeria is occupied by Nigerian troops. There are checkpoints everywhere, manned by gun-toting soldiers and allied personnel who conduct unofficial searches of road users, and have become a menace to the civilized existence of men, women, and children in Southeastern Nigeria. These soldiers have conducted two confirmed massacres in Onitsha, Anambra State. These soldiers have gone into clinics in Onitsha and forcefully removed critically-wounded survivors of their mass shootings to unknown locations. There are unconfirmed stories of mass burials conducted by these soldiers to hide traces of their mass executions in Southeastern Nigeria.

All these events took place before the Nigerian dictator in civilian garb announced that the unity of Nigeria was not negotiable. His next move is to use the massed Nigerian troops in Southeastern Nigeria to conduct what has been described in some quarters as the final solution to the Biafran question. The plan is to lay siege to major cities in the Southeast, seal all escape routes, and mow down as many demonstrators as possible to ‘teach them a lesson’. For those doubting Thomases out there, please recall that the Nigerian military mowed down scores of minority Shiite demonstrators in Zaria four weeks ago, and they are poised to escalate their macabre act in the Southeast! We have an American ambassador in Nigeria who has turned a blind eye while a citizen is rotting in prison for expressing his right to free speech, and while demonstrators are being executed with live bullets. We have an American President playing ostrich in Washington DC while his errand boy gears up to commit ethnic cleansing in Southeastern Nigeria.

Nigerians do not expect any meaningful leadership from this Western-government imposed dictator masquerading as a civilian president. He failed to show up for all presidential debates in the run-up to the general election, failed to produce his high school diploma or any qualifying document for the presidency, and took seven months to form a cabinet that is filled with some of the most corrupt politicians in Nigeria! Yet, in the run-up to the elections, all the western media houses, from BBC, CNN, to the New York Times were tripping over each other to get to the podium to sing his praises. Now they have all fallen silent as disaster looms in Nigeria.

The world must know that President Obama undermined the re-election bid of President Jonathan, by refusing to assist him with his campaign against Boko Haram terrorists, while secretly working with Mr. Axelrod, European leaders, and western media houses to ensure a landslide victory for his minion, Mr. Buhari. The Nigerian dictator, who dodged all debates in the last presidential election, had to be flown to England to read a speech written for him by English lawyers and bankers on how England would rule Nigeria through Mr. Buhari! Across the pond, the US president has turned a deaf ear while his protégé in Africa, a blood-thirsty dictator, prepares for a second pogrom in Nigeria. As happened in Burundi and Rwanda in 1993-4, the United States may claim that it was unaware of the state of affairs on the ground in Nigeria before this looming pogrom, but we are going on record to state the facts for the world to read. Going by the current trends, President Obama’s foreign policy achievements in Africa will eventually be summed up in a few words: a handful of dust!

By Benjamin U. Nwosu

Comments

comments