http://www.radioaustralia.net.au/international/2016-10-06/survivors-of-thailands-1976-student-massacre-shine-light-on-nations-shadow-history/1623850
203
20
As the killing started, Surachart Bamrungsuk was tricked.

He was one of a group of student leaders sent out to try to negotiate with the security forces that had massed outside Bangkok's Thammasat University campus on October 6, 1976.

"They agreed that we will leave Thammasat to [go to] the prime minister's house to have a negotiation," Mr Surachart told the ABC.

"But when we arrived there, the police just said, 'No need to come down, just stay in the car'," he remembered.

The negotiation never happened and Surachart Bamrungsuk ended up spending two years in jail on treason charges.

But he was lucky — the campus he had just left quickly became a bloodbath.

The official death toll is 46 but it is thought more than twice that number died.

Some were shot, stabbed and beaten to death, but others died more gruesome deaths.

Photographs show people being burned, apparently still alive, while other corpses had wooden stakes driven through their chests.

The most iconic image of that day was captured by Associated Press photographer Neil Ulevich, who was awarded a Pulitzer for his coverage of the massacre.

It shows a lifeless body hanging by the neck from a tree as a man prepared to bring a folding chair crashing down on it. Among the crowd of onlookers is a young boy, his face frozen — shockingly — in what looks like a shriek of laughter.

Another photo from the time shows Surachart Bumrungsuk's friend being lynched.

"If you look at the picture … the one that was hanged at Sanam Luang, that was him," Mr Surachart said.

"We were so naive … we thought that the walls of the university can protect us."

Thailand's 'shadow history'

In 1973, students were hailed as heroes for leading a pro-democracy movement.

But three years later, ousted dictator Thanom Kittikachorn was set to return to Thailand, sparking the protests at Thammasat campus.

There were, however, more combustible historical forces at play.

Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos all fell to the communists in 1975, and — even more disturbingly for ultra-monarchist Thailand — the Lao royal family was banished.

Thailand's powerful military made its move.

"They believed that in order to prevent the falling of the forth domino in Bangkok, you have to get rid of the student movement first," said Mr Surachart, who now teaches political science at Chulalongkorn University.

In fact, the massacre had the opposite effect — radicalising many students, who fled to the jungle to join the Communist guerrillas.

Telling an untold story

The bloody event 40 years ago is largely buried in Thai history books and not widely understood by Thais today.

"It's an untold story," the director of a physical theatre performance about the massacre, Teerawat Mulvilai, said.

The show is called Fundamental and will be performed at Thammasat University at dawn on the anniversary, in front of survivors and current students.

It focuses on the role of the mob that day — lurching between violence, fear and crazed laughter.

"[I wanted] to make the people go back and read and study and make this as a lesson — we need a lesson, otherwise everything — the violence — is gonna come back," Mr Teerawat said.

Mr Surachart agrees that people have failed to learn the lessons of what he calls Thailand's "shadow history".

"It's true that now, [on the] 40th anniversary of October 6, we still have the military government — it looks like history goes back again and again," he said.

The current military junta has, so far, not stopped any of the memorial events going ahead.

However, it did deport one of the guest speakers on Wednesday — teenage pro-democracy activist Joshua Wong — who was invited to share his experiences of the 2014 Umbrella Movement.

The so-called October Generation of the 1970s might take comfort from the renewed interest among at least some university students, who have helped organise events to mark the anniversary.

There are also fresh efforts to find out exactly who died that day, with many bodies unrecovered and families still wondering.

Another survivor, noted scholar Thongchai Winichakul, believes these anniversaries are far more than dates to remember the dead.

"Commemoration … is a form of challenge not only to the state but also to … the whole generation of former radical activists of the 1970s themselves, to test the limits between silence and voices," he said.

For Mr Surachart, this year is the first time he has spoken in detail to the media about the massacre.

"I'm 61 this year … so I think it's time I should say something about what happened during my generation," he said.