http://njtoday.net/2016/02/18/un-rules-assange-is-victim-of-unlawful-government-detention/
203
20
The United Nations Working Group on Arbitrary Detention (WGAD) announced its decision finding that the detention of Wikileaks founder Julian Assange is unlawful, ordered that he be immediately released and compensated by Sweden and the United Kingdom.

Under the authority of the UN Office of the High Commissioner of Human Rights, the WGAD was established in 1991 to investigate and adjudicate whether states are in compliance with their international human rights obligations.

Assange was arbitrarily detained by the UK and Sweden despite the fact that he was not been charged with any crime, according to the decision that was released earlier this month.

There may be a pending prosecution by the United States against Assange for espionage and other offenses related to his WikiLeaks publications, in which he merely engaged in journalism by publishing information that was true and placed in his possession.

The UN body specialized in situations of arbitrary detention have condemned Sweden and the United Kingdom for Assange’s unlawful restraint.

It has been inaccurately reported that Assange was accused of rape, but in fact several women in Sweden merely alleged that the man did not wear a condom when they had consensual sex.

Swedish authorities never received a criminal complaint from any of the involved women, Sofia Wilén and Anna Ardin. They also inflated the testimony of two witnesses, Marie Thorn and Hanna Rosquist, who were friends of Wilén that were told about her sexual encounter with Assange.

According to Agreed Statement of Facts to the UK Supreme Court, 2012: “After [Sofia Wilén and Anna Ardin] spoke to each other and realized that they had both had intercourse with [Assange] during the currency of his visit in circumstances where respectively they had or might have been or become unprotected against disease or pregnancy, SW wanted [Assange] to get tested for disease. On 20 August 2010 SW went to the police to seek advice.”

In 2010, Eva Finne, the Swedish Chief Prosecutor, stated she “made the assessment that the evidence did not disclose any offence of rape” and that “The conduct alleged by SW disclosed no crime at all and that file (K246314-10) would be closed.”

Sofia Wilén and Anna Ardin arrived at the Klara police station in downtown Stockholm on Friday afternoon 20 August 2010. There are varying stories even from the girls themselves about what they were up to.

Due to a breach of office by prosecutor Maria Häljebo Kjellstrand, the bizarre story was a world sensation only a few hours later.

The chief claimant broke down when she heard her former lover was arrested in absentia and hunted on the streets of Stockholm. It’s not known if she ever completed her interrogation, had it read back, or approved it.

Chief prosecutor Eva Finné dismissed all allegations but one (and rescinded the arrest warrant) eight minutes short of twenty four hours later. The final allegation was to disappear sometime the following week.

Assange is not an American citizen and he had no obligation to protect US military and diplomatic secrets that were shared with him by US Army Private Bradley Manning. The government’s prosecution of his action is a clear effort to punish the disclosure of its own illegal actions, such as the murder of unarmed two Reuters journalists on a Baghdad street in 2007. The former Army soldier, who legally changed his name to Chelsea Manning, was sentenced in August 2013 to 35 years’ imprisonment, with the possibility of parole in the eighth year, for violations of the Espionage Act and other offenses, after disclosing to WikiLeaks nearly three-quarters of a million classified or unclassified but sensitive military and diplomatic documents.

The July 12, 2007 Baghdad airstrikes were a series of air-to-ground attacks conducted by a team of two US AH-64 Apache helicopters in Al-Amin al-Thaniyah, New Baghdad.

In the video disclosed by Wikileaks, on the morning of July 12, 2007, the crews of two United States Army AH-64 Apache helicopters observe a gathering of men near a section of Baghdad in the path of advancing U.S. ground troops. They open fire on the group and kill one of the two journalists.

As a man with his two children in a van arrives in an attempt to take the other journalist to safety, the gunships fire upon him as well, killing the reporter and injuring the children.

The Granai airstrike, sometimes called the Granai massacre, refers to the killing of approximately 86 to 147 Afghan civilians by an airstrike by a US Air Force B-1 Bomber on May 4, 2009, in the village of Granai (sometimes spelled Garani or Gerani) in Farah Province, south of Herat, Afghanistan.

Connect with NJTODAY.NET

Join NJTODAY.NET's free Email List to receive occasional updates delivered right to your email address!