http://www.heraldscotland.com/news/14795091.Angela_Constance_vows_to_fight_for_equality_on_International_Day_of_the_Girl/
130
13
Equalities Secretary Angela Constance has called for action to tackle gender inequality as she joined forces with actress Juliet Stevenson and supermodel Lily Cole at a special event aimed at empowering girls.

The minister was one of 250 successful females who took part in a speed mentoring event on the London Eye staged to mark the UN International Day of the Girl.

READ MORE: Sandi Toksvig in appeal to be paid same as Stephen Fry

Others taking part included Olympic champion rower Heather Stanning, TV presenter Anita Rani, businesswoman Mary Portas and comedienne Jo Brand.

Participants were divided into different capsules on the London Eye, with Ms Constance providing advice and guidance to three girls on board.

International Day of the Girl celebrates the achievements and potential of girls, but also acknowledges the challenges faced by millions of young women across the world.

Ms Constance said: "It's a sad fact that around the world girls face disadvantage and discrimination on a daily basis and can face barriers to accessing even the most basic education and healthcare.

READ MORE: Sandi Toksvig in appeal to be paid same as Stephen Fry

"But it is also incredible that out of such adversity there can be incredible and inspiring achievements. Just think what women could do if they were given all the opportunities that men are, wherever they live in the world. And there is no reason that should not happen.

"The UN International Day of the Girl recognises communities and governments need to do more to fully empower women and girls not just on one day, but 365 days of the year.

"We must all acknowledge the significant international gender inequality and do everything we can to tackle the injustices and hardships faced by many young girls and women around the globe."

Ms Constance pledged to champion the rights of girls and women wherever they live in the world.

She added: "Even in Scotland, women are still significantly under-represented when it comes to key decision-making positions. We want girls to understand that this is not acceptable and we will continue to lead by example when it comes to taking action to address this.

READ MORE: Sandi Toksvig in appeal to be paid same as Stephen Fry

"If we can make progress with gender equality - both in Scotland and overseas - we can help individuals flourish and reach their full potential, which will ultimately create a wealthier and fairer society."