http://www.wsj.com/articles/with-split-looming-alcoa-reports-worse-than-expected-quarter-1476188165
130
13
ENLARGE Slabs of aluminum sit on the production floor of the Alcoa Davenport Works facility in Riverdale, Iowa, in 2014. Photo: Bloomberg News

Aluminum maker Alcoa Inc. cut its forecast for its aerospace-focused division and reported a decline in revenue, sending its shares tumbling and underscoring challenges facing the company as it prepares to split into two firms.

The New York-based manufacturer, which is set to divide on Nov. 1, reported a profit of $166 million, or 33 cents a share, up from $44 million, or 6 cents a share, a year ago on cost cutting. Overall revenue fell 6% to $5.21 billion, and earnings and profit missed analysts’ projections.

Shares fell 11% to $28.08 in afternoon trading on the New York Stock Exchange.

Faced with a glut of aluminum supply coming out of China and weak prices, the company, founded in Pittsburgh 128 years ago, is spinning off its mining and smelting divisions into a outfit that will keep the Alcoa name.

The split aims to capitalize on what had been expected to be the higher-growth business of making manufactured goods, often with non-aluminum alloys, for the aerospace and automotive industries. That business will be renamed Arconic, and is viewed as having higher growth potential than the aluminum and smelting operations because of demand from aircraft makers for fasteners, screws and other parts made out of high-tech alloys. Automotive companies also are using more aluminum to meet fuel efficiency standards.

‘New revenue outlook would mean meaningful changes to the overall sum-of-the-parts.’ —David Gagliano, BMO Capital Markets

But demand from the aerospace and automotive sectors is cyclical: At the units that will form Arconic, sales in the latest quarter fell 1% from a year earlier to $3.4 billion, reflecting adjustments to delivery schedules in the aerospace industry, softness in North America commercial transportation, and pricing pressures.

The company lowered revenue targets for all three units at Arconic this year, for example cutting the top end of its forecast in engineered parts to $5.8 billion from $6.1 billion. It also cut an expected earnings margin, which analyst David Gagliano of BMO Capital Markets noted would mean “meaningful changes to the overall sum-of-the-parts.”

Alcoa said those businesses were hurt by “unprecedented industry ramp-up to new platforms, destocking and supply chain optimization in airframes” in the aerospace industry.

As for Alcoa’s traditional metals operations—which include smelting, mining and refining—the company reported revenue of $2.3 billion, which it said was roughly the same as the year-ago quarter, reflecting continued low alumina prices and the impact of curtailed and closed operations.

On Tuesday, Klaus Kleinfeld said Alcoa was showing “resilience in spite of near-term market challenges.” Mr. Kleinfeld will run Arconic after the split, and Roy Harvey, currently in charge of primary production, will become CEO of Alcoa.

Alcoa’s raw aluminum business has been hammered this decade by an oversupply of aluminum generated largely by China that has caused prices on the London Metal Exchange to fall to around $1,700 a ton, down from around $2,500 a ton five years ago. To cope with weak prices, Alcoa has been closing high-cost smelters in the U.S.

Another challenge to overcome will be the complication and cost of setting up two separate management teams. So far this year, Alcoa says it has spent around $200 million on its transition.

Alcoa was, as has been its tradition, the first major U.S. company to report quarterly earnings, a role it hasn’t said yet whether it plans to keep. The earnings report Tuesday is expected to be Alcoa’s last as a single company.

Write to John W. Miller at john.miller@wsj.com and Joshua Jamerson at joshua.jamerson@wsj.com