http://www.unmultimedia.org/radio/english/2016/05/news-in-brief-10-may-2016-pm/
202
20
News in Brief 10 May 2016 (PM)

Shooting and killing of civilians in Darfur condemned

The shooting and killing of civilians close to a site for displaced people in Sortony North Darfur has been condemned by the UN.

These unidentified men on gun-mounted vehicles opened fire, killing two children and wounding several others, including a peacekeeper with the African Union-UN Mission UNAMID.

Jumbe Omari Jumbe, the head of UNAMID radio says people urgently need water and shelter.

"You can imagine this huge influx of people just living outside in the makeshift camps at the time when the weather is very cold, actually it was sub-zero degrees with huge numbers of children. Some of them didn't have any time to take anything when they were fleeing away except the clothes they had on."

The Mission's peacekeepers have caught two of the alleged perpetrators of the attack and are in the process of handing them over to local authorities.

UN Chief welcomes President Obama's Hiroshima visit

One of the enduring lessons of Hiroshima is the need to abolish nuclear weapons once and for all, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has said.

The remarks delivered by his Spokesperson on Tuesday come following an announcement that the US President would be visiting the Japanese city.

President Barack Obama is the first sitting president to visit the place where an atomic bomb was dropped by the Americans during World War II.

More than 200,000 people died from nuclear radiation and shock waves from the blasts. The number of casualties rose after Nagasaki city was hit three days later.

The first resolution adopted by the General Assembly in 1946 reflected the world’s concern about the use of atomic weapons.

Ban Ki-moon has reiterated that "nuclear disarmament is the most pressing and noble goals of the United Nations."

People flee over tensions between Myanmar armed groups

Tensions between armed groups in the north of Myanmar have forced over a thousand people to flee their villages in Kyaukme and Hsipaw, the UN humanitarian agency OCHA has confirmed.

The northern Shan State has been marred by conflict, but some of its armed groups have signed a cease-fire with the central government.

According to the Government's Relief and Resettlement Department (RRD), 1,037 newly displaced people arrived to Kyaukme and are staying in seven sites.

In Hsipaw, almost 600 people have arrived and are sheltering in two monasteries.

Here's the UN Spokesperson Stéphane Dujarric.

"Over last weekend, an estimated 1,600 people left their villages in Shan State following heightened tensions between armed groups in the area. Local authorities and the Myanmar Red Cross Society have distributed some relief items."

The country had been under military rule for 50 years until 2011.

Last year, a civilian-led government was voted in for the first time.

New guidelines on pesticides issued to reduce damage

New guidelines aimed at reducing the damage done by pesticides have been issued by two UN agencies on Tuesday.

According to the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and the World Health Organization (WHO) these substances pose high toxic risks to human health and the environment.

A relatively small group of highly hazardous pesticides account for high numbers of poisoning cases, while others may cause cancer or developmental disorders for growing children.

In industrialized countries, these products may no longer be permitted or subject to strict use limitations, yet they often remain widely available in developing countries.

However restriction on the use of such highly hazardous products is often hard to enforce, leading to widespread use by untrained persons.

Jocelyne Sambira, United Nations.

Duration: 3’33″