http://armenpress.am/eng/news/844742/witness-of-baku-massacres-the-conflict-that-ruined-my-childhood-still-continues.html
202
20
YEREVAN, APRIL 23, ARMENPRESS. Lawyer, human rights activist Anna Astvatsaturian Turcotte, who lived the first ten years of her life in the capital of Azerbaijan, Baku, currently living in the USA, urges to take concrete measures to struggle against genocides that have become a cancer for the humanity. “The ideology of genocides is still vivid. Genocides and ethnic cleanings are a huge problem for populations and economies. Various international treaties are not powerful enough to prevent genocides that still take place in different parts of the world. Genocidal elements are really present in Artsakh, where civilians were recently massacred on the occasion of which the great powers of the world merely expressed concern”, “Armenpress” reports Anna Astvatsaturian told about this during the second global forum “Against the Crime of Genocide”. The Armenian lawyer and writer, quoting Hemingway as saying “Never mistake motion for action”, noted that the joint and good intentions of some circles are not enough for preventing the crime of genocide. “Those intentions must turn into actions. Let’s make this century the century of genocide prevention, which will be called “Never again”, Anna Astvatsaturian said.

She spoke about the Armenian massacres in Baku, Sumgait and Kirovabad, in the context of the history that ruined the lives of her grandfather, family and particularly her childhood.

The speaker mentioned that thank to the russification of the surname “Astvatsaturyan” into Astvatsatur by her grandfather, their family avoided the massacres and brutal killings of 1988. Bu she still recalls the questions that rose in her mind during the days of the massacres. “I used to ask my parents why I had to hide my real surname and tell that I am a Greek when I am asked about it at school. I often asked why people dressed in black and green shouted “death to Armenians” near our house. Finally, I ceased to ask those questions when my parents managed to flee months later. I was able to catch the horror of ethnic violence as a child”, the speaker said, adding that she found her conform in keeping a diary, which was published in 2010.

I published my diary as a history of the past, but it is also our present. The conflict that ruined my childhood still goes on. A few hundred km away from here 150 thousands of Armenians live in Karabakh, who are a daily target for the Azerbaijani side for their ethnic belonging”, Anna Astvatsaturian concluded.