http://www.coastweek.com/3917-Ugandan-rebel-group-Lords-Resistance-Army-abduct-296-people.htm
202
20
KAMPALA Uganda (Xinhua) --

Uganda’s notorious rebel group, the Lord’s Resistance Army (LRA) abducted 296 people in Central African Republic (CAR) and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) in the first quarter of this year, a report said on Friday.

The report, issued by a group of non-governmental organization monitoring activities of the rebel group shows that the 296 abductions were the biggest in a single quarter since the third quarter of 2010.

The report by U.S. charity organizations, Invisible Children and Resolve warned that there was a significant surge of the LRA violence.

It said the majority of the abductions occurred in the CAR, where the rebels abducted 252 individuals.

At least 57 children were among those abducted in CAR, 36 of whom remain in captivity or are unaccounted for, according to the report.

In DRC, the LRA abducted 43 people, the lowest quarterly figure since 2008.

Out of the 296 people abducted, 200 escaped or were released within days of being abducted.

"The majority of abductees were adults who escaped or were released within days of being abducted, meaning they were used as short-term porters of looted goods," said the report.

.

EARLIER REPORTS: Over 11,120 South Sudanese refugees have arrived in Dungu-Doruma

KINSHASA, Democratic Republic of Congo (Xinhua) -- Over 11,120 South Sudanese refugees have arrived in Dungu-Doruma locality in northeast Democratic Republic of Congo (DR Congo) since the start of April, a humanitarian organization has said.

Communications officer for Caritas Catholic organization in DR Congo, Guy-Marin Kamandji, said a report from its offices in northeast DR Congo had revealed increased arrival of refugees from South Sudan.

Kamandji said half of the refugees were living with "host families".

He said the refugees needed food, essential household items, access to drinking water and sanitation, as well as protection from rebel groups such as the Lord’s Resistance Army.

Dungu-Doruma diocese of the Catholic church is situated near DR Congo’s border with South Sudan.

.

MARCH 2016: United States sanctions Central Africa’s rebel group LRA

WASHINGTON United States (Xinhua) -- The U.S. Treasury Department on Tuesday announced sanctions relating to Central African Republic’s rebel group Lord’s Resistance Army (LRA) and its leader, Joseph Kony.

"Today’s action freezes any LRA assets within U.S. jurisdiction and generally prohibits U.S. persons from engaging in transactions with the group," U.S. Treasury Department said in a press release.

The LRA, headed by Joseph Kony, is known for massacring and mutilating civilians as well as abducting children to use as soldiers or even slaves.

"From murdering innocent civilians to pillaging villages, the Lord’s Resistance Army is responsible fro notorious acts of violence, "said John E. Smith, Acting Director from the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the State Department said.

He noted that the sanctions will support Treasury Department’s broader effort to dismantle the militia group.

More than 200 people have been kidnapped in eastern Central African Republic this year, already early double last year’s level, in a wave of abductions blamed on the LRA, LRA Crisis Tracker said in a statement last week.

.

AUGUST 2015: Hundreds of human rights violations reported in Democratic Republic of Congo

KINSHASA Democratic Republic of Congo (Xinhua) -- The United Nations Joint Human Rights Office recorded 409 human rights violations in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DR Congo) in August, according to its report released Wednesday in Kinshasa.

The most affected regions were in the east of the country, with Orientale province having 152 cases, North Kivu 149 cases and South Kivu w21 cases, the report said.

"During the month of August 2015, state agencies were responsible for 216 violations that affected 330 victims," it said.

"The DR Congo army was responsible for 93 violations that affected 168 victims, while the police were responsible for 90 violations which affected 126 victims," it added.

Combatants of armed groups were responsible for 193 violations that affected 413 victims.

Some of the armed groups included the Lord’s Resistance Army which committed 47 violations and the Ituri Patriotic Resistance Front which committed 45 violations.

.

JUNE 2016: African Union forces in Central African Republic capture weapons

KAMPALA Uganda (Xinhua) -- Uganda troops serving under the African Union Regional Task Force (AU–RTF) in Central African Republic (CAR) have captured an assortment of weapons from the Lord’s Resistance Army (LRA) rebels.

The Ugandan military in a statement issued here on Tuesday said the force operating North East of Sam Ouandja in Central Africa unearthed 30 pieces of sub-machine guns and 27 AK–47 empty magazines that had been buried by the LRA.

"Considering the fact that the rebels are already experiencing scarcity of arms, this is a big achievement and, no doubt, their combat capacity will never be the same.

"The LRA demise is in sight, " said Col. Michael Kabango, the Commander of the Ugandan Contingent in CAR.

The LRA, according to the Ugandan military, has over the decades been burying weapons when under pursuit for easier escape, with a hope to return, at a later date, to recover them.

The AU–RTF was formed in 2012 after the African Union decided that the LRA was a regional security threat.

For over 20 years until 2006, the LRA fought in northern Uganda leaving tens of thousands of people dead and over two million others homeless.

.

Democratic Republic of Congo army clashes with Ugandan rebels

KINSHASA Democratic Republic of Congo (Xinhua) -- Five people were killed and several others injured last weekend during clashes where troops of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DR Congo) and Ugandan rebel were involved in Garamba National Park, north of the country, local civil society groups and an army official told Xinhua.

The clashes were between the DR Congo army and Garamba park rangers on one side, and a gang of poachers led by Ugandan rebel group, Lord’s Resistance Army, on the other.

The sources said the army and park rangers fell into an ambush laid by about 100 armed poachers on Saturday.

The five victims included two soldiers, a park ranger and two assailants, according to the sources.

The army’s operational commander within Dungu area where the clashes took place, confirmed that to Xinhua.

.

MARCH 2015: ICC prosecutor to press new charges against Ugandan rebel commander

LIRA, Uganda (Xinhua) -- The International Criminal Court (ICC) chief prosecutor, Fatou Bensouda on Sunday announced that she is going to expand war crimes charges against Dominic Ongwen, Ugandan rebel commander of the Lord’s Resistance Army (LRA) currently before the Court.

Addressing the victims of the 2004 Barlonyo massacre here in the northern Ugandan district of Lira, Bensouda said that after her office issued arrest warrants against Ongwen, LRA leader Joseph Kony, his deputy Vincent Otti, Okot Odhiambo and Raska Lukwiya, the commanders continued to commit atrocities in Uganda, South Sudan, Democratic Republic of Congo and Central African Republic.

"This case has been in hibernation for 11 years because we didn’t have any of the indicted commanders in our custody. Now that we have Ongwen, a lot of work needs to be done.

"I have asked the Judges to postponed the confirmation charges and trial of Ongwen for four months," said Bensouda.

"This is to enable us to revive, get new evidence, do fresh investigations and re-contact our witness. We are expanding the investigations. We need to expand the charges.

"We have received information after the warrants were issued, the LRA continued to commit atrocities in Uganda and the neighboring countries," she said.

She added, "We will need your continued support and cooperation.

"We need anybody (victims) who can help give us new information and evidence to build a strong case against Ongwen."

The Hague based court issued it’s first arrest warrants against the five LRA commanders on war crimes and crimes against humanity.

Bensouda who is currently in the East African country for a five-day official visit laid a wreath on the Barlonyo monument, where over 300 people were buried in mass graves.

The LRA rebels on February 21, 2004 attacked Barlonyo Internaly Displaced Persons camp and massacred over 300 people.

"This was emotional to me.

"It touched me as a mother and a woman.

"Ongwen appearance at the Court is the start of the process for the victims to get justice.

"The victims will get justice they deserve," said Bensouda.

She added that they are going to discuss at the Court the possibility of having some prosecution of Ongwen in Uganda.

Bensouda also told the victims that Ongwen has chosen Ugandan lawyer, Odongo Otto as his defense lawyer during his prosecution at The Hague based court.

"The Court had given him Hellen Cisse.

"But the defendant has a right to chose his own lawyer.

"Ongwen has chosen his Ugandan lawyer Otto to represent him," said Bensouda.

.

FEBRUARY 2015: Three killed in Democratic Republic of Congo by suspected Ugandan rebels

KINSHASA Democratic Republic of Congo (Xinhua) -- Three people were killed and four others injured by suspected members of the Ugandan rebel group, Lord’s Resistance Army (LRA), in Democratic Republic of Congo’s eastern province of Orientale, an official source has said.

The administrator of Dungu territory Edmond Lokakau said those injured during the Monday attack were admitted at a local health center, as they were waiting to be transferred to a regional hospital for further treatment.

Security officials in the province said the incident occurred just two weeks after the kidnapping of eight people by LRA rebels in Orientale.

LRA and another Ugandan rebel group Allied Democratic Forces, have been accused of carrying out massacres of civilian population in the eastern part of the DR Congo.

.

JANUARY 2015: Ugandan war crime suspect Ongwen arrives at ICC prison for future hearing

THE HAGUE Netherlands (Xinhua) -- Dominic Ongwen, commander of the Ugandan Lord’s Resistance Army (LRA) rebels, arrived Wednesday at the detention center of the International Criminal Court (ICC) in The Hague, the ICC said.

Ongwen left on Tuesday the Central African Republic, where he was arrested last week and transferred to the ICC’s custody.

"Dominic Ongwen’s transfer brings us one step closer to ending the LRA’s reign of terror in the African Great Lakes region," The ICC chief prosecutor Fatou Bensouda said in a press release.

"For more than a quarter of a century, the LRA under Joseph Kony and his high command, including Ongwen, has terrorized the people of northern Uganda and neighboring countries," Bensouda added.

"The LRA has reportedly killed tens of thousands and displaced millions of people, terrorized civilians, abducted children and forced them to kill and serve as sex slaves," she said.

The ICC had issued an warrant for Ongwen’s arrest on July 8, 2005 over crimes against humanity and war crimes allegedly committed in 2004 in the long-lasting civil war in Uganda.

According to the ICC statement, Ongwen will receive a medical visit and will appear, as soon as possible, before the ICC judges in the presence of a defense lawyer. The date of the initial appearance hearing will be announced soon.

The judges will also fix a date for the opening of the confirmation of charges hearing, a preliminary step to decide whether the case will be referred to a trial or not.

Joseph Kony, Vincent Otti and Okot Odhiambo, who are still on the run, are the other Ugandan LRA commanders indicted by the ICC.

.

Over 30 lawyers apply to represent Uganda’s rebel commander

KAMPALA Uganda (Xinhua) -- Over 30 lawyers across the globe have expressed willingness to freely represent Uganda’s notorious Lord’s Resistance Army (LRA) rebel commander Dominic Ongwen at the International Criminal Court (ICC) trials, a government official has said here.

Henry Okello Oryem, the state minister for international relations told reporters here that over 30 U.S., European Union and African lawyers have contacted the office of Attorney General, Director of Public Prosecution and ministry of foreign affairs to freely defend Ongwen at ICC, where he faces charges of war crimes and crimes against humanity.

"Ongwen has access to lawyers of his choice. Many lawyers from all sort of life have contacted the office of Attorney General, Director of Public Prosecution and even the ministry of foreign affairs wishing to represent Dominic Ongwen," said Okello.

"He (Ongwen) has access to lawyers of his choice or teams of lawyers to choose to represent him. One of the lawyers (John Jones) who has personally contacted me to represent Ongwen is the one who is representing the son of late Col. Mamuar Gadaffi son (Saif al- Islam)," he said.

"The government will cooperate with the prosecutors of ICC in the matter of Ongwen’s trial including access to availing witnesses.

"The government of Uganda will wish Ongwen to get justice and fair justice," he said.

Ongwen surrendered to Central African Republic (CAR) Seleka rebels, who later handed him to U.S. Special Forces and African troops hunting LRA leader Joseph Kony and his fighters operating in the jungles of northeastern Democratic Republic of Congo (DR Congo) and CAR.

He was on Saturday due to be flown to the ICC in The Hague, Netherlands for war crimes and crimes against humanity trials.

Ongwen, a former abductee who rose through the ranks of the LRA, becomes the first senior rebel commander to be flown to the ICC to answers charges of war crimes and crimes against humanity.

Ongwen, together with warlord Joseph Kony, his deputy Vincent Otti, Okot Odhiambo and Raska Lukwiya were indicted in 2005 by ICC over war crimes and crimes against humanity.

They face 33 counts of war crimes which include murder abduction, rape, sexual enslavement, mutilations, maiming and burning of villages. Lukwiya has since died and Otti was reported executed on Kony’s orders in 2007.

The LRA have been blamed for the killing of over 100,000 people and abductions of more than 60,000 children during a three-decade- long campaign in Uganda, South Sudan, DR Congo and CAR.