http://www.newsghana.com.gh/april-18-major-ethiopian-media-outlets/
202
20
The following are news highlights in Ethiopia's major media outlets on Monday.

— The fifth Tana High-Level Forum on Security in Africa concluded Sunday after officially announcing the formation of Tana Foundation.

The formation of the Foundation was declared by Ethiopian Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn of Ethiopia.

In his closing remark, the premier said Ethiopia will continue providing consolidated support for the Foundation. (Fana Broadcasting Corporate/FBC)

— Death toll rises to 182 in Ethiopia’s Gambella attack carried out by South Sudanese armed Murle tribe. The total number of death reached 208 including those killed last month.

The number of children kidnapped reached 108 including those kidnapped last month. (Ethiopian Broadcasting Corporation/EBC)

— The Ethiopian defense force has intensified its military operation to free children abducted from Gambella regional state last Friday, Government Communication Affairs Office said.

Armed Murle tribe from South Sudan massacred 208 innocent civilians and kidnapped 100 children, including those killed and abducted since last month. They also looted over 2,000 cattle. (Fana Broadcasting Corporate/FBC)

— Ethiopia and Somalia agreed to advance their cooperation economically as well as politically.

Ethiopian Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn and Somalian President Hassan Sheikh Mohamud held discussion on the sidelines of the 5th Tana high level security forum. (Ethiopian Broadcasting Corporation/EBC)

— Ethiopia and Kenya are among the top 10 African countries with the highest number of hotel rooms to be constructed in 2016, thanks to a predicted growth in GDP and rising demand for conferencing and tourism facilities in the two countries.

Kenya and Ethiopia were ranked seventh and eighth respectively in a survey released last week by W Hospitality. Sixteen global hotels plan to develop 2,956 hotel rooms in Kenya, while 12 hotels are planning to develop 2,460 rooms in Ethiopia. (Fana Broadcasting Corporate/FBC) Enditem

Source: Xinhua