http://www.independent.ie/irish-news/courts/man-44-exposed-himself-to-shocked-teen-at-mcdonalds-drivein-after-ordering-breakfast-35127150.html
138
13
A man (44) exposed his penis to a "shocked and upset" 19-year-old in McDonald's after ordering a breakfast meal from her.

Man (44) exposed himself to 'shocked' teen at McDonalds drive-in after ordering breakfast

A man (44) exposed his penis to a "shocked and upset" 19-year-old in McDonald's after ordering a breakfast meal from her.

A man (44) exposed his penis to a "shocked and upset" 19-year-old in McDonald's after ordering a breakfast meal from her.

Man (44) exposed himself to 'shocked' teen at McDonalds drive-in after ordering breakfast

At Ennis District Court, Insp Tom Kennedy said that Doolin guest house owner Stephen Gillam told gardai that he exposed himself to the girl at the McDonald's drive-in in Ennis "for the thrill of it and to see the reaction of the lady".

In the mid-morning incident on June 7 last, Mr Gillam of Glasha, Doolin, ordered a double sausage meal with extra hash brown, extra sausage and milk. Mr Gillam placed his breakfast order from his car to a member of staff at the drive-in and was asked to park further along the line and wait for the staff member to bring him his food.

Insp Kennedy said that when the female member of staff went out to give Mr Gillam his food at around 9.50am "he had the zip of his trousers open and had his penis exposed to her in the car". Insp Kennedy said that the worker was shocked and upset and reported the incident to her manager.

Insp Kennedy said that Mr Gillam has no previous convictions but has come to the attention of the gardai. In the case, Mr Gillam pleaded guilty to engaging in threatening or abusive behaviour under the Public Order Act.

Judge Patrick Durcan described the incident as "very bad" adding "the effect it had on the girl was absolutely shocking". He said it was "an unusual case".

However, Mr Gillam yesterday walked away from court without any criminal sanction after Judge Durcan said that he would strike out the case if Mr Gillam paid €1,500 into the court poor box. Judge Durcan said that he was making this order due to the early guilty plea, Mr Gilliam's age and having no previous convictions, his co-operation with gardai and the DPP bringing a public order charge in relation to the incident.

Solicitor for Mr Gillam, John Casey said that the charge before the court was "very, very serious". Mr Casey that Mr Gillam wished to apologise to the girl and wished her no harm whatsoever. "This wasn't a crime with a sexual intent or of a sexual nature. It was a crime designed to cause shock and embarrassment to the individual involved," he said.

In reply, Judge Durcan said: "I don't follow and I cannot accept that there is no sexual aspect to this." Mr Casey said that Mr Gillam runs a guesthouse in Doolin where he lives with his girlfriend and parents.

He said: "This incident has caused Mr Gillam great embarrassment and he hasn't slept since. Nothing like this will ever, ever re-occur. He is not trying to downplay what he did and accepts the stress that it would have caused to this girl." Judge Durcan adjourned the case to November 23 for the payment of the €1,500.

Herald