http://www.nairaland.com/3055896/5-sets-persons-betrayed-jonathan
203
20
Nairaland Forum / Nairaland / General / Politics / 5 Sets Of Persons Who Betrayed Jonathan... And Nemesis Is Catching Up With Them (66353 Views)

Last AND Least The Yoruba PUNK ASSESS - Nemesis Is On Her Way / How PDP Leaders Betrayed Jonathan / 'Maku Has Betrayed Jonathan, PDP' – David Mark (1) (2) (3) (4)

(0) (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (Reply) (Go Down)

1. Bukola Saraki : He was the brain behind the nPDP, mocked the the then president but I’m sure he is full of regrets.



2 BBOG : One chief reason why the missing girls are still not found is that this group chose to politicise the whole thing. From daily sit outs to press releases, to processing they use every opportunity to abuse the then president but today, after a one off dinner, Buhari has no time for them again. The last meeting they held with him, he angrily walked out on them. And just last week when the sought the attension of his wife, she was more interested in beauty therapy. LOL



3 Benue indigene : The own reward for voting for the “change” scam is Fulani herdsmen ethnic cleansing



4. Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso: A PDP governor who sold out and contributed 2m vote is being ostracized by his new party both at home and national level.



5. Others lost on the way side include Tam West, Solodu, Falana, Oby, Atiku, Tinubu,........ 275 Likes 26 Shares

6. The Zombies , these are the most hit of the change mantra. They dedicate all their lives on the promises like 5000 stipend, free feeding , Nigeria will magically turn to heaven etc. They assured the world that there messiah is god sent . But the facts now is that they cry and suffer more than the bereaved. Ashame of complaining, many of them are coming out publicly to beg Jonathan and some of his ministers that they were deceive to vote against them. No electricity, no fuel, no money, no 5000,no free food,no economy everything inconclusive NO! NO! NO! NO! 484 Likes 40 Shares

...And oga Jona is somewhere chilling 238 Likes 22 Shares

Nice thread 115 Likes 11 Shares

saraki and bbog own sweet pass 182 Likes 17 Shares

Karmar is really a b*tch....there embarrassment is till loading 133 Likes 14 Shares

Luckylife:

6. The Zombies , are the most hit of the change mantra. They dedicate all their lives on the promises like 5000 stipend, free feeding , Nigeria will magical turn to heaven etc they assured the world that there messiah is god sent . But the facts now is that they cry and suffer more than the bereaved. Ashame of complaining, many of them are coming out publicly to beg Jonathan and some of his ministers that they were deceive to vote against them. No electricity, no fuel, no money, no 5000,no free food,no economy everything NO! NO! NO! NO! I Agree With You completely.

Some Zombies are still Wondering how on Earth they were all so Easily Deceived by a Set of People who have no Business been in Government.

179 Likes 18 Shares

hmmmmm



Unfortunately Nigerians have a very short memory. Before GEJ fuel scarcity was an everlasting way of life....Only Deziani changed it. We know she has her issues too.



I wish all these leaders could combine their strengths....But alas wishes aint horses! 201 Likes 15 Shares

that's one 3 Likes

They are still forming, with time they will confess. 69 Likes 5 Shares

Who e epp.....my advice to u o.p tough times dnt last but tough people do 18 Likes 2 Shares

frank1998:

Who e epp.....my advice to u o.p tough times dnt last but tough people do

C dem, u don become tough pple now,



Y u no tough when Jonathan dey dre.



Yeye dey smell. C dem, u don become tough pple now,Y u no tough when Jonathan dey dre.Yeye dey smell. 236 Likes 20 Shares

When you need abagworo, egift aka egoat, berem, cramjones and the rest of them APC e-rats one can't find them.



I guess maybe they are buying fuel at the official pump price. Yeye indeed dey really smell.



It's only a president that don't have ideas to solve problems that junket about the world. 96 Likes 10 Shares

Luckylife:

6. The Zombies , this are the must hit of the change mantra. They dedicate all their lives on the promises like 5000 stipend, free feeding , Nigeria will magical turn to heaven etc they assured the world that there messiah is god sent . But the facts now is that they cry and suffer more than the bereaved. Ashame of complaining, many of them are coming out publicly to beg Jonathan and some of his ministers that they were deceive to vote against them. No electricity, no fuel, no money, no 5000,no free food,no economy everything NO! NO! NO! NO! lol! Therez this salesman dat always come 2 my office 2 gv me epistles as to why buhari is D next best tin 2 happen 2 mankind After sliced bread. This guy at a time bcame almost a nightmare 2 me(in my own office o)he wud bring refeshments along and balance himself on my cushioned chair and start reelin epistles abt buhari and change,...

To cut a long story short,since january dis year ,when buhari's clueless govt began biting hard on nigerians,..I neva see ds guy 4 my office.anytime hez passin ma office,hez always on quik march,only casting furtive glances 2wards my entrance.

Maybe moni No evn dey 2 tk chop belle full,how much more 2 buy refreshments take com torment me inside office. lol! Therez this salesman dat always come 2 my office 2 gv me epistles as to why buhari is D next best tin 2 happen 2 mankind After sliced bread. This guy at a time bcame almost a nightmare 2 me(in my own office o)he wud bring refeshments along and balance himself on my cushioned chair and start reelin epistles abt buhari and change,...To cut a long story short,since january dis year ,when buhari's clueless govt began biting hard on nigerians,..I neva see ds guy 4 my office.anytime hez passin ma office,hez always on quik march,only casting furtive glances 2wards my entrance.Maybe moni No evn dey 2 tk chop belle full,how much more 2 buy refreshments take com torment me inside office. 315 Likes 32 Shares

stebell:

When you need abagworo, egift aka egoat, berem, cramjones and the rest of them APC e-rats one can't find them.



I guess maybe they are buying fuel at the official pump price. Yeye indeed dey really smell.



It's only a president that don't have ideas to solve problems that junket about the world.









I am observing, when the time comes you will read from me!



-CramJones I am observing, when the time comes you will read from me! 22 Likes 1 Share

All Diz blame no go bring light Come naija Or Bring Fuel.

So Make We Chill Till 2019, Then We Go Choose! 8 Likes 1 Share

naija2dabone:

1. Bukola Saraki : He was the brain behind the nPDP, mocked the the then president but I’m sure he is full of regrets.



2 BBOG : One chief reason why the missing girls are still not found is that this group chose to politicise the whole thing. From daily sit outs to press releases, to processing they use every opportunity to abuse the then president but today, after a one off dinner, Buhari has no time for them again. The last meeting they held with him, he angrily walked out on them. And just last week when the sought the attension of his wife, she was more interested in beauty therapy. LOL



3 Benue indigene : The own reward for voting for the “change” scam is Fulani herdsmen ethnic cleansing



4. Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso: A PDP governor who sold out and contributed 2m vote is being ostracized by his new party both at home and national level.



5. Others lost on the way side include Tam West, Solodu, Falana, Oby, Atiku, Tinubu,........ lol..they are all zombies. lol..they are all zombies. 64 Likes 9 Shares

so what next now, are they going to be giving an award?

stebell:

When you need abagworo, egift aka egoat, berem, cramjones and the rest of them APC e-rats one can't find them.

I guess maybe they are buying fuel at the official pump price. Yeye indeed dey really smell.

It's only a president that don't have ideas to solve problems that junket about the world.



To losers, everything that makes front page is a killer write up.



This is crap. and belongs to the trash can To losers, everything that makes front page is a killer write up.This is crap. and belongs to the trash can 27 Likes 4 Shares

3 Benue indigene : The own reward for voting for the “change” scam is Fulani herdsmen ethnic cleansing @omenka, is this true from the OP? @omenka, is this true from the OP? 28 Likes 3 Shares

cramjones:





I am observing, when the time comes you will read from me!



-CramJones

Dem say make meat hands up,



kpomo still dey raise hand... 132 Likes 11 Shares

people will start dropping saraki photo like they do to this man 27 Likes 2 Shares

..



I have a feeling all those facing trials, betrayed GEJ. the otuoke man is just watching as they are all being dealt with. am very happy about the sidelining of kwankwaso, he saw himself as another northern god or czar. ..I have a feeling all those facing trials, betrayed GEJ. the otuoke man is just watching as they are all being dealt with. am very happy about the sidelining of kwankwaso, he saw himself as another northern god or czar. 56 Likes 6 Shares

This is not nice. Number 3 especially.



So you're saying cos they dint vote for GEJ that's the reason they had to lose their people to fulani's invade.



SMH. Please learn to respect humans. It can happen to anyone. Don't make the death of those people politcal or nemesis. 53 Likes 6 Shares





Ema binu Saraki

Ema binu obiagelli

Ema binu kwankwaso

Ema binu gbogbo benue

Ema binu zombies. This is just the "Neme", by the time "sis" go join their life will be good as doomed.Ema binu SarakiEma binu obiagelliEma binu kwankwasoEma binu gbogbo benueEma binu zombies. 49 Likes 2 Shares

U have removed Amaechi's name coz before he became a minister his name came up severally on such useless list. 11 Likes 1 Share

cramjones:





I am observing, when the time comes you will read from me!



-CramJones

When a dollar equals one nairA right?



Or did i misquote thy master?...or when generating megawatts ceasee to become rocket science for uncle fash? Lol When a dollar equals one nairA right?Or did i misquote thy master?...or when generating megawatts ceasee to become rocket science for uncle fash? Lol 69 Likes 7 Shares

Luckylife:

6. The Zombies , this are the must hit of the change mantra. They dedicate all their lives on the promises like 5000 stipend, free feeding , Nigeria will magical turn to heaven etc they assured the world that there messiah is god sent . But the facts now is that they cry and suffer more than the bereaved. Ashame of complaining, many of them are coming out publicly to beg Jonathan and some of his ministers that they were deceive to vote against them. No electricity, no fuel, no money, no 5000,no free food,no economy everything NO! NO! NO! NO!

Some are already deactivating their accounts on Nairaland eg Obiagelli while some have already disowned Buhari and have vowed to make sure he is booted out in 2019 eg Beremx. Some are already deactivating their accounts on Nairaland eg Obiagelli while some have already disowned Buhari and have vowed to make sure he is booted out in 2019 eg Beremx. 68 Likes 7 Shares

Na wetin God want for Nigeria be that! They are just catalyst that speeds up the rate of reaction! 7 Likes 2 Shares