http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/mp-cries-parliament-honours-jo-9023916
130
13
Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

An MP wept in Parliament today as she honoured a murdered colleague's campaign against the "unspeakable evil" in Syria.

Alison McGovern was overcome by emotion as she urged Britain not to "unsee" the carnage in the city of Aleppo that has left countless thousands dead.

The Labour MP raised the prospect of a no-fly zone to halt the brutal, complexly factional civil war even if not backed by the UN Security Council.

And she honoured the White Helmets - volunteers who rush in after a strike.

But her speech faltered when she mentioned her murdered friend Jo Cox - who she has replaced leading Parliament's Friends of Syria group.

Colleagues comforted Labour MP Alison McGovern as she gave a tearful speech

Colleagues offered a hand of comfort as she gazed to the House of Commons ceiling.

"I cannot help noticing that in serving as co-chair of the Friends of Syria group," she said, pausing with emotion, "I am taking up the role of my friend Jo Cox.

“She would have been here and she would have known what was needed.

"And most of all I think she would have said that we should help refugees fleeing Syria. Not just 20,000 by 2020 but many more, much more quickly.

"Lastly, on London’s South Bank there is a memorial dedicated to the International Brigades - those who fought for democracy in the Spanish Civil War.

Getty Hundreds of thousands of people have died in the brutal five-year Syrian civil war

"On one side of the sculpture there is an inscription that reads: 'They went because their open eyes could see no other way.'

“In Syria today, the world is confronted by unspeakable evil and unimaginable suffering.

"Some of us might have hoped that the advent of social media and new means of technology might have opened eyes more even so than in the 1930s.

Getty A Syrian man carries the body of an infant from under rubble in Aleppo

Getty British MPs approved air strikes but are left in deadlock over Russia's involvement

"But the pictures we see make us want to close our eyes, to turn away from the horror.

"We cannot unsee what we have seen and we must not turn our backs on the greatest crime of our century.

"The people of Syria are suffering. Let us do everything we can."

Today's debate on Aleppo was granted after an urgent request by Friends of Syria co-chair Andrew Mitchell.

PA Murdered MP Jo Cox had led efforts in Parliament to help the people of Syria

He said by aiding Assad, Russia was behaving “like a rogue element - shredding international law” and abusing its security council veto.

He warned Assad could not be defeated with military force alone.

But he pointed to last week's attack on the M10 hospital, hit with bunker-busting bombs to break through the ceiling and cluster bombs to attack individual people.

“There is no doubt,” he says, “that this was an international war crimes.”

“They are doing to Aleppo what the Nazis did to Guernica ahead of the Second World War.”

Getty Andrew Mitchell said what the regime is doing to Aleppo, pictured, is a war crime

Hundreds of civilians died in ferocious 1937 Nazi bombing of the Spanish market town, which was mired in civil war. The scene was famously painted by Pablo Picasso.

In his first Commons speech since taking the job, Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson said: "This House and our constituents are disgusted by the behaviour of Assad and his regime.

"In Moscow and in Damascus I hope they will hear the message from British MPs that we are willing to consider anything, honestly and practically, that can be done to bring peace and hope back to Syria."

Tory MP Mr Mitchell was granted the three-hour debate in Parliament

But he warned: "This House is not committed to putting boots on the ground.

"We cannot commit to a no fly zone unless we are prepared to shoot down planes or helicopters that violate that zone.

"We need to think very carefully about the consequences.

"We must of course consult about this as widely as possible and I will certainly be talking to everyone involved in the 1991 effort to derive no fly zones over northern Iraq."

But Boris Johnson warned MPs to consider the consequences of shooting down jets

Hundreds of thousands of people have died in Syria's appalling five-year civil war.

What began as an uprising against authoritarian President Bashar Al-Assad in 2011 deepened when the so-called Islamic State terror group took hold of the city of Raqqa.

Britain was caught in a bind as MPs were desperate to crush IS but unwilling to do anything that could help Assad.

But Russia had no such qualms - with President Putin meeting Assad and providing help with extensive air strikes that appear to reach far beyond the rebels.

Getty The civil war in Syria has now raged for five years

Much of the city of Aleppo has been left in ruins and there have been attacks on innocents, aid convoys and hospitals.

The chaos has created a battle for international observers to prove exactly who is bombing who.

That clouds any attempt for Britain, whose MPs approved air strikes on IS targets in Syria in December, to get involved further.