http://www.thesundaily.my/news/1960042
203
20
PETALING JAYA: The rise of extremism in Malaysia should be tackled the same way communism was tackled, said former armed forces veteran Abdul Manaf Kasmuri (pix).

All agencies should form a concentrated effort and confront the issue at hand the way communism was weeded out years ago," he told theSun.

Manaf was a high ranking armed forces officer who has seen the communism threat in Malaysia stopped years ago and has served in Bosnia during the Bosnian war as a peacekeeper in 1993.

"There must be efforts to educate people that the views of Islamic State (IS) and other similar extremism are not accepted in Islam. It is not Islamic," he said, adding that Islamic organisations, mufti and ulama should play a part in such efforts.

Manaf said he sympathised with the oppressed Muslims in Bosnia and believed in fighting for them there. He had also supported a mujahideen group.

"Back then, 'jihad' meant defending the oppressed people from brutal and aggressive oppressors like in Bosnia where the Serbs were carrying out ethnic cleansing and genocides on Bosnian Muslims. Any fight based on those reasons is allowed by Islam and United Nations standards, which are supported."

He emphasized that the believes of militant groups like al-Qaeda and IS which advocates killing people and destroying properties indiscriminately is not accepted within Islam and he is firmly against it.

"In real jihad, we only deal with those directly involved with the conflicts within the specific location, time and objectives. We cannot take action outside conflict areas nor can we take revenge on anyone else."

Islam never condones killing old people, women and children nor does it support stopping other religions and destroying other houses of worship, he said.

Manaf was arrested in February 2003 for being sympathetic to militant groups.

He withdrew from supporting the groups when their ideologies became too extreme.

"I supported them when they wanted to fight for the oppressed. But I did not agree when innocent people of different believes were their victims. They had no boundaries, their ideology changed and became twisted. I will never support those who kill indiscriminately," he added.