http://mumbaimirror.indiatimes.com/news/india/PM-chanting-Jai-Sri-Ram-makes-BJP-Sangh-happy/articleshow/54802313.cms
138
13
Modi invokes Lord Ram in Lucknow as he vows to fight terror for security of humanity.



As the country celebrated the victory of good over evil on Dussehra on Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi also vowed to decimate terror for the “security of humanity.” Borrowing liberally from the Ramayana, Modi asked the people present at the ram Leela function at Aishbagh in Lucknow to be like Jatayu – the mythological vulture who sacrificed his life trying to saving Sita from Ravana – and fight terrorism.



Addressing a massive crowd at a Ram Leela celebration in Lucknow, the prime minister chanted ‘Jai Sri Ram’, much to the joy of the members of BJP cadre as well as RSS members present at the gathering.



According to sources, this is the first time that Modi has chanted Jai Sri Ram on a public platform.



While some saw PM’s invocation of Lord Ram as politically motivated, alluding to the Ayodhya Temple issue, party sources said that was not the case.



“The chant of Jai Sri Ram may be linked to Ayodhya temple movement, but the PM invoked Lord Ram at Ram Leela. There is no political angle to this.”



“What would you expect him to say at a Ram Leela? It is a religious function,” said BJP national secretary Srikant Sharma.



Exulting over Modi’s Ram chant, RSS spokesperson Manmohan Vaidya said the PM had "reflected" what people were celebrating in the country on Dusshera – “Triumph of good over evil”. Coming out in support of PM, Sangh ideologue Rakesh Singh said, “Sri Ram is an Indian cultural hero. If anybody embodies Indian ideals, it is him. For PM to chant his name is reiteration of Indian values. There is nothing sectarian about Lord Ram. If Indonesia, Malaysia can recognise Ram, why can't India?”



Boost for BJP



Meanwhile, party sources said that the prime minister’s strong stand against terrorism, and his reference to Ramayana, equating the battle of Lanka to the battle against terrorism has certainly earned him brownie points and given BJP a boost in UP, which is slated to go to polls.



In his speech at the Ram Leela, the Prime Minister also gave a whole new social dimension to Ravan, equating killing of the girl child as an act the demon king would have committed.