http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/shiv-sena-chief-uddhav-thackeray-dares-bjp-to-end-alliance-for-bmc-polls/1/785016.html
130
13
Highlights 1 Shiv Sena was off guard during last Vidhan Sabha elections: Uddhav Thackeray

2 Balasaheb believed that reservations should be given on economic status: Thackeray

3 Uddhav Thackeray supports the demand for Maratha reservations.

While praising PM Narendra Modi for the surgical strikes on one hand, Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray on the other hand dared the BJP to end the alliance for the BMC polls. Addressing the party's annual Dusshera rally at Shivaji Park in Central Mumbai, Uddhav also supported the demand for Maratha reservations.

Uddhav lauded the army and the Centre for the Surgical strikes. "It was a "manly" strike... I personally called the PM and congratulated him for the strikes. I told him that it is this 'Narendra Bhai that we want... But don't just stop at surgical strikes, next time take such an action that not only PoK, but the entire Pakistan should be known as a part of India...," Uddhav said.

ALSO READ |Uddhav Thackeray to blow BMC poll bugle at Shiv Sena's Dussehra rally

'WILL SHOW YOU WHAT SHIV SENA'S SURGICAL STRIKE IS'



Daring the BJP to snap ties Uddhav said, "We were off guard during last Vidhan Sabha elections. We never thought that someone with whom we have stayed for 25 years would backstab us. I dare you to break alliance and then come on us. Then we will show you what Shiv Sena's surgical strike is".

On the backdrop of the massive rallies by Maratha community, Uddhav supported the demand.

ALSO READ | Stop humiliating Sena MLAs or they will resign: Uddhav Thackeray to BJP

"Balasaheb always believed that reservations should be given on economic status and not on caste basis. Reservations to Maratha community must be given without touching the present reservation to others. Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis should show the same courage as shown by Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa to offer reservations beyond 50 per cent," Said Uddhav.

Uddhav, however, differed from his cousin Raj Thackeray's stand on scrapping the Atrocities Act. "If the law is being misused then appropriate changes in atrocity law are must, but with everyone's consent," he said.

ALSO READ | On Uddhav Thackeray's birthday, CM Fadnavis praises him as a 'true friend'



