http://www.timeslive.co.za/thetimes/2016/09/07/GDP-smile-wont-last
138
13
Statistics SA revealed that GDP rose 3.3% in the second quarter of this year, compared with a 1.2% contraction in the previous three months.

Economists were expecting growth of 2.6%.

"Mining was the biggest surprise, manufacturing has come up nicely, but agriculture was disappointing," said Xhanti Payi, an economist at Nascence Advisory and Research.

The main contributors to GDP, according to Stats SA, were manufacturing, which grew 8.1%, and mining, which expanded by 11.8%.

Manufacturing output grew because of increased production of petroleum, chemical products, rubber and motor vehicle and transport equipment.

"This has been helped by a stable labour and power supply," said Nedbank economist Isaac Mashego.

Lagging sectors were agriculture, forestry and fishing, which shrank 0.8%, and electricity, gas and water, which decreased 1.8%.

But economists warned that the improvements came off a low base. The strong growth number "potentially won't be sustained", Manisha Morar, an economist at ETM Analytics, said.

"The underlying drivers of economic growth remain weak."

The economy grew 0.6% from last year, and the concern is that it is far from the 3%-5% needed to fight unemployment.

"This shows that we have returned to normality this quarter, and that is better than a contraction," said economist Dawie Roodt of Efficient Group, who added the positive results would probably not have a major influence on the credit agencies' ratings review in December.

They would more likely be concerned with political interference in the economy, he said.

While Stats SA brought positive news about the economy yesterday, bankers, property owners, developers and industrial leaders gathered in Durban for the KwaZulu-Natal Growth Coalition business breakfast told government officials the lack of confidence in South Africa was chasing away investors.

"Business confidence has deteriorated as never before.

''Any responsible player who knows how South Africa functions will understand that the Reserve Bank and Treasury are the heart of the economy," said Moses Tembe, joint chairman of the coalition.