http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3742642/Meth-user-38-jailed-killing-16-year-old-girlfriend-crash.html
139
13
A drunk driver who was high on meth and told his teenage girlfriend 'I'll put you in a grave' the night he killed her could spend less than five years behind bars.

Sasho Ristovski, 28, had been going out with 16-year-old Maddison Tilyard for just three weeks when he lost control of his father's car and crashed into a tree.

Maddison was killed in the crash in Lavrton North, west Melbourne, in July 2014.

Ristovski, who has prominent face tattoos, last month pleaded guilty to dangerous driving causing death and reckless conduct endangering a person.

Sasho Ristovski (left), 28, lost control of his father's car and crashed into a tree in Laverton North in west Melbourne in July 2014, killing 16-year-old Maddison Tilyard (right)

He went through a roundabout, veered off course at 88km/h in an 80km/h zone, became airborne for five metres and hit a tree (scene pictured)

He was sentenced on Tuesday in the County Court of Victoria to a total of seven years in jail.

But Ristovski could be released in less than five years after Judge Frank Gucciardo set a non-parole period of four years and nine months.

Ristovski had picked up Maddison and her friend from a party in Craigieburn on the night of the crash.

He told Maddison 'I'll put you in a grave by the end of the night', before telling her friends 'I'll have you all in a grave', the court heard in his plea hearing.

Maddison had been going out with Ristovski for just three weeks at the time of the crash

Two weeks after the crash, Ristovksi tattooed his face with graphic symbols as a sign of remorse

Judge Gucciardo on Tuesday noted Ristovski's expression of self-loathing and his new-found abstinence

While driving the two teenagers Ristovski reached 210km/h and ignored Maddison's friend's plea to slow down.

After dropping the friend off, Ristovski continued driving with Maddison.

He went through a roundabout, veered off course at 88km/h in an 80km/h zone, became airborne for five metres and hit a tree.

Ristovski had a blood alcohol level of 0.064 and methamphetamines in his system.

Judge Gucciardo told him in court: 'Your actions and utterances on the night showed you were fully aware of the risks you were exposing your passengers to.'

Ristovski had a blood alcohol level of 0.064 and methamphetamines in his system

Two weeks after the crash, Ristovksi tattooed his face with graphic symbols as a sign of remorse.

Judge Gucciardo on Tuesday noted Ristovski's expression of self-loathing and his new-found abstinence.

Ristovski's abuse of alcohol and drugs started when he was 13, the court was told.

He was bullied as a teenager and possibly had a mild acquired brain injury from drug use and multiple head injuries.

Ristovski picked up Maddison from a party and told her: 'I'll put you in a grave by the end of the night'