http://www.express.co.uk/news/uk/714080/Junior-doctors-overtime-pay-far-outstrips-what-emergency-services-earn-NHS-BMA-jenkyns
130
13
GETTY Junior doctors rejected a deal where their pay would far outstrip that of emergency services

They have been offered a deal which is worth almost four times the overtime paid to the police for weekend and late night shifts. Meanwhile firefighters receive no additional pay for working weekends and antisocial hours.

The overtime rates being offered to junior doctors are a fantastic deal and are the envy of other NHS and emergency service workers Andrea Jenkyns

Other NHS workers, including consultants and nurses, also receive lower overtime rates than those proposed for the junior doctors, who will receive at least “time plus 37 per cent” for working at night and over the weekend. It could rise to time plus 47 per cent. Despite the generous package offered to junior doctors, the British Medical Association still insists it is not enough and doctors will down tools next week for the first five-day strike.

GETTY They would earn four times the overtime paid to the police for weekend and late night shifts

Last night Conservative MP Andrea Jenkyns, who sits on the influential Health Select Committee, said: “The overtime rates being offered to junior doctors are a fantastic deal and are the envy of other NHS and emergency service workers.

Junior doctors' strike: All-out stoppage has begun Tue, April 26, 2016 Thousands of junior doctors are staging the first all-out strike in the history of the NHS after the Health Secretary made it clear a new contract will go ahead. Play slideshow SWNS.com 1 of 94 Junior doctors striking outside St Thomas' Hospital in London

“It is totally unjustified for doctors to demand higher premium rates at weekends while almost all other NHS workers and others across the economy don’t get them. Firefighters don’t get any additional cash while police officers get a fraction of the overtime paid to junior doctors – despite the fact that these public servants often put their lives on the line in the course of duty.

PH Andrea Jenkyns said the overtime rates were a 'fantastic deal'

“The BMA’s actions, striking over a contract they themselves recommended and brokered, shows this is nothing more than a political strike originating from dangerous Corbynista ideology.”

Figures released by the Department of Health show that police officers are only paid “time plus 10 per cent” for working nights, while prison officers are only paid “time plus 17 per cent”. Within the health service, consultants are paid “time plus 33 per cent” while nurses are paid “time plus 30 per cent” for working Saturdays, however this rises to “time plus 60 per cent” on Sundays.

PH Philip Dunne said in most cases junior doctors would be paid better than other health professionals