http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/719918/EU-migrants-Paris-terrorist-attack-Hungary-PM-Viktor-Orban-Brussels
138
13
GETTY Terrorist bloodbath in Paris could be tomorrow’s atrocity in any European city, Mr Orban says

He said the stakes were too high for Brussels to play politics with unchecked immigration and called for an immediate end to EU migrant quotas – or risk the very security of Europe itself.

The mandatory resettlement quotas must be removed from the European Union’s agenda, once and for all Hungarian PM Viktor Orban

Mr Orbán said: “The mandatory resettlement quotas must be removed from the European Union’s agenda, once and for all.” “In the event of a major population movement, a mandatory resettlement quota mechanism with no upper limit on numbers could destroy the results which we have achieved, and could destroy everything we have worked so hard for.

“Europe is not a transit zone and Hungary is not a transit zone.” Referring to the Hungarian referendum, where 3.3 million people voted against the mandatory quotas, Mr Orban stressed that the nation’s unity was unquestionable. He said: “Since 1990, the beginning of Hungarian democracy, no referendum has demonstrated such overwhelming unity of will.

GETTY Members of the public gather to lay flowers and light candles following the terrorist attack

“Three million three hundred thousand people have expressed their united will, and this fact cannot be ignored.” Mr. Orbán accepted because of a low turn out the referendum had no constitutional legitimacy but asked that Parliament should now accept the will of the people. In order to do this, he is ready to amend the Hungarian Constitution while remaining within the boundaries of the European legal system.

Migrant Crisis Revisited: Then and Now Wed, July 27, 2016 In these composite images, a comparison has been made between a scene at a key location during the height of the 2015 migrant crisis last year and the situation there now Play slideshow Getty Images 1 of 11 In this composite image a comparison has been made between a scene at a key location during the height of the 2015 migrant crisis last year and the situation there now

He said: "The Constitution must be amended, in order to ensure that the Hungarian parliament alone has the authority to decide whom we live together with. ”The Hungarian Fundamental Law must be supplemented to stipulate that no one may impose any mandatory resettlement quotas on the Hungarian people.“ Mr Orban believes that Europe’s safety is in danger, and by letting more migrants cross the borders, criminals and terrorists arrive.

GETTY 'The mandatory resettlement quotas must be removed from the European Union’s agenda'

He said: “We do not want criminals and we do not want acts of terrorism either, but we want to protect the security of our citizens, and the results we have achieved. “Hundreds of thousands of migrants illegally crossed Hungarian territory. This is not a theoretical problem, but reality.

GETTY 'Hundreds of thousands of migrants illegally crossed Hungarian territory,' Orban stressed