http://www.news.com.au/world/asia/philippines-president-rodrigo-duterte-suggests-break-up-with-us-says-you-can-go-to-hell/news-story/72e190b77e475eaa2ef5c0247859ae82
130
13
Video

Image Duterte to Obama: "Go to hell" 0:29 Philippines president Rodrigo Duterte suggests 'break up' with US, says "you can go to hell".

Staff writers AP

PHILIPPINE leader Rodrigo Duterte has told US President Barack Obama “you can go to hell” in a speech that was his strongest tirade so far against the US over its criticism of his deadly anti-drug campaign.

Mr Duterte also added that he may eventually decide to “break up with America.”

Also in the firing line was the European Union, saying the bloc, which has also criticised his brutal crackdown, “better choose purgatory, hell is filled up.”

Since becoming president in June, Mr Deterte has had an uneasy relationship with the US and with Mr Obama and has declared intentions to bolster relations with China and Russia as he revamps Philippine foreign policy that has long leaned on Washington.

The brash-speaking leader also has been hypersensitive to criticism over his anti-drug crackdown, which has left more than an estimated 3000 suspected drug dealers and pushers dead in just three months, alarming the United Nations, the EU, the U.S. and human rights watchdogs.

In a speech before a local convention attended by officials and business executives, Mr Duterte outlined his disappointments with the US, which has asked his government to stop the widespread killings and has questioned whether human rights are being violated. He also described Washington as an unreliable ally, saying Filipino forces have not benefited from joint combat exercises with US troops.

“Instead of helping us, the first to criticise is this State Department, so you can go to hell, Mr. Obama, you can go to hell,” Mr Duterte said.

Then addressing the EU, he said: “Better choose purgatory, hell is filled up.”

In a later speech at a synagogue in Makati city in the Manila metropolis, Mr Duterte warned he may decide to “break up with America” in his most serious threat so far to push relations back with Washington.

“Eventually I might, in my time, I will break up with America,” he said without elaborating. “I would rather go to Russia and to China.”

Mr Duterte has given assurances that he would not abrogate a 1951 Mutual Defense Treaty with the US and will maintain the long alliance with America, one of his country’s largest trading partners and provider of development and military aid and defence equipment.

The US has expressed concern over the extrajudicial killings and urged Mr Duterte’s government to ensure law enforcement efforts comply with human rights obligations. Last month, Mr Obama cancelled a planned first meeting with Mr Duterte on the sidelines of an Asian summit in Laos after the Filipino leader blurted “son of a b*tch” in warning the US leader not to lecture him on human rights ahead of their meeting.

Mr Duterte later expressed regrets over his remarks. Angered by US criticism, Mr Duterte has made a series of public pronouncements that he could scale back the activities and presence of visiting US troops in the country.

Last week, Mr Duterte said the joint US-Philippine combat exercises to be held this week, the first of his presidency, would also be the last of his tenure. The exercises, centring on amphibious landing drills, started on Tuesday under some uncertainty because of those remarks.

Marine commanders from both sides said at the opening ceremony that the exercises, involving 1100 American and 400 Filipino military personnel, are aimed at improving readiness by the two countries to respond to a range of crises while deepening their historic ties.

US Embassy officials said Washington has not been formally notified by the Philippine government of any move to scrap other planned drills. Such a move by the Philippines would impede Washington’s plans to expand the footprint of US forces in Southeast Asia to counter China.

A Philippine military spokesman for the ongoing exercises, Captain Ryan Lacuesta, sidestepped the question of whether Mr Duterte’s remarks have affected the troops and the atmosphere of the drills.

US Marine Brig. Gen. John Jansen said that aside from promoting regional security, the exercises have helped save lives in terms of fostering more rapid and organised responses to disasters like Typhoon Haiyan in 2013.

“Our alliance remains a key source of stability in the Asia-Pacific region,” Brig. Gen. Jansen said, expressing confidence “that we will continue to build our partnership and capabilities together.”

While the Obama administration maintains that its alliance with the Philippines remains “iron-clad,” a senior US diplomat cautioned Mr Duterte last week against more anti-US posturing. Many of Mr Duterte’s stunning pronouncements have typically been walked back by other Philippines officials.

“I think it would be a serious mistake in a democratic country like the Philippines to underestimate the power of the public’s affinity for the US. That’s people power,” Assistant Secretary of State Daniel Russel told The Associated Press.

Mr Russel did not draw a direct comparison, but past Philippine presidents have been toppled by popular protests dubbed “people power,” including former dictator Ferdinand Marcos, who was ousted in 1986.