http://www.iol.co.za/dailynews/news/six-arrested-as-uct-disruptions-continue-2075664
130
13
Protests also erupted at the University of the Western Cape where protesters tried to force staff and students to leave certain buildings.

Cape Town - Six protesters were arrested at UCT as disruptions at the institution continued for a third week while Cape Peninsula University of Technology (CPUT) announced that classes at all of its campuses have been suspended.

Classes were suspended at CPUT after protesting students disrupted lectures and drove other students out of their faculties as part of the ongoing #FeesMustFall campaign. Picture: Phando Jikelopic.

Classes were suspended at CPUT after protesting students disrupted lectures and drove other students out of their faculties as part of the ongoing #FeesMustFall campaign. Picture: Phando Jikelopic. Credit: Independent Media

At UCT the six people were arrested after a lecture in the PD Hahn building was disrupted on Monday.

“The six were warned that their actions were unlawful and that they should leave the premises. They refused and were arrested. They were taken to a police station and charges are being laid. If they are found to be UCT students, disciplinary action, including possible suspension, will follow,” Gerda Kruger, the university’s executive director of communication and marketing said in an announcement to the campus community.

Despite the disruptions the university indicated in a statement that it remained committed to “going forward with classes this week”.

“We moved our position on their demands to a point where we were willing to even suspend the university’s disciplinary outcomes so that classes could open peacefully. We agreed to external mediators and commissioners for an Institutional Reconciliation and Transformation Commission. We prepared a draft resolution to this effect. Unfortunately, the students rejected this resolution. They appear to be trying to push UCT into a potential indefinite shutdown.”

Earlier in the day students blocked the north and south entry points to the upper campus which led to the disruption of the Jammie shuttle services.

Phakama Ntentema of the Progressive SRC Candidate movement, an umbrella body of all but two student movements, said engagements with the university management had reached a “deadlock”.

"At these meetings management didn’t want to hear anything we had to say. They were only there to stress the fact that the university should reopen,” he said.

Ntentema said for the past three weeks students have been calling on the university to lift suspension bans on five of the students who were arrested during the Shackville protest, earlier this year.

He said in addition they wanted the university to deal with the fees issue, outsourcing and other demands which have been requested by satellite campuses.

Last week vice-chancellor Dr Max Price warned that if the shutdown goes beyond three weeks the university would not be able to complete the academic year.

Meanwhile, at CPUT Bellville Campus students rejected vice-chancellor Dr Prins Nevhutalu’s response to a list of demands submitted to him on Friday. On Monday UWC spokesman Luthando Tyhalibongo said protesters had not responded to a meeting request from the deputy vice-chancellor, Professor Pamela Dube.