http://www.tribune.net.ph/metro/after-rizal-avenue-erap-bans-parking-along-quezon-boulevard
130
13
Park at your own risk.

Manila Mayor Joseph “Erap” Estrada issued this warning yesterday to motorists who habitually park along the stretch of Quezon Boulevard in Quiapo.

Following the success of a massive road clearing operation on Rizal Avenue on September 15, Estrada has also declared Quezon Boulevard a no-parking zone, meaning that any illegally parked vehicles would be immediately towed away on sight. No questions asked.

“Quezon Boulevard is a vital thoroughfare leading to Quiapo Church. For the convenience of the Nazarene devotees, as well as the thousands of people doing business in Quiapo, I have decided to also ban parking along this critical highway,” Estrada said.

While he acknowledged that vehicle owners frequenting Quiapo may need to make some adjustments, Estrada believes the public will understand as “this is for their own good.”

“All it’ll take from them is a little discipline. We need to get the cooperation of everybody if we want to bring back order in our streets,” he added.

“Or they may still park, but at their own risks. They should be ready for the consequences,” Estrada warned.

Estrada has ordered Dennis Alcoreza, chief of the Manila Traffic and Parking Bureau (MTPB), to see to it that the no-parking rule along Quezon Boulevard is strictly enforced.

Alcoreza has formed Task Force Quezon Boulevard to go after motorists that park along the roadway, including those who collect illegal parking fees.

“Once you’re spotted, we will immediately tow away your vehicle. That’s the way it is,” the MTPB chief warned, adding that the presence of illegally parked vehicles has, for years, been a major reason why Quezon Boulevard is always congested.

Originally built in 1939 as a six- to 10-lane road, Quezon Boulevard starts from Lerma Street in Sampaloc and stretches up Quezon Bridge and Palanca Street.

It passes through Manila’s major landmarks such as Quiapo Church, Plaza Miranda, Quinta Market, and the popular Raon Street, dubbed as the country’s “electronics capital.”

Alcoreza called on the barangay officials to refrain from tolerating illegal parking by collecting fees from vehicle owners.

He said he has received reports that some barangay officials in the city are working in cahoots with Tokagawa Global Corp., a private firm that won a questionable parking management contract with then Manila Mayor Afredo Lim.

“We even heard that some barangays and Tokagawa have been fighting over money, their parking fee collections,” Alcoreza said.

Under the 25-year deal that Estrada has been fighting to be nullified, Tokagawa would charge parking fees on motorists in designated areas. But only 20 percent of the proceeds go to the city government, a scheme that the Commission on Audit has ruled to be “disadvantageous” to the government.

During a clearing operation on Rizal Avenue on September 15, a total of 30 tricycles, five motorcycles, 15 light vehicles and two “kuligligs” or motorized pedicabs were towed away by MTPB traffic enforcers.



