http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/uri-attack-bjp-shahnawaz-hussain-congress-pm-modi/1/770069.html
130
13
Highlights 1 Shahnawaz has accused the Congress of not trusting our security forces.

2 Congress targeted Modi, holding him singularly responsible for the disarray.

3 Congress speaking their voice is shameful: Hussain

The BJP has taken a strong exception to the Congress launching a frontal attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the Uri terror attack, terming it "shameful".

Speaking to India Today Digital, BJP's national spokesperson Syed Shahnawaz Hussain said, "We can still understand when Pakistan attacks us. But Congress speaking their voice is shameful."

After the Uri attack, the Congress targeted Modi, holding him "singularly responsible for the complete disarray" in the government's policy vis-Ã -vis Pakistan. Congress' chief spokesman Randeep Singh Surjewala had alleged that the Uri attack, which was planned and executed by Pakistan, was the result of "failure" of Modi government's political leadership. He had also alleged that the tragedy was the result of a massive intelligence and operational failure inside the government.



SEEKING A SOLUTION FROM CONGRESS

Shahnawaz accused the Congress of not trusting our security forces. He asked the opposition party to explicitly state whether it wanted India to go to war. He also asked them to suggest any idea, if they had any, to tackle the issue.

"This is not the time to do politics. The country should repose complete faith in the security forces and the government," he said.



DEFENDING BJP'S ATTACK ON MANMOHAN GOVERNMENT

Reminded that the BJP, as the opposition party, had also indulged in politics, Shahnawaz said they had criticised the Congress-led UPA government when the then prime minister Manmohan Singh compromised India's position on Pakistan in Egyptian resort of Sharm-el Sheikh. The Congress-led UPA government had accepted a reference to Balochistan, emboldening Pakistan to accuse India of involvement in fomenting insurgency in the region.

RESPONDING TO '56-INCH CHEST' AND '10 HEADS FROM PAKISTAN' JIBES



The senior BJP leader accused the Congress of being selective while attacking the Modi government. "They point out incidents like Gurdaspur, Pathankot, Pampore and Uri, but they should also mention the scores of attacks which our security forces have foiled well in time," the former Union minister said.

He was responding to Congress' "56-inch chest" jibe on Modi and "bringing 10 heads from Pakistan" dig on External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj. The Congress called these Modi's "jumlas" (rhetorical statements).

As BJP's prime ministerial candidate in the run up to the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, Modi had said it needed a 56-inch chest to turn Uttar Pradesh into Gujarat. However, the opposition parties have been attacking the PM with reference to the terror attacks on Indian security forces.

ALSO READ: - Uri attack: Parrikar seeks report from Army on how terrorists managed to infiltrate camp

On the other hand, as the then Leader of Opposition in the Lok Sabha, Sushma had asked the UPA government to get at least 10 heads from Pakistan if Indian soldier Hemraj's head could not be brought back from the neighbouring country.

However, the Congress is wrongly attributing this "10 heads" remark to Modi while attacking him over the Uri attack.

SECURITY FORCES WILL SURELY STRIKE BACK

Shahnawaz hit back at the Congress by saying that the Modi government had indeed been speaking in the same language that Pakistan understands. "Just yesterday, our security forces killed 10 infiltrators... The armed forces and the government will decide when and how to strike at the enemy... We will satisfy the nation, not the Congress," he said.

Asked what lessons had the Modi government learned from terror attacks in Udhampur, Gurdaspur, Pathankot and Pampore, which had taken place before Uri, the BJP spokesperson indicated that a larger plan was afoot to banish terrorism from Pakistan.

READ| Jaish-e-Mohammed leader Masood Azhar among 3 Pakistanis India believes are behind the Uri attack

"Pakistan is a threat to the entire world. The roots of terrorism in Pakistan will have to be removed to check terrorism... That country is being isolated and exposed... All the countries have sided with India in the ongoing UN General Assembly session... The government won't reveal it but will surely strike at an opportune time," he said.

MODI NOT SOFT ON PAKISTAN

Shahnawaz also responded to the Congress' charge that Modi was soft on Pakistan, having indulged in saree-shawl diplomacy, unscheduled visits to Pakistan to attend wedding celebrations and birthday parties with his Pakistani counterpart Nawaz Sharif. He said Modi had displayed large-heartedness and maturity by extending a hand of friendship to Pakistan.

"Humne koshish mein kami nahi ki, unhone badmashi mein kami nahi ki (We were not found wanting in trying to normalise relations, they [Pakistan] were not found wanting in being notorious," Shahnawaz said in an impromptu rhyme.

RJD-JD(U) MATCH-FIXING ON SHAHABUDDIN

The senior BJP leader accused Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and RJD supremo Lalu Prasad of being hand-in-glove on mafia don-cum-politician Shahabuddin. "It is match fixing between the JD(U) and the RJD," he said.

He took a dig at Lalu and said for the RJD leaders, social service is being convicted, going to jail and getting bail. He said both Lalu and Shahabuddin were out on bail after being convicted by court in criminal cases. He said the Bihar government was forced to challenge in the Supreme Court the Patna High Court's order granting bail to the Siwan don.

Shahnawaz reiterated that 'Jungle Raj' had indeed returned to Bihar. This has been well demonstrated in the case of the Siwan judge who sentenced Shahabuddin to life imprisonment, seeking a transfer from the town as soon as the don got out of jail.

Also read - Uri attack: India to respond at multiple levels, but will the stand be aggressive?

Also read - Uri attack: Pakistan can't go unpunished, PM Modi has approved effective retaliation