http://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/home-news/migrants-day-action-british-society-a7355791.html
138
13
Migrant workers and their supporters are planning a day of action to highlight their role in the UK and celebrate the contribution they make to British life.

The event, called One Day Without Us, is set to include a labour boycott to highlight the importance of migrants to the country's workforce.

Organiser Matt Carr urged migrants and their supporters take part in the day of action, scheduled for 20 February 2017.

He said he decided to set up the event was due to concerns about worsening attitudes to migrants within the UK following the referendum vote to leave the European Union in June.

“We want to make this an inclusive event," Mr Carr told The Guardian.

We realise that because of the legal constraints on striking, many workers will not be able to take formal strike action. However, they can choose to support this event simply by taking the day off work.”

He said he was surprised the event had gathered momentum so quickly. Despite initially starting life in a closed Facebook group, Mr Carr said there were now about 6,000 people involved.

The day of action, scheduled to coincide with the UN’s World Day of Social Justice, is based on a similar events that have taken place in both the US and Italy in recent years.

Refugees welcome here: Protesters demand UK resettle more migrants in response to refugee crisis







7 show all Refugees welcome here: Protesters demand UK resettle more migrants in response to refugee crisis











1/7 The Solidarity With Refugees group said Saturday’s protest aimed to “show our Government and the world that Britain is ready to welcome more refugees”. Rex Features

2/7 People march through central London as they take part in a protest rally organised by Solidarity with Refugees in a bid to urge the Government to take more action on the migrant crisis Press Association

3/7 The protest comes days before world leaders meet to discuss crisis at UN General Assembly Press Association

4/7 Demonstrators made their way from Park Lane to Parliament Square in London on Saturday afternoon Press Association

5/7 Marchers chanted “refugees are welcome here” and waved banners reading “no-one is illegal” and “let’s help people” Press Association

6/7 The march was supported by charities and groups including the Red Cross, Asylum Aid, Save the Children, Hope Not Hate, Oxfam and the UN Refugee Agency Rex Features

7/7 In the wake of Alan’s death, David Cameron pledged to resettle 20,000 Syrian refugees in the UK over the coming five years but there have been additional calls to re-home those who have already reached Europe, as well as asylum seekers coming from other conflict zones such as Iraq and Afghanistan Rex Features

The aim is to highlight the essential work migrants do in key sectors of the national economy, including the NHS. The organisers say a day without migrant labour will underline just how much the UK would struggle without their contribution.

Mr Carr said he was hopeful that employers who relied on migrant labour would support the action and shut their businesses for the day.

“Since Brexit we have seen levels of xenophobia and racism that have been increasingly legitimised," he said.

"We want to make a bold and powerful statement and give migrants an opportunity to express themselves."