http://www.india.com/news/india/mann-ki-baat-live-streaming-narendra-modi-to-adress-nation-after-uri-attack-1511919/
130
13
New Delhi, September 25: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation on Sunday morning through the 24th edition of Mann Ki Baat. The monthly radio show of Narendra Modi comes a week after the deadly attack in Uri attack which claimed lives of 18 Indian soldiers and injured more than 30. This will be Narendra Modi second public address after Uri attack, as he addressed the huge crowd on Saturday evening at Calicut, Kerala. Mann Ki Baat a half an hour radio address will start at 11:00 am and will end at 11:30 am. Here at India.com you can here PM Modi’s Mann Ki Baat directly through the Live Streaming link given below.

The show is live broadcast on channels like Doordarshan, DD News, Rajya Sabha TV, Narendra Modi app, BJP Live Channel on Youtube and many other private news channels. the show is also available on all major platforms like All India Radio (AIR). Most of the political parties are waiting for Prime Minister Narendra Modi to speak about his action plan on Uri attack as he did yesterday. On Saturday PM Modi conveyed a message to the people of Pakistan and invoked the pre-Independence connection with India. Narendra Modi also called for a war against poverty, illiteracy, and unemployment.

“I want to remind the people of Pakistan that before 1947, your ancestors called this land their home. I want you, the people of Pakistan to question your government. They are unable to handle their domestic crises in Gilgit, Balochistan, and Sindh. They failed in east Bangladesh, but want to rake up Kashmir? Ask your government to first put their own home in order before worrying about Kashmir,” Narendra Modi said in the public address at Kozhikode where senior BJP’s functionary was present for the National Council Meet.

Apart from Uri attack, PM Modi is likely to speak on Cauvery water crisis which has brought two states – Karnataka and Tamil Nadu – on a brink of war with each other. Dwellers of both the state are hoping that PM Modi might speak on the crisis and offer a long lasting solution to the problem. Also Read – Mann Ki Baat today: PM Narendra Modi expected to address the nation on Cauvery water-sharing dispute

Mann Ki Baat to be aired in regional languages

Mann Ki Baat the famous radio show of PM Modi will be soon broadcast across the country in various regional languages, along with his original Hindi address. The move is aimed to ensure PM Modi’s message is spread across the country by overcoming linguistic barriers between states.

The show will also be broadcast by the Urdu and Hindi Services of the External Services of All India Radio for the Indian Diaspora living outside the country, and by the General Overseas Service.

Watch Live Streaming Here: Narendra Modi’s Mann Ki Baat

