http://www.wsj.com/articles/why-samsungs-dud-phones-will-cause-lasting-damage-1476174683
133
13
Samsung ’s latest smartphone recall strikes more than just a false note with consumers. The company’s decision to get rid of the phone altogether may be the right move, but keeping its coveted perch next to Apple at the high end of the smartphone market has suddenly become a much larger task.

The South Korean tech giant said Tuesday it would permanently discontinue its Galaxy Note 7 smartphones. For a population of smartphone-addicted consumers, this will prompt a frenzied search for alternatives.

Samsung began a global recall of 2.5 million Note 7s more than a month ago, after some of the devices had reportedly exploded due to faulty batteries. At the time, it seemed to be on top of the problem, recognizing it for what it was and acting. But the replacement phones seemed to be duds, too, with these supposedly safe substitutes exhibiting overheating problems.

ENLARGE Samsung Galaxy S7 mobile phones on display at the Olympic Park in Rio de Janeiro in August. Photo: Agence France-Presse/Getty Images

While defective gadgets aren’t uncommon, flaws on replacement devices that have supposedly fixed the problem are rare—and very damaging to the brand. Samsung may have initially rushed the Note 7 to beat the iPhone 7 to market. It then seems to have rushed the recall to stanch the damage. Apple released the iPhone 7 last month, and it is selling well so far. A more dangerous competitor may be other Android phones. Google, for instance, released its newest high-end smartphones, Pixel and Pixel XL, last week.

The harm to Samsung will certainly exceed the 1 trillion won ($902 million) originally expected by analysts. Nomura, for example, said the company’s operating profit could take a total hit of 5.7 trillion won for this quarter and next year in the worst-case scenario, including lost sales and write-downs.

But the direct cost could be secondary. Samsung and Apple are effectively the only players in high-end smartphones, where most of the profits are, leaving other phone makers scrambling for crumbs in cheaper phones. Samsung managed to sell its smartphones at a premium partly because of consumers’ trust in the brand. Once that trust is tarnished, it is hard to earn it back. Samsung’s market-leading technologies in displays and memory chips may give it some edge, but even cheaper phones from rivals nowadays have features that were once reserved for the top models.

The latest recall news sent Samsung’s stock down 8% Tuesday. Samsung’s share-price plunge could be cushioned by its strong component business. If it can’t regain consumers’ confidence, that could be all it’s left with.

Write to Jacky Wong at jacky.wong@wsj.com