http://blogs.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/talkingturkey/strategic-games-instead-of-protesting-russias-ties-with-pakistan-government-must-look-within/
150
15
Ahead of the annual India-Russia summit on the sidelines of the BRICS summit in Goa, it’s interesting to read that New Delhi has lodged a ‘protest’ with Moscow over the latter’s recent anti-terror joint military exercise with Pakistan. Apparently, the Indian side has conveyed its view that Russian military cooperation with Pakistan, which sponsors terrorism, isn’t kosher. Russia had held its first-ever joint military exercise with the Pakistani army in Pakistan last month. The exercise had been planned well in advance. Hence, to emphasise the fact that it took place just days after the Uri terror strike in Kashmir would be misleading.

But what is surprising is New Delhi’s apparent shock over the development. Are we to believe that our foreign policy strategists sitting in the high echelons of government didn’t see this coming? If so, then we should prepare for many more similar shocks in the near future. A cursory reading of the geopolitical situation makes it clear that a great churning is underway. Several factors have triggered this including the situation in the Middle East and the US’s pivot towards Asia. As a result, China and Russia have enhanced their relationship further while India – although officially professing neutrality – has moved closer to the US. The latter is best exemplified by the inking of the Logistics Exchange Memorandum Of Agreement (LEMOA) between New Delhi and Washington.

I am assuming that those in charge of India’s foreign policy have had good reason to effect these strategic shifts and compacts. But one would also imagine that they are willing to accept the cost of these adjustments. If that is indeed the case, they would also know that the growing Russia-Pakistan relationship is a natural outcome. After all, if we can make realignments so can other countries. If we change the status quo, countries like Russia will respond according to their own strategic interests.

Besides, geographically speaking, Pakistan’s strategic importance cannot be understated. It stands on the crossroads of Central, South, and East and West Asia. It’s an important link country for China’s Silk Road Economic Belt project, which Russia has committed to facilitate. Given this scenario, if India wants Russia and China to cut back on ties with Pakistan, it must provide them will compelling reasons to do so. And the Pakistan-is-a-terror-sponsor argument won’t work. Clearly, Moscow and Beijing believe that the solution to the terror problem lies in strengthening the state institutions in Pakistan.

Foreign policy is like a chess game. If a player wants to gain, he must be willing to incur losses. And it’s his job to ensure that the losses are acceptable. Being taken by surprise or expressing disappointment at another player’s moves is just poor planning. All scenarios need to be factored in before a strategic shift is effected. And this is where the BJP government with its perpetual election mode needs to be careful.