http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/puducherry/sufficient-central-armed-police-force-deployed-says-chief-electoral-officer/article8605994.ece
150
15
Conduct of any exit polls prohibited up to 6.30 p.m.; Aadhaar card not in list

Over 9.41 lakh voters are expected to exercise their franchise during Assembly polls to be held on Monday in 930 polling booths across the Union Territory. Three hundred and forty-four candidates are in the fray in 30 constituencies of Union Territory of Puducherry.

Addressing reporters here, the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) V.Candavelou said all arrangements were in place for polls which will be held from 7 a.m to 6 p.m on Monday without any break. Over 6,000 police personnel, 5,000 polling personnel and 1,700 student volunteers will involve in the entire poll process.”

“Inducement to voters is totally prohibited. A distance of 100 metres from polling booth is demarcated as sterilised zone and no one should canvass for votes. Two hundred and thirty-six vulnerable hamlets covering 148 polling stations have been identified and will be manned by Central Armed Police Force (CAPF). Sufficient companies of CAPF have been deployed in polling stations and other vulnerable locations,” said Mr. Candavelou. Across Puducherry, 96 flying squads and 36 static surveillance squads will closely monitor the situation.

The electors have to produce their elector-photo identity cards (EPICs) or authenticated voter slip or any one of the 10 alternative documents as proof of identification. Aadhaar card is not listed as one of alternative documents prescribed by the Election Commission of India, the CEO added. Government employees who have not voted so far, should cast their votes through postal ballots and send the same to the concerned Returning Officers. Postal ballots which are received after 8 a.m on Thursday will not be counted.

Voters have been requested not to bring mobile phones, cameras and other electronic devices to the polling station. The officials also stated that the General Observer would scrutinize the presiding officer’s diary on Tuesday. Following that, the Commission would decide whether the repoll would be necessary or not, they said.

Mr. Candavelou also said the conduct of any exit/opinion polls and publishing the result of such poll by means of print or electronic media or dissemination in any other manner has been prohibited up to 6.30 p.m on Monday.

The CEO also said 139 cases have been filed for poll code violation. Of these, 58 cases were registered against the political parties. Rs.6.57 crore cash were seized so far by flying squad and out of which Rs.4.49 crore were returned after due verification of documents. The remaining Rs.2.08 crore has been under investigation. Liquor valued at Rs.25.19 lakh has also been seized. Over 100 people have been arrested for excise violations and Rs. 8 lakh worth of household articles have been seized.