http://indianexpress.com/article/cities/chandigarh/chaos-marks-aap-protest-mohali-residents-feel-the-heat-2804520/
154
15
AAP workers during the protest at Chandigarh -Punjab Border in Sector 51, Chandigarh, on Monday. AAP workers during the protest at Chandigarh -Punjab Border in Sector 51, Chandigarh, on Monday.

CHAOS PREVAILED in the city throughout the day due to a massive protest by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) against the alleged multi-crore foodgrain scam in Punjab.

Scores of AAP workers led by party leaders, including Sangroor MP Bhagwant Mann, state party in-charge Sanjay Singh, actor-turned-politician Gurpreet Singh Ghuggi and state convener Sucha Singh Chottepur, who were marching towards the residence of Punjab Chief Minister in Chandigarh, were stopped by Chandigarh Police at the Chandigarh-Mohali border near Gita Bhawan in Sector 53.

The AAP workers started gathering in large numbers in Dussehra Ground in Phase VIII around 8 am. According to the police, around 14,000 AAP supporters had gathered at the venue.

The protesters left the Dussehra ground around 11.45 am for Chandigarh where they were to gherao Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal’s residence.

The Chandigarh Police along with the Punjab Police had deployed a huge number of cops in the area near the Punjab CM’s residence. All the roads going towards the CM house were barricaded. No vehicle was allowed to go near the house. Police personnel had also been deployed outside the Punjab and Haryana Governor House near the Sukhna lake since morning. A senior police officer said that 2,500 UT Police personnel were deployed in the city.

The AAP workers were stopped near Gita Bhawan in Sector 53 by the Chandigarh Police. The AAP leaders raised slogans against the Badal government and demanded resignations of Revenue Minister Bikram Singh Majithia, Food Supply Minister and Badal’s son-in-law Adesh Pratap Singh Kairon and Union Food Processing Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal.

During the protest at Gita Bhawan, the AAP workers climbed on the barricades put up by the Chandigarh Police and raised slogans against the UT Administration. The protesters, however, were requested by their leaders not to resort to violence.

After receiving a message from the Punjab CM, a team led by Sucha Singh Chottepur, Bhagwant Mann, Sanjay Singh and Sukhpal Singh Khaira went to meet him. The AAP leaders later said that they were not satisfied with Badal’s replies and said that they would give one week’s time to the CM to take action against all his Cabinet colleagues and Harsimrat Badal.

Earlier, party’s state in-charge Sanjay Singh told mediapersons that they wanted the resignations of Majithia, Harsimrat and Kairon as these three had cheated the people of Punjab. They also wanted the resignation of Agriculture Minister Tota Singh who is responsible for fertilizers scam.

Traffic comes to a halt

THE protest brought traffic to a grinding halt. The commuters faced inconvenience. All the entry points towards Phase VII and Phase VIII were closed around 9.30 am and routes were diverted which caused major problems for the commuters. The parents, who came to pick their children from YPS School and Lawrence School in Phase VIII were not allowed to take their vehicles near the schools. Many parents were seen quarreling with the cops.

An ambulance, which was ferrying a patient to Chandigarh, got stuck in the jam in Phase VIII for around 20 minutes. The driver of the ambulance had to struggle to convince the cops to let the ambulance pass.

Avneet Kaur Dhaliwal, a Phase VIII resident, who got stuck in the jam, said that the cops did not allow her to cross the barrier near Phase VII. Satpal Singh, also a Phase VIII resident, was not allowed to take his car near the Lawrence Public School and he had to walk around 2 km to pick his children.

Anant Pal Singh, a Phase II resident, said that the police should make proper arrangements about the alternative routes. He had to take his mother to a private hospital in Phase VIII but he could not do so as the cops blocked all the entry points.

Heavy police deployed

EXPECTING around 30,000 AAP workers during the protest, the Mohali police had made elaborate arrangements to ensure that no untoward incident took place.

Around 5,000 police personnel of entire Ropar range, including districts of Ropar, Mohali, Patiala and Fatehgarh Sahib, were deputed in the city. Apart from it, cops from Amritsar, Bathinda and Ludhiana district police were also pressed into service.

DGP (Law and Order) H S Dhillon oversaw all the arrangements while IG (Patiala Zone) Parampal Singh Umranangal and DIG (Ropar range) G S Dhillon remained in the city throughout the day. For the first time a team of 81 cops of Vigilance Bureau was also deputed in the city. The force from the Railway Police was also called to the city.

SAD posters nail ‘bundle of lies’

SAD tried to take the sting out of the AAP’s show by putting up posters highlighting the government’s achievements along the protest route. The posters, which were put up during the night, highlighted that the allegations made by political parties about the missing grain was a bundle of lies. However, the SAD refrained from using photographs of Majithia and Harsimrat Badal in the posters.