https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/kabul-put-on-security-lockdown-after-protests-over-electricial-supply/2016/05/16/3eb38649-5cf8-4111-88b8-52b775c5039f_story.html
154
15
Afghan protesters chant anti-government slogans during a demonstration in Kabul on Monday, forcing a widespread security lockdown in the capital. (Wakil Kohsar/AFP/Getty Images)

Afghan authorities put Kabul under widespread security lockdown Monday after thousands of protesters joined rallies to demand better electrical services, marking another challenge for the Western-backed government.

The sweeping response to the mostly peaceful demonstration underscored the fears of unrest spreading in the capital as President Ashraf Ghani’s government struggles on multiple fronts, including battling the Taliban insurgency and seeking to pull Afghanistan out of an economic free fall.

The protest also pointed to the hardships in several parts of the country that have left many Afghans frustrated with Ghani’s government, a key partner of the U.S.-led military coalition in Afghanistan.

[Pentagon: Al-Qaeda finding common ground with Taliban]

Afghan forces reacted to the demonstration by shutting down most of Kabul, leaving large swaths of the city of nearly 4 million people eerily quiet for most of the day. Police with rifles were deployed at nearly every intersection in central Kabul.

Thousands of demonstrators from Afghanistan's Hazara minority protest a proposed power line route, posing a major challenge to President Ashraf Ghani's government. (Reuters)

The protesters — led by members of an ethnic minority known as the Hazara — oppose a decision to move a major power line route away from Bamian province, northwest of Kabul.

Intersections in Kabul were blocked off by huge storage containers. Helicopters swirled overhead as the demonstrators tried marching to the presidential palace but were stopped short by the barricades about two miles away.

[A literal problem with boots on the ground in Afghanistan]

Demonstrators claim that the decision to shift the power line route toward northern Afghanistan showed a lack of regard for Hazaras, who are Shiite Muslims. Hazaras often accuse the country’s dominant Pashtun ethnic group of ignoring the concerns of minorities.

The power line will transfer electricity from Turkmenistan through Afghanistan to Pakistan, connecting communities to power grids along the way.

“Excluding us from national projects will have more serious consequences than what the government thinks,” Asadullah Saadati, a Hazara member of parliament, told a cheering crowd waving placards calling for justice.

In a Twitter message after the protest, Ghani praised Afghan security forces and thanked Kabul residents for their “patience” during the clampdown. He also reiterated promises to bring “equal development” to all parts of the country.

The demonstration rolled on for several hours, but there were few problems. At one point, protesters were doused by a water cannon after they attempted to climb over one of the police barricades.

In another incident, a group of local journalists was attacked by protesters, but there were no serious injuries, according to NAI, a group in Kabul advocating for independent media.

Read more

This is how bad the situation is in Afghanistan

These are the 11,000 soldiers who might save Afghanistan

What does Afghanistan need? Some major rebranding, says its ambassador.

Today’s coverage from Post correspondents around the world