http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/6000-personnel-to-ensure-security/article8605754.ece
153
15
Security:Armed police personnel stand guard at Government Music College in the city where the distribution of polling materials is in progress on Sunday.— Photo: S. Mahinsha

Extensive security measures have been put in place across the district to ensure a fair and peaceful Assembly polls on Monday.

Nearly 6,000 police personnel and Central forces have been deployed in the city and rural police limits in the district. As many as 451 booths in the district have been identified as sensitive, critical or vulnerable.

According to City Police Commissioner G. Sparjan Kumar, nearly 1,900 security personnel have been deployed in various parts of the city. These included four companies of central paramilitary forces, including Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) and the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF). There are 59 sensitive booths and 36 vulnerable booths among the total 666 booths in the city limits. Highly sensitive booths have been identified at Poonthura, Vizhinjam, Adimalathura, Edayar, Vattiyurkavu, Kazhakuttam, Thumba and Veli.

The region coming under the City police limits has been divided into seven sub-divisions with each led by an Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP). The sub-divisions are further divided into 15 regions that are led by Circle Inspectors (CI). A control room that is led by ACP A. Pramod Kumar will coordinate the efforts. Nearly 30 strike forces have been readied to deal with any exigencies.

In the Thiruvananthapuram rural police limits, nearly 4,000 personnel, including five companies of the SSB, had been deployed, Superintendent of Police (Thiruvananthapuram rural) K. Shefeen Ahamed, said.

Of the 1,539 booths in rural police limits, there were 276 sensitive, 61 critical and 19 vulnerable booths. Highly sensitive booths have been identified at Pothencode, Poovar, Pozhiyoor, Kadinamkulam and Anchuthengu. The region has been divided into seven sub-divisions, each led by a Deputy Superintendent of Police (Dy.SP). Eight strike forces will be put in place in the region.

The 24 border points in the district have been sealed with surveillance initiated at the check-posts to prevent smuggling of liquor or currency. A police observer, appointed by the Election Commission of India, will oversee the security arrangements in the district.