http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/varanasi/CPMF-called-in-Azamgarh-after-communal-violence-continued-on-Sunday-night/articleshow/52297197.cms
153
15
VARANASI: Large scale violence in the vicinity of Khudadadpur village of Nizamabad area in Azamgarh district for second consecutive night on Sunday led to calling of central paramilitary forces (CPMF) apart from enhancing companies to PAC and police force. Officials claimed situation has been normalized and all precautions have been initiated to avoid recurrence of untoward situation like it took place on Sunday night after daylong peace.The CPMF and PAC carried out flag marches in Khudadadpur, Faridabad, Vangao, Fariha, Saraimir, Sanjarpur, Khareva and other localities. The ADG (law and order) Daljit Chawdhary along with IG (ATS) Asim Arun also reached the district to take stock of the situation. Many Bhartiya Janata Party leaders including MP from Lalganj Poonam Sonekar were stopped in neighbouring districts while making bid to enter Azamgarh.Talking to TOI Chawdhary disclosed, "Violence had started from Khudadadpur of Nizamabad on Saturday night but it spread in the areas of Saraimir and Gambhirpur on Sunday night. Keeping the seriousness of matter two companies of Rapid Action Force and 12 more companies of PAC were deployed in these areas by dividing them in sectors. Following night long exercise of police and paramilitary forces situation was under control since Monday morning. Process of identifying trouble mongers is continuing and as many as nine of them had been arrested so far."Violence marred Khudadadpur on Saturday evening after a group led by one Danish attacked the house of Musafir Ram and also torched it in old enmity. This incident took colour of communal violence when people of Musafir's community also came on road to retaliate. In the bid to pacify the situation circle officer (city) had suffered bullet injuries in hand while SP Azamgarh DN Mishra, ASP City, SDM, a tehsildar and two police constables had also suffered injuries in brick batting by violent mobs. On Sunday morning IG Varanasi zone SK Bhagat reached Azamgarh and took command of police operations.Due to alertness of police daytime passed off peacefully in Khudadadpur, Vangaon, Faridabad and adjoining areas. But, despite deployment of heavy police force and two companies of PAC the mischievous elements again indulged in violence and firing with the dusk when one Bhola Yadav suffered bullet injuries. Later, the violence spread in adjoining areas. Some violent groups also torched a timber mill in Vangaon area. Sensing gravity of matter RAF and 12 more companies of PAC were called informed Bhagat.By late night police launched massive combing operation in all villages when most of the youths were found absconding. Bhagat said that photography of each and every villager of affected areas had been done to identify the trouble mongers with the help of video clips of violence prepared by police. He further informed that over 12 FIRs had been lodged on the complaints of police, affected people and officials of district administration against assaulting, damaging private and public properties. The district magistrate Azamgarh Suhas LY said, to bring situation under control prohibitory orders were also promulgated on Sunday, which will remain effective for few more days.After taking part in a peace committee meeting at Saraimir police station DM said peace committee meetings are being organized by the district administration and police by inviting people and dignitaries of all communities to maintain communal harmony. He claimed that peace had been restored in affected areas and measures have also been initiated to avoid recurrence of any untoward incident.