http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3835793/British-tourist-68-fined-3-000-defecating-runway-stepping-Ryanair-flight-Manchester-Italy.html
154
15
A British tourist has been fined £3,000 after he defecated on the runway of an Italian airport after stepping off a three-hour Ryanair flight from Manchester.

David Sharp, 68, of Salford, had flown into Brindisi Airport in Apulia in southern Italy last week with the budget carrier and was making his way to the terminal building after leaving the aircraft.

However, he was seemingly unable to wait to reach a toilet inside the airport building and began to pull down his trousers.

The 68-year-old British tourist had flown into Brindisi Airport in Apulia in southern Italy when he defecated on the runway after leaving the plane

Italian media reported that he then began to defecate on the asphalt between the aircraft and the gate to the terminal building.

When confronted by Italian border police, he was unable to give an explanation for what he had done and was described as being in a state of 'mild agitation'.

According to local newspaper the Brindisi Report, he was later fined £3,000 for committing an obscene act. The fine was paid the next day after police tracked him down to the Casa Barocco B&B in nearby Leece, where he was staying with a friend.

A spokesman for Ryanair said: 'An individual was detained by local police at Brindisi Airport on September 30. This is a matter for local police.'

Mario Marcone, deputy police commander at Brindisi airport, added: 'We will not tolerate this sort of behaviour. There was no need to do what he did.'

He added to The Sun: 'This was a very embarrassing episode as it happened in front of around 50 passengers on the plane and airport staff.

'This isn't something we deal with every day.'

However, it isn't the only time police at Brindisi airport have had to intervene with British holidaymakers.

Italian media reported that he then began to defecate on the asphalt between the aircraft and the gate to the terminal building after catching a Ryanair flight from Manchester

One Monday officers were called to Thomas Cook flight from the UK after a married couple on board had a disagreement and the husband tried to leave the plane.

The aircraft, which was en route to Corfu, had made an unscheduled stop in Italy due to bad weather.

The plane then had to be refuelled and the passengers were told that they would not be embarking at this time.

However, according to the Local, the couple began arguing and the husband, aged 43, left the aircraft, despite being told not to do so and had to be caught by police.