http://www.standardmedia.co.ke/article/2000214808/more-woes-for-governor-gachagua-as-mps-storm-his-office
153
15


Updated Tue, September 6th 2016 at 00:00 GMT +3

Kieni MP Kanini Kega (in brown jacket) with colleagues as he briefed the media yesterday on the resolutions of a meeting with MCAs on the impeachment of Governor Nderitu Gachagua last Friday. Anti-riot police were yesterday evening deployed to guard the governor's office after three MPs and MCAs stormed it. (PHOTO: MOSE SAMY/ STANDARD)

Anti-riot police were yesterday evening deployed to guard Governor Nderitu Gachagua's office after three MPs and MCAs stormed it. The police, led by OCPD Makau Masai, were informed that MPs Kabando wa Kabando (Mukurweini), Kanini Kega (Kieni) and Peter Weru (Mathira) had stormed the offices and addressed workers.

Police found the MPs addressing journalists outside the office leading to heated exchanges with the law enforcers.

"Who has sent you and which law are you enforcing?" Mr Kabando roared.

Mr Masai had a hard time explaining that they had been informed that the leaders stormed Mr Gachagua's offices, with Kabando and Kega claiming he was no longer the governor.

"Which governor are you referring to? It should be the impeached governor," Kabando said.

The leaders had earlier visited Karson House, a rental facility that houses the Nyeri County Government offices, before marching to Town Hall, the office of the governor. Workers in the offices were caught off guard but the MPs addressed them and assured them of job security.

Mobilise thousands

"We came here to confirm that the governor is not in the office. If he comes, tell him we will mobilise thousands of Nyeri residents to remove him from the office," Kabando said.

The leaders claimed that the county government spent Sh40 million in 2013 to renovate two floors at Karson House, which houses government offices.

Earlier in the day, the leaders met at Outspan Hotel where they warned Senator Mutahi Kagwe against using his powers in the Senate to clear the governor, saying the grounds raised by MCAs were strong and showed public funds had been plundered.

In addition to his political woes, Gachagua had earlier in the day lost a court bid to stop the Senate from deliberating over the impeachment motion passed by the County Assembly last Friday. His lawyers were at the High Court in Nyeri yesterday seeking ex-parte orders to stop the process until the matter was heard and determined.

But Justice John Mativo only certified the matter as urgent and urged the lawyers to serve the Senate and the County Assembly before the matter was heard inter-partes on September 12. Gachagua's fate now lies with the Senate, which is expected to start discussing the matter after being served with the County Assembly proceedings.