http://thenationonlineng.net/dasukigate-dont-drag-my-sons-in-the-mud-obanikoro-warns/
154
15
Former Minister Musiliu Obanikoro yesterday sought to rubbish media reports that the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) traced N4.7billion believed to be from the $2.1billion slush funds from the Office of the National Security Adviser (ONSA) to the account of a company in which his two sons –Gbolahan and Babajide – are directors.

The money was allegedly paid in tranches into the Diamond Bank account of Sylvan McNamara Limited.

Responding to the reports through his media aide, Jonathan Eze, Obanikoro challenged the EFCC to publish the names of directors of the company.

He wondered why his sons whom he called thorough bred professionals in their own rights could be so maligned when it would not have cost the media much to verify from the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) the directors of the company at the time the transactions were made.

He urged the EFCC to be straight and above board in its investigations while avoiding speculations and conjectures infringing on the fundamental human rights of his sons.

Obanikoro said: “Associating my sons to the Sylvan McNamara account that allegedly received funds from the office of the embattled National security Adviser is highly preposterous and unthinkable.

“I am particularly amazed by the fact that trials and investigations are being done using the media unconventionally just to satisfy the cravings of political entities who are desperate to rub my hard earned reputation in the mud.”

He particularly picked on online news site Sahara Reporters ”whom I have legal cases against” for being ”at the forefront of misleading the public and defaming my person, perhaps rationalising that I would withdraw pending suits against it.”

He asked EFCC to “publish in good conscience the signatories and the names of the directors of the said company and to restate that I shall conclusively pursue this injustice and infringements to a logical end.”

The anti-graft agency suspects that the N4.7billion was used to prosecute the last governorship elections by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ekiti and Osun states.

Obanikoro, who is currently in the United States, was a key player in the coordination of the governorship polls in the two states including alleged abuse of deployment of troops.

Reliable sources in the anti-graft agency said the money was paid in tranches.

One of the sources said: “Two sons of former Minister of State for Defence, Musiliu Obanikoro, Babajide and Gbolahan Obanikoro are currently on the radar of the EFCC.

“About N4, 745,000,000.00 was traced to a company, Sylvan McNamara Limited, in which they have interest.

“The money was paid in several tranches into the company’s account number: 0026223714 with Diamond bank from the Office of the National Security Adviser account with the CBN.”

Another well- placed source said: “All the transfers were effected between June and December 2014, a period that coincided with the preparation for and the conduct of the Ekiti state gubernatorial election which ushered in the current administration of governor Ayodele Fayose.

“For instance N200m was transferred into Sylvan Mc Namara’s account on June 5, 2015 while N2billion was also wired into the account from the CBN/ Imprest Main account on June 16, 2016.

“Another transfer of N700m hit the account on July 7, 2014, while N1billion was credited to the account on July 30, 2014.

“Other transfers included: N160m on August 8, 2014; N225m on August 22, 2014; N200m on November 14, 2014 and N200m on December 5, 2014.

“Both Gbolahan and Babajide Obanikoro( as directors of the company) were also signatories to its account until 2014 when one Olalekan Ogunseye was made sole signatory to the account.

“The payments to the company from the office of the National Security Adviser were made without any contract.”

Responding to a question, the first source added: “Some of the funds traced to Obanikoro’s son’s account were meant for procurement of arms.

“We are making necessary contact with the son of the ex-Minister for appropriate interaction with our operatives.

“We hope he will get in touch as required or else, we may invoke necessary legal procedures to make him to account for these curious payments.”