http://www.dailymail.co.uk/indiahome/indianews/article-3424646/Justice-Bengal-s-Nirbhaya-Three-brutal-Kamduni-gang-rape-convicts-death-sentence-life-term.html
150
15
As a Kolkata sessions court pronounced the quantum of punishment in the horrific Kamduni gangrape and murder case on Saturday, Tumpa Kayal and Mousumi Kayal - the faces of the Kamduni protests, broke down.

The duo, friends of the 20-year-old victim, had no words to express their relief and joy as three convicts Ansar Ali, Saiful Ali and Amin Ali were sentenced to death and the other three - Emanul Islam, Bhola Naskar and Aminur Islam - were handed life terms for the brutal gangrape and murder that shocked the state in 2013.

Additional district and sessions judge Sanchita Sarkar pronounced the sentence.

Social activists protested outside the court following the judgment in the Kamduni rape and murder case

Tumpa and Mousumi were seen crying profusely in television studios as anchors hurled pointed questions at them.

“We have fought a long battle, for almost two-and-a-half years. We continued to fight with the Maoist tag. A lot of social and political pressures were on us and on those who stood up against the gruesome crime,” said a sobbing Tumpa Kayal.

Politics at play

Tumpa said they waited desperately for this very day of justice.

“We belong to very ordinary families. We don’t understand political implications. We were never involved in any political play over the gangrape and murder of our friend. We just wanted justice. But we were given several political titles by the ruling party. People stayed indoors in fear and preferred to keep mum,” she said.

Tumpa said the women of Kamduni wanted to vent their anger about the general security of women in the village, but Didi had termed them ‘Maoists’.

The six men accused of the Kamduni rape and murder case. Three have been sentenced to death for gangrape and murder and three have been given life terms

“I ran for about two kilometres after her convoy just to express our helplessness. And yes, I also wanted to tell her that we were neither Maoists, nor affiliated to any political party,” Tumpa added.

The Kamduni gangrape and murder had taken place on June 7, 2013, in West Bengal’s North 24 Parganas district.

The girl, a second year college student, was abducted, forcibly taken inside a factory and brutally gang raped by nine men, while she was returning home after appearing in an exam.

The men had torn apart her legs up to the navel and slit her throat before dumping the body in a fish pond.

Public protests

“I know she must be up there now and has seen how we fought the battle for her justice. She must be showering her blessings on all of us now. This is not the fight for the victim of Kamduni, but for all women who face similar physical assaults with deadly consequence,” said Mousumi, pointing out that the Kamduni incident had kicked up a storm in the state.

Ahead of the landmark verdict, protesters armed with placards and banners, which read ‘We want justice’, clashed with the police outside the court.

The protesters were said to be members of the student wing of a Left party.

The court area was chock-a-block with people, including friends and family members of the victim and Kamduni villagers.

A large contingent of police was deployed to ensure tightened security.

The hearing started around 11 am on Saturday went on for more than an hour.

“We have argued that this was the rarest of rare cases. One of those convicted had, in court, described in graphic detail how they had tortured the girl, gang raped her and then murdered her.

Ansar Ali, Saiful Ali and Amin Ali were sentenced to death for gang rape and murder.

They deserved capital punishment,” Public Prosecutor Anindya Raut told reporters, adding that three others, Emanul Islam, Bhola Naskar and Aminur Islam, were given life terms for gang rape.

Defence lawyer Phiroze Edulji said: “Let us get the copy of the judgment. We will go to high court within the next week.”