http://tribune.com.pk/story/1037134/courting-security-rawalpindi-district-courts-evacuated-after-threats/
154
15
Police say no specif­ic threat to courts; bar associ­ation demand­s height­ened securi­ty

RAWALPINDI: Court proceedings came to an abrupt halt after Rawalpindi district courts were evacuated due to security concerns on Saturday morning.

Sources told The Express Tribune that the judges put off hearings in all cases early in the day and gave new dates to litigants and lawyers. The measure was taken following a request made by law enforcement agencies.

The district and sessions judge asked all additional district and sessions judges and magistrates to end hearing in all cases by 9:30am.

Police and paramilitary forces carried out patrolling in and around the judicial complex after it was evacuated.

Police, however, denied there was any threat to the courts. DSP Civil Lines Farhan Aslam said there was no specific threat to the courts and claimed that it was a routine patrolling.

District Bar Association President Shaukat Rauf Siddiqi said that the law enforcement agencies had informed the bar and the judges about terror threats. He said that the security had already been on high alert following terrorist attacks on the Bacha Khan University.

He said police had raised concerns at large gatherings of litigants and lawyers in the court premises. He further said that Saturdays are usually busy days at district courts.

Siddiqui said that the bar had requested the police to beef up security in both the old and new court premises. He said that police high-ups visited court premises to review security two days ago.

Siddiqui said that the bar had asked the police to post armed guards on all entry points to the courts. He said that the bar and the police discussed installing CCTV cameras at court premises and setting up police posts on rooftops.

The bar president said they had requested the police and the district government to close all entry points except the two main gates of the courts. He said that the bar representatives would meet district coordination officer on Monday to discuss security measures at district courts.

Published in The Express Tribune, January 31st, 2016.

Read full story