http://thenationonlineng.net/bayelsa-dickson-and-the-challenges-ahead/
153
15
Following his victory at the last gubernatorial election in Bayelsa State, as announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission, (INEC) Governor Seriake Dickson of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), according to political observers, will have to confront some fresh challenges in administering the oil-rich state, Dare Odufowokan, Assistant Editor, reports.

The highly controversial 2015 governorship election in Bayelsa State may have finally been concluded following an earlier inconclusive attempt. But going by the submission of pundits and the implications left behind by some developments that occurred before, during and after the violently contested poll, the task of governing the now highly polarized state may not be an easy one for Governor Seriake Dickson, the man who got the nod of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), to continue in office for another term of four years, having polled the highest number of votes in the said election.

Following the conclusion of the supplementary election held on January 10, 2016, INEC declared Dickson, the incumbent and candidate of the PDP, as the winner of the Bayelsa State governorship election. According to the results, Dickson defeated his closest rival, Timipre Sylva of the All Progressives Congress (APC), to win the election. While Dickson polled 134,998 votes, Sylva got 86,852 votes. The initial election was held on December 5, 2015.

Dickson, who has been in charge as the governor of the oil-rich state since 2011, earlier served as a member of the House of Representatives, representing Sagbama/Ekeremor Federal Constituency of the state. In the House of Representatives, he served as the Chairman, House Committee on Justice and also a member of several committees.

According to Yenagoa-based public commentator and lawyer, Fred Ganpate, the electorate has played its part and has now thrown a challenge to those it defied threats and bad weather in some places to vote for. He said it is now very important for the re-elected governor to fulfill his campaign promises.

“However, Dickson will have to brace himself for some challenges emanating from the current situation of things in the state. There is no doubt that the people of the state will expect a lot of things from him and quickly too. Given the fact that the people had a variety of options to choose from the last time, the expectation from the man who eventually won is enormous,” he said.

Gampate cited the dwindling revenue of the state, growing insecurity, youth unemployment and a widely polarized citizenry as some of the challenges currently confronting the re-elected governor. And according to him, “Bayelsans would expect him to hit the ground running in finding solutions to these issues as soon as possible.”

Dwindling revenue

In the run up to the last gubernatorial election, Dickson has expressed deep concern over the steady decline in the revenues accruing to the state from the Federation Accounts Allocation Committee (FAAC). He explained that the decline was evident in the less than one billion naira shortfall in the revenue received by the state between August and September, 2015.

It was a visibly worried Dickson that disclosed that the state received only N5.2 billion for September 2015. He also disclosed that the state received N6.2 billion in the month of August and that the amount from the previous month had dropped to N5.6 billion occasioned by the sharp reduction in prices of crude oil in the international market.

“You can imagine what would have happened, if we didn’t experience this drastic and sudden drop in our revenue, Bayelsa would have been something else. But we are still not despondent. We are hopeful that by the grace of God, revenues will improve and we will again work together to take our state to the next level,” Dickson said.

With the FAAC allocation now further dwindled, and given the yearnings of the people of the state for more development as exemplified in their demands from candidates during the last election, pundits say Dickson will have to set about improving the Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) base of his state.

Former spokesperson of the Democratic Peoples Alliance (DPA) in the state, Comrade John Duokpolor, said it is now expedient for the governor to stop giving the people the usual excuse of dwindling allocation and find a way of increasing the financial situation of the state so as to be able to give the people the much needed dividends of democracy.

“As we speak, oil price has crashed from $104 to $38 per barrel. Possibly, it might still crash further with Iran back in the loop and America dangling Shell oil and Shell Gas. So, we must understand that it is not helpful to rely solely on the federal revenue. Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) must be looked into.

This is not a time for Governor Dickson to cry over dwindling allocation. It is time to generate revenue and meet the needs of the people who voted for him. His re-election amidst so much rancor, controversy and uncertainty places upon him a very serious burden of expectations and duty, and there is no way the people will be satisfied with excuses this time around,” he said.

To Gampate, the government may have to put on its thinking cap and find ways of getting citizens in the informal sector to contribute to the revenue base of the state as a way of improving the IGR accruable to it. “The place to look into is the informal sector. That is the sector that is actually untapped and having the capacity to help the state at a time like this. What is accruable from the sector is huge. It is just that nobody is paying attention to it now.

“But unlike the formal sector, you cannot get anything out of it unless you first encourage the people therein. And the easiest way to encourage the informal sector to keep on paying is to make them feel the impact of your government, because if you go back to collect from them again, they will ask you what you did with the ones they’ve paid; that is usually their response.

“If you want them to keep paying without blinking an eyelid, just provide amenities for them. Within their locality, fix roads, give them water, if they have problems with getting water to flow from their taps, send them tankers to drop water for them; let them feel the impact of the government. Once these are done, they will pay,” he said.

Insecurity

Another challenge Dickson is currently confronted with is insecurity. Headlined by the rising spate of kidnapping and other violent acts, as well as the recent abduction of a serving commissioner and the younger sister of the governor, many residents of the state are calling on the governor to secure lives and properties at all cost.

Observers are blaming the return of insecurity in the state on the high spate of thuggery and other violent activities associated with the last governorship election in the state. “The last election, in terms of criminal activities, remains the worst in the history of the state. My major fear is that unless these politicians find a way of disarming those they armed during that period, the state may be in for a terrible time,” Duokpolor cautioned.

Recently, the APC charged Governor Seriake Dickson to brace up to the security challenges instead of blaming it on the opposition. The party urged the governor to live up to the expectation of the people of Bayelsa by performing his most basic responsibility of ensuring the security of lives and property in the state.

A statement by its spokesman, Nathan Egba, said the party is worried about the increasing rate of violent crime, including kidnappings across the state. The APC called on the security agencies in the state to step up their intelligence and track down all criminal elements within the state.

The New Bayelsa Movement, a non-political pressure group, last weekend, raised the alarm over growing threats to life and property in some parts of the state. The group called on the governor to urgently confront the threat before more lives are lost to kidnappers, armed robbers and other criminal elements in the state.

In a statement by its President, Titus Ezonfade, and Secretary, Meg Tamunomiebi , the group maintained that it had watched with dismay the increasing number of lives lost to hoodlums every day in the oil-rich state.

Already, the governor has revealed that his administration had finalized plans to unfold a comprehensive security framework to address the current trend of insecurity across the state. Dickson recently warned that anybody found culpable will be dealt with in accordance with the criminal laws of the state and the country.

He called on youths in the state not to allow themselves to be used under whatever guise to perpetrate any crime, warning that no one would be spared when caught. Dickson enjoined the people of the state to go about their legitimate duties without any fear of molestation, assuring that security agencies had been put on red alert to track down criminals and their cohorts.

Fence mending

Another urgent task before Dickson, according to political analysts, is the need for him to supervise the mending of political fences across the state so as to reduce the widespread division and sectionalization occasioned by the tense politicking experienced in the state during the last governorship election.

Already, political analysts have commended the governor-elect for extending an olive branch to his opponents in the contest. Upon his victory, Dickson called on those who contested with him but lost to come forward with their programmes and policies and support his administration to move the state forward. With this singular action, many are hoping that in no distance time, the political divides within the state will close ranks and allow peace to reign.

But Gampate would want to believe that the decision of the opposition APC and its candidate to contest the result of the election at the tribunal may delay the healing of political wounds. “I want to believe that given how tense the contest was, with the battle now moving to the tribunal, the worst is not over yet,” he said.

Following the declaration of Dickson as the winner of the election, the APC candidate, Chief Timipre Sylva, vowed to challenge what he described as the procured victory of the PDP in court. According to him, the INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Mr. Baritor Kpagir, deliberately set up machinery to ensure the return of the PDP candidate and incumbent Dickson.