http://article.wn.com/view/2016/01/31/86_feared_dead_in_Boko_Haram_attack/
154
15
A survivor hidden in a tree says he watched Boko Haram extremists firebomb huts and heard the screams of children burning to death, among 86 people officials say died in the latest attack by Nigeria ’s homegrown Islamic extremists .

updated 8:44 PM EDT, Sat August 16, 2014 A video of Abubakar Shekau, who claims to be the leader of the Nigerian Islamist extremist group Boko Haram, is shown on September...

September 20, 2014 -- Updated 1554 GMT (2354 HKT) A video of Abubakar Shekau, who claims to be the leader of the Nigerian Islamist extremist group Boko Haram, is shown on...

(CNN)Nigerian forces fought off Boko Haram militants in the northeastern city of Maiduguri, military officials said Monday, but the extremists seized another town in the...

(Source: US Department of the Treasury ) ​ Action Targets Two Individuals Responsible for Facilitating Terrorism and Violence WASHINGTON - The U.S. Department of the...

(CNN)Nigerian troops retook the strategic northeastern town of Baga -- where hundreds were viciously killed in a Boko Haram attack last month -- on Saturday, the West...

Related News

Nigerian police say they've arrested senior Boko Haram member July 15, 2014 -- Updated 1310 GMT (2110 HKT) A video of Abubakar Shekau, who claims to be the leader of the Nigerian Islamist extremist group Boko Haram, is shown on September 25, 2013. Boko Haram is an Islamist militant group waging a campaign of violence in northern Nigeria. The group's ambitions range from the stricter enforcement of Sharia law to the total destruction of... CNN





Boko Haram Attacks Northeast Nigerian Town, Killing Two Soldiers Boko Haram Islamist militants fired rockets on a Nigerian military vehicle. Two soldiers were killed during the attack. Six other soldiers and a civilian were also critically injured during the attack when their vehicle was hit by a mine planted by Boko Haram just outside Baga, Bloomberg reported. Residents of Baga who witnessed the attack from Boko Haram have been plagued by... The Inquisitr





Boko Haram Fast Facts (CNN)Here's a look at Boko Haram, a militant Islamic group working out of Nigeria, whose purpose is to institute Sharia, or Islamic law. Facts: In the local Hausa dialect, Boko Haram means "Western education is forbidden." The group also refers to itself as Jama'atu Ahlis Sunna Lidda'awati Wal-Jihad, meaning "People Committed to the Propagation of the Prophet's Teachings and... CNN





Girl, 13: Boko Haram tried to force me to become a suicide bomber updated 5:35 PM EST, Fri December 26, 2014 Kano, Nigeria (CNN) -- A 13-year-old Nigerian girl told reporters this week that her father handed her over to Islamist militants to become a suicide bomber, but she fled as two other girls detonated their explosives at a market earlier this month. The girl was presented before the media Wednesday to describe what she called her forced... CNN



