http://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-3850146/Khloe-Kardashian-flaunts-slim-figure-lacy-bodysuit-jeans-launch-event-LA-beefs-security.html
150
15
Her sister was famously involved in an armed robbery in Paris just a few weeks ago.

And Khloe Kardashian was an arresting sight on her latest outing.

The 32-year-old rocked a very revealing outfit while heading to a Good American Launch Event in Los Angeles on Tuesday.

Scroll down for video

Revealing: Khloe Kardashian turned heads at a Good American Launch Event in Los Angeles on Tuesday

Not taking any chances: It appeared as if the 32-year-old reality star certainly beefed up security at the event

No doubt she was not taking any chances since sister Kim's ordeal as Khloe noticeably beefed up security for the event held at the Nordstrom in highly-popular shopping area The Grove.

As she spends several hours in the gym every week, she made sure top show off the results in a see-through black mesh bodysuit.

The sheer number featrured a backless cutout as it was tucked into a pair of on-trend skinny light blue jeans.

Wow factor: As she spends several hours at the gym, she made sure to show off the results

Dynamic duo: She was joined by mother Kris Jenner

Stunning: The mother-and-daughter duo were in fantastic form

The trousers featured a slight tear at the hemline as she teamed the look with a pair of furry black stilletos.

She accessorised the look with studded earrings and two choker necklaces.

Her signature dyed blonde locks were worn down into waves flowing over her shoulder as she sported natural, complimentary make-up on her face topped off with brown lip.

On the prowl: Khloe also hit the stage at The Grove to show off her new jeans as she is part of their advert campaign

Having fun: She looked fantastic in her skintight trousers

Ooh la la: The bodysuit featured a backless cutout detailing

Mommy and me: Khloe and the 60-year-old matriarch seemed to have fun answering questions

Pretty: She wore her dyed blonde tresses down into waves flowing over her shoulders

Speaking out: The momager looked more than happy to be at the event

Out and about: Leading up to the event, Khloe could be seen on Snapchat

Looking good: She also wore black furry heels

Stunning: No doubt she enjoyed parading around her curvaceous figure

Friendly to fans: Regardless of the security she did not hesitate in saying hello to a few fans

Having a blast: She was all smiles while greeting her biggest fans

Khloe was not alone for the occasion as she was joined by her 60-year-old momager Kris Jenner.

The matriarch of the Kardashian-Jenner clan sported a long white coat over a black top.

She teamed the look with a pair of black leather booties and matching ripped skinny jeans.

Big day: There was a gaggle of security at the event

She doesn't skip squat day: Khloe looked good in those jeans

On-the-go: Her security made sure the area was clear for her to walk through

Her signature short raven-coloured locks were combed to the side as she completed her make-up with a swipe of bright red lip.

No doubt it was a fun event as Khloe took to her Snapchat to document the gala including footage from an interview with Kris and herself.

The star-studded gala at luxury store Nordstrom was put together to celebrate the launch of denim brand Good American.

In a snap: Khloe was all over social media leading up to and during the event

Having a blast: She addressed her followers while on the red carpet

Got back: When she wasn't on the phone, Khloe stuck the mobile in her back pocket

Sisterly love: Her sister Kourtney Kardashian joined her at the event

Hugged up: Kourtney gave her a big hug on the grey carpet

Having fun: The 38-year-old reality star poked fun at her younger sister

Just us: The sisters were very active on Snapchat

Tremendous trio: She was joined by twin gal pals Malika and Khadijah Haqq

Motley crew: Khloe shared this group photo from the gathering

Hello: She shared a video of he grand entrance on Snapchat

Busy: Her account also shared a few videos from the event

Feeling good: Khloe looked comfortable despite the family troubles she has endured as of late

Mama: Khloe also shared this image of Kris addressing the crowd

The entire reality series family has beefed up security in the wake of 35-year-old Kim Kardashian's armed robbery in Paris last month.

The Kardashian family have all rallied around the 35-year-old, who is taking some time off following the terrifying ordeal.

Out and about: Khloe looked fantastic as she left the big event

Mother dear: Kris also looked fantastic as she made her exit

Incognito exit: Instead of leaving out in the open like her sister and mother Kourtney opted to use the back way

Hole-y moly: Her jeans featured huge rips in them

In good hands: There was plenty of security by her pick-up vehicle

Pretty in patterns: Television persinality Catt Sadler rocked a patterned jumpsuit at the event

On Monday, Kim's assistant Stephanie Shepherd announced the star's friends and family will be updating her subscription based app and website kimkardashianwest.com while Kim recovers.

Kim is also planning a low-key celebration for her 36th birthday on Friday, with just her family by her side, according to E! Online.

Finishing touches: She shared this video of her make-up being touched up

Glam squad: No doubt plenty of preperation went into the outing

All smiles: Khloe posted several snaps leading up to the event