http://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-3851166/Kanye-West-cancels-Kim-Kardashian-s-lavish-20-s-themed-birthday-party-amid-security-fears-Paris-heist.html
150
15
An extravagant party organised in honour of Kim Kardashian’s 36th birthday has reportedly been cancelled by concerned husband Kanye West amid fears for her security following her terrifying multi-million dollar robbery in Paris.

The American TV personality will celebrate her birthday on October 21, but sources claim the party has been significantly downscaled and will be a subdued affair following the ordeal, during which thieves escaped with an estimated £8.5 million in jewels after posing as police officers and breaking into her rented apartment in the French capital.

But while Kanye, 39, has reportedly moved to cancel plans for a lavish celebration, the rapper has sought to ensure her big day is still memorable by buying her a pair of ruby drop earrings from designer Lorraine Schwartz, understood to be worth $50,000.

Scroll down for video

Not happening: An extravagant party organised in honour of Kim Kardashian’s 36th birthday has reportedly been cancelled by concerned husband Kanye West amid fears for her security

‘Kanye is devastated he has to cancel – but his family’s security come first,’ a source told The Sun Online. ‘He had gone all out for Kim’s birthday and it was going to be all expenses spared with champagne and canapés.

‘Now they will do something low key instead. He’s made sure he will still spoil her with the stunning one of a kind earrings though – as he doesn’t cut corners when it comes to his missus.’

A star-studded guest list including close friends Ciara and Kelly Rowland and family members Caitlyn Jenner and Blac Chyna were understood to be attending a 1920’s themed bash in honour of Kim’s birthday at Hollywood venue The Nice Guy prior to its cancellation.

MailOnline have contacted Kim and Kanye's representatives for further comment.

Private party: The American TV personality will celebrate her birthday on October 21, but sources claim the party has been significantly downscaled and will be a subdued affair

Meanwhile mother Kris Jenner has advised Kim to take 'one day at a time' following the robbery.

The social media sensation has retreated from the spotlight in a bid to come to terms with the incident - and now Kris has revealed that she told Kim that recovering is a 'process.'

Speaking to E! News about her daughter, the momager said: 'One day at a time. It's a process.'

Mum's the word: Kris Jenner has advised her daughter Kim Kardashian to take 'one day at a time' after she was robbed at gunpoint earlier this month

Kris added that her maternal instinct has taken over since the incident on October 2, and she is focusing solely on her children now.

Kim's younger sister Khloe has admitted her and her siblings have to now be 'more aware' of their surroundings, and respect Kim's request for privacy to allow her to 'heal.'

The 32-year-old television personality said: 'It's more just being more aware and just really respecting Kim's privacy and letting her heal and do what's best for her and her family.

Advice: Kris has told Kim, pictured above in Paris days before the robbery, that she needs to take time to recover from the terrifying incident

'Well, I think it's just a wake-up call to make a lot of life adjustments. This is a really serious matter for Kim I think that's really personal as to when that emotional terror you could move on from that.

'I think for us it's all a wake-up call for all of us, but definitely just to make sure our sister's OK.'

The star and Kris were speaking at a Good American Launch Event in Los Angeles on Tuesday.

Revealing: Khloe Kardashian also spoke about how the family is helping Kim to 'heal' while rocking a racy ensemble at the Good American Launch Event in Los Angeles on Tuesday

Not taking any chances: It appeared as if the 32-year-old reality star certainly beefed up security at the event after Kim's robbery

Taking Kim's ordeal into account, Khloe had noticeably beefed up security for the event held at the Nordstrom in highly-popular shopping area The Grove.

As she spends several hours in the gym every week, she made sure top show off the results in a see-through black mesh bodysuit.

The sheer number featured a backless cutout as it was tucked into a pair of on-trend skinny light blue jeans.

Dynamic duo: Kris joined her daughter at the event

The trousers featured a slight tear at the hemline as she teamed the look with a pair of furry black stilletos.

She accessorised the look with studded earrings and two choker necklaces.

Her signature dyed blonde locks were worn down into waves flowing over her shoulder as she sported natural, complimentary make-up on her face topped off with brown lip.

On the prowl: Khloe also hit the stage at The Grove to show off her new jeans as she is part of their advert campaign

Having fun: She looked fantastic in her skintight trousers

Khloe was not alone for the occasion as she was joined by her 60-year-old momager Kris Jenner.

The matriarch of the Kardashian-Jenner clan sported a long white coat over a black top.

She teamed the look with a pair of black leather booties and matching ripped skinny jeans.

Her signature short raven-coloured locks were combed to the side as she completed her make-up with a swipe of bright red lip.

No doubt it was a fun event as Khloe took to her Snapchat to document the gala including footage from an interview with Kris and herself.

The star-studded gala at luxury store Nordstrom was put together to celebrate the launch of denim brand Good American.

Sisterly love: Her sister Kourtney Kardashian joined her at the event

Busy: Her account also shared a few videos from the event

Feeling good: Khloe looked comfortable despite the family troubles she has endured as of late

The entire reality series family has beefed up security in the wake of Kim's armed robbery in Paris last month.

The Kardashian family have all rallied around the TV star, who is taking some time off following the terrifying ordeal.