http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3789842/Lil-Wayne-lowers-listing-price-15-000-square-foot-Miami-Beach-home-12million-series-hoaxes-causing-SWAT-teams-descend-house.html
153
15
Lil Wayne is so desperate to sell off his Miami Beach home that he has slashed the price by $6million over the course of 2016, and now has the house listed for $12million.

The rapper purchased the 15,101-square-foot home, which has nine bedrooms and nine bathrooms, for the same price in 2006.

Over the last ten years, the home has been the scene of at least two swatting incidents -where SWAT teams are deployed to an unsuspecting victim's home under false pretenses - including last month when police received a call claiming a man had been shot and was bleeding at the rappers home.

Lil Wayne has listed his 15,101-square-foot Miami Beach, Florida, home for $12million - the same price he purchased it for in 2006

Over the last ten years, the home, which has nine bedrooms and nine bathrooms, has been the scene of at least two swatting incidents

Wayne first listed the beachfront property for $18million in April 2015, but lowered the price to $14million on July 8, then again to $12million on July 28

The open interior of the home appears to have three floors and a built-in bar on the main level

The home sits right on the water in Miami Beach, overlooking a canal leading out to Biscayne Bay

When police arrived at the home, they entered through an unlocked door and found Wayne asleep.

The rapper gave them permission to search the home and nothing was found.

Wayne first listed the beachfront property for $18million in April 2015. On July 8 of this year, he lowered the price to $14million.

On July 28, however, Wayne dropped the price to $12million - the lowest he could and still break even.

The main floor, which looks out to the water, features floor-to-ceiling windows and tiled floors

The home has a modern look to it, smoothly transitioning from tile to wood floors in the bedrooms

One bedroom features a bathroom with a glass-walled shower and plenty of storage space

The kitchen features stainless steel appliances, two sinks, and a large island in the middle of the room

Earlier this week Wayne announced that he would not work again until Cash Money Records pays him the millions he claims the company owes him.

'I have a family. I have kids. I have a mother. We have bills. This is just business,' he said, adding that he will never work with Birdman again.

Last week he hinted on social media that he was done with the music business.

On September 3 the the Grammy Award-winning rap star admitted he was burned out - and appeared to be contemplating retirement - in the wake of a nearly-two-year beef with his label.

Earlier this week Wayne also announced that he would not work again until Cash Money Records pays him the millions he claims the company owes him

One bathroom features intricate tiling along the walls as well as what appear to be wood cabinets

Another features features a glass-walled shower, a stand-alone sink and modern wall designs

Residents can watch the canal activity as they soak in a tub in one of the home's many bathrooms

He claims Birdman owes him millions of dollars and has been holding his never been released album, Tha Carter V, hostage, added the site.

It was added that Wayne has been screaming, 'F*** Cash Money' on Drake's stage.

The star also has his health to think about.

Lil Wayne suffered two seizures while on a flight from Wisconsin to California in the spring, causing the pilot of his private jet to make two emergency landings in Omaha, Nebraska.

The second time the rapper was taken by ambulance to a hospital.

The New Orleans native - best known for his hits Mirror and How To Love n - had 'blacked out’.

An elevator near the front door of the home allows for easy access to all levels without using the stairs

The home also features an outdoor pool overlooking the pool as well as a shaded seating area nearby

Near the front door of the home there is a koi pond featuring a small water fountain