http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3742916/Army-veterans-say-London-memorial-one-million-Canadians-came-Britain-fight-two-World-Wars-desecrated-people-using-water-slide-paddling-pool.html
153
15
A London memorial commemorating one million Canadians who travelled to Britain to fight in two World Wars is being ‘desecrated’ by people using it as a water slide and paddling pool.

Military veterans are among those who have expressed outrage at the on-going abuse of the famous monument in Green Park, directly opposite Buckingham Palace.

Unveiled by the Queen in 1994, it is surrounded by signs reading ‘As a mark of respect, please refrain from climbing this memorial’.

A war memorial in Green Park, London, is being used as a water slide and paddling pool

There are signs around the memorial, which commemorates one million Canadians who fought alongside Britain, asking people to stay off

But instead visitors are walking up and down it and Army Veteran Richard Allen says it is outrageous

Despite this, visitors to the park now think nothing of walking up and down the sloping granite sculpture, which has water flowing across it, and using it to cool their feet, sunbathe, and play games on.

At the weekend, grown men in bare feet or trainers could be seen clambering on top of it, while encouraging children to use it as a slide during the hot summer weather.

Richard Allen, who served alongside the Royal Highland Fusiliers of Canada when he was an officer in the British Army, said it was ‘an outrageous sight’.

‘The Canadians made a huge contribution to victory during the World Wars,’ said Mr Allen, who is now based in San Francisco, from where he regularly travels to London on business.

‘Their soldiers were outstandingly brave, and thousands were killed or wounded.

'This very moving monument is designed to commemorate all of them, and it is very sad indeed to see it being desecrated like this.

‘More recently, Canadians have served alongside us in places like Afghanistan. The Metropolitan police should be dealing with this.’

A family visiting from the Canadian province Ontario said they thought it would be a sacred place not a playground

Charlotte Lynn, who was visiting from the Canadian province Ontario with her family, commented: ‘What is going on is beyond belief.

‘We were expecting a sacred place, where those who fought would be honoured and respected. Instead, the monument has been turned into a playground.’

The Canadian Memorial was designed by the sculptor Pierre Granche, and is divided into two halves, representing Britain and Canada.

Bronze Canadian maple leaves have been inserted into the slopes, along with the country’s coat of arms, and the flowing water is meant to signify the passage of time.

The two halves represent Britain and Canada and the water is meant to signify the passage of time

An inscription reads: ‘In two World Wars one million Canadians came to Britain and joined the fight for freedom. From danger shared, our friendship prospers.’

Disorderly crowds are increasingly causing chaos in London's Royal parks

Thousands of Canadians were killed or wounded at Great War battles including Vimy Ridge, in France in 1917, and throughout the Second World War.

The Canadian Army had its own landing sector, Juno Beach, at D-Day, and also suffered terrible casualties during the Dieppe Raid of 1942.

Queen Elizabeth II remains the formal Commander-in-Chief of the Canadian military, and has frequently expressed great pride in its units.

A spokesman for the Royal Parks said it was ‘against regulations to climb or interfere with any monument or statue. Enforcement of Royal Parks regulations is a matter for the police.’

The scandal comes at a time when disorderly crowds are increasingly causing chaos in London’s Royal parks.