http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/700408/Angela-Merkel-Burka-Germany-demands-Chancellor-Peter-Tauber-German-UK
152
15
GETTY Merkel has been ordered to ban the burka

Peter Tauber, the General Secretary of Merkel’s Christian Democrats said in a press conference the burka “does not comply with Germany". He said: “The full-face veil… does not comply with Germany, and we reject it.

GETTY Peter Tauber says the full face veil does not comply with German values

We are the one party that makes sure that Germany is a safe country, and that it remains a safe country Peter Tauber

“We are the one party that makes sure that Germany is a safe country, and that it remains a safe country.” Tauber also called for the ban of the niqab – which only shows a woman’s eyes – as part of Germany’s bid to tighten security in the wake of the terror attacks last month. The ally to Merkel tightened the pressure on the chancellor just a month after Germany’s deputy finance minister Jens Spahn declared himself a “burkaphobe”.

The senior minister said: “We all have underestimated a year ago what was about to hit us, with this great migration movement.” He described the process of integrating immigrants as a “Herculean task” and argued that Germany should expect a “willingness to adapt” by people wanting to live there.

Mr Spahn commented: “Anyone who thinks that men are worth more than women, who refuses to learn German or to send his daughter to school swimming lessons should seek shelter in a different country, one that better suits him.” The legislation to ban the burka would need to be agreed by the 16 German state governments to become a country-wide ban.

German Chancellor: Angela Merkel Sun, July 31, 2016 Angela Merkel has served as German Chancellor since 2005 and Leader of the Christian Democratic Union since 2000. We take a look at her political career in pictures. Play slideshow Getty Images 1 of 29 German chancellor Angela Merkel attends a memorial service for the victims of last weeks shooting spree that left nine victims dead on July 31, 2016 in Munich, Germany

GETTY Minister Jens Spahn described himself as a burkaphobe