http://www.news.com.au/national/south-australia/trucking-company-boss-to-spend-at-least-seven-years-behind-bars-for-manslaughter-through-negligence/news-story/f522460c604b39c65f27fd2deb7e1a58
130
13
Mitch Mott The Advertiser

AFTER a Supreme Court appeal, an unsuccessful retrial and a final resentencing, a disgraced trucking company boss has been ordered to serve at least seven years and nine months of a 10-year-and-six-month sentence for manslaughter and endangering life.

Peter Francis Colbert, 57, appeared in the SA Supreme Court on Tuesday for sentencing after he was found guilty of the two crimes after he failed to heed warnings that a truck he owned had faulty brakes.

Justice Malcolm Blue described Colbert’s negligence as “the culmination of a course of conduct over two months” which left one driver dead and another suffering the psychological ramifications from the moment he came within seconds of killing another driver.

On March 7, 2014, Robert Brimson was killed when the brakes on the truck he was driving failed and he deliberately crashed into a Stobie pole to avoid hitting other drivers on Main South Rd at Happy Valley.

The court heard Colbert had been warned the truck was faulty two days before when another driver had a close call where he came within metres of colliding with other motorists.

The driver returned the truck to Colbert and told him “the brakes are f...ed” in front of another employee.

Adelaide's Lunchtime Newsbyte - 11th of October 0:47 Breakthrough in pay dispute stops 24 hour train strike. Arsonists torch an Oakden property. Taxpayer assistance for flood affected farmers. Pine tree topples at Gilberton. Vincent Stanford in court. Labor votes against same sex plebiscite.

A witness impact statement from the driver was presented to the court in which he said he was still having flash backs to the near miss and was unable to driver a truck for months afterwards.

Justice Blue said the impact on Mr Brimson’s widow had been catastrophic with the death coming shortly before the couple’s wedding anniversary.

“Their goals and dreams now will never be realised,’ Justice Blue told Colbert.

The defence said that Colbert did not know what to say to the victim’s family, only saying “I’m sorry”.

Colbert had previously been jailed for nine years with a non-parole period of five years for rape, attempted rape and the serious assault of a 15-year-old girl and 22-year-old woman in 1996.

While Justice Blue said the more recent offending was dissimilar to the offending more than 20 years ago and he concluded both courses of conduct showed “a lack of regard for others”.

After being sentenced to 12 years imprisonment with a non-parole period of 10 years in August 2015, he successfully won a retrial in September, 2016.

However it took a jury less than an hour to find him guilty of both counts.

Justice Blue took into account more than a year Colbert had spent in custody and sentenced him to 10 years and six months imprisonment with a non-parole period of seven years and nine months.

Even though Colbert was not driving during either incident his licence was disqualified indefinitely.