http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/719738/putin-erdogan-turkey-russia-nuclear-war-turkish-stream-gas-pipeline-america
150
15
GETTY The two leaders have overcome their differences

The collaboration between Vladimir Putin and Recep Tayyip Erdogan comes amid growing tensions between Russia and the West. The ruthless leaders met in Istanbul on Monday to discuss the Turkish Stream gas pipeline and a joint military strategy in Syria, resulting in an agreement to share intelligence and the joint provision of humanitarian aid. After the meeting, Erdogan said: "We thoroughly discussed the Syrian issue. We talked about the [Turkish] Euphrates Shield operation and evaluated ways we can cooperate in this direction.

GETTY Putin and Erdogan have been developing a close collaboration in recent months

“We specifically talked about what strategy we may choose in order to help, from a humanitarian point of view, the inhabitants who are in a dire situation, especially in Aleppo." Putin added: “We have a common stance [with Turkey] regarding what must be done to deliver humanitarian aid to Aleppo. The issue is ensuring security for the deliveries of this cargo."

GETTY Putin and Erdogan are working together on joint military strategies and a gas pipeline

The leaders agreed to "speed up the work" on the gas pipeline and move forward with plans to construct Russia based energy hub, the Akkuya Nuclear Power Plant. Putin and Erdogan then issued statements to the World Energy Congress that construction will begin on a gas pipeline, which will transport natural gas from Russia through Turkey to other EU countries. The allied relationship between the countries comes as fears that Russia may launch a nuclear war with the West hit an are all-time high. Russia has begun to move nuclear-capable Iskander-M missiles in Kaliningrad – a tiny Russian enclave surrounded by EU nations.

Russian President Vladimir Putin in pictures Fri, October 7, 2016 Russin President Vladimir Putin in pictures Play slideshow 1 of 52

And it was revealed last week that Putin has constructed nuclear bunkers capable of providing shelter to Moscow's population of 12million. Relations between Russia and the United States have become strained as a result of Russian airstrikes in Syria, which violated a ceasefire struck between the nations. Last week, Russian media warned its citizens that "schizophrenics from America are sharpening nuclear weapons for Moscow", according to a headline on defence ministry TV channel, Zvezda.

GETTY The two leaders are working together to defeat ISIS