http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/politics-and-nation/my-name-is-khan-i-am-not-a-terrorist/articleshow/54557817.cms
150
15
MUMBAI: Last week, when the entire state police machinery was on high terror alert after suspicious movement was spotted in Uran in Navi Mumbai , a 30-year-old driver from Virar found himself branded a terrorist by some unidentified people on a WhatsApp group. He suspects that it is a handiwork of some goons who wish to oust him from his flat.On Tuesday , Saeed Khan landed at Virar police station with his wife Nahid and four children with a placard that read, "My name is Saeed Sher Ali Khan . I am not terrorist."Khan took this extreme step after being flooded with calls from family , friends and even unknown people wanting to know of his supposed terror links. "It has become difficult to step out of the house. My wife and children are scared due to the sudden attention we have been attracting," said Khan, a resident of Gopcharpada, Virar (East).On September 22, a friend informed Khan that his photograph where he is seen with a friend, Khashid Khan , on a bike has gone viral on a WhatsApp group named Tarun Mitra Mandal. The photo has a caption that calls Khan a terrorist who is gathering details ab out various localities. The message asks people to be alert.While the origin of the message has not been traced, Khan suspects a group of local goons who have been harassing him to vacate his flat he had moved into a year ago. Khan said, "Some local goons want me to move out as I have refused to pay an increased maintenance of Rs 2,000 per month for the flat. They had threatened to make my life miserable."Khan said even his family and friends have questioned him about his "terror" links, if any . "I am scared to step out of the house. What if people who have seen my photograph attack me," said Khan who has been unemployed ever since his tempo was burned down by unidentified miscreants around six months ago.Khan has submitted details of the message to the police.He has named around seven suspects. He said the photograph may have been clicked recently when he had taken out his bike in the locality.Khan, who was born and brought up in Virar, said, "My seven-year-old son Oawasis and five-year-old daughter Aayesha have been asking me what the word 'terrorist' mean. Action should be taken against those who have made me feel miserable in front of my children," said Khan.The police said they have taken down details, including clips of the message. Those on the group where the message was circulated will be questioned, said cops. No complaint has been registered.