https://sputniknews.com/politics/20161003/1045962080/pentagon-asian-surprises.html
154
15
© AFP 2016/ STR Did the Pentagon Chief Just Reignite South China Sea Tensions?

According to Russian military expert Konstantin Sivkov, Carter's figures only sound intimidating, while in fact the announced $40 billion over the next five years is quite a moderate sum.

Moreover, Sivkov stated that rearmament is a complex process that includes not only modernization, but also procurement and development of new weapons. This is a long-term process and therefore Pentagon's threats sound unrealistic, he argued.

"I have an impression that Mr. Ashton made advertising, rather than presented real plans. Of course, you can do something, if you have $40 billion, but it won't be something supernatural. It's just the regular self-reassuring rhetoric of the Pentagon," the expert said.

"For military experts […] Carter's statement sounds unconvincing. Secret weapon? But any new, breakthrough weapon requires a fairly long-term development and numerous tests which are almost impossible to hide under the current conditions," he added.

Last Thursday, US Secretary of Defense Ash Carter also reiterated the Pentagon's "Asia Pivot' plans ," to deploy 60% of America's overseas naval and air military assets to the Asia-Pacific region by 2020. To complicate matters further, US Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter announced last week that the Pentagon would beef up its military presence in the South China Sea

Carter didn't specify Washington's enemies, but many experts believe that he was implying China and Russia. Russian military expert Vladimir Evseev commented on Sputnik's question of whether US' plans are likely to achieve their goal or if they will rather lead to new tensions in the region.

"I believe that both China and Russia will easily enough fend off this funding that the United States intends to spend on its ‘surprises' in the Asia-Pacific region," Evseev stated. "As for surprises, Russia is very well aware about all American developments. Moreover, Russia is working on the similar ones, including the creation of hypersonic aircraft, as well as the development of new submersibles," Evseev stated.

According to the expert, Washington's rhetoric is just another attempt to exert pressure on China and Russia, which is unlikely to bring any "surprising results." In the Evseev's opinion, there is no doubt that both countries will find an adequate response to the US' attempts of containment.