http://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/itbp-deploys-women-at-border-posts-along-china/story-KJOEXqMsfeYCCwLhzSsjqI.html
150
15
For the first time the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) has deployed women personnel to man the India-China border along tribal districts of Kinnaur and Lahual and Spiti in Himachal Pradesh.

In the first phase, the paramilitary force, which guards frontiers, has deployed one dozen women on five of its check posts close to the China border. “Right now, only a few women are deputed in the frontiers. More will be deployed in the area from next month onwards,” said HS Goraya, inspector general of police, ITBP, Northern Frontier.

“The central government has directed the paramilitary troops to at least deploy 15% women in its check posts,” he said, adding, “As of now, we are creating infrastructure for women troops in the border areas. Separate bunkers are being built for them.”

It was last year that the ITBP raised its first mahila contingent, comprising of 500 women personnel. The women who were recruited in the ITBP hailed from different states —Himachal Pradesh, Bihar, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttarakhand.

The women constables were first inducted into the ITBP in 2008, but they were not deputed for combat duties. Rather, they were only deployed for rendering law and order duties in troubled areas and at Nathu La to frisk women traders.

6,000 ITBP MEN GUARD INDIA-CHINA BORDER

Himachal shares nearly 190km boundary with China. Of this, 80 km is in Kinnaur and 110 km in Lahual and Spiti. There are nearly 6,000 ITBP men guarding the borders with China. The border areas have usually been peaceful, but of late China is expanding its infrastructure along borders in Himachal.

“There have been a lot of activities on China side, but all these are related to creating infrastructure. Still we have increased vigil,” said an ITBP official requesting anonymity. With China rapidly increasing its infrastructure along the India border, the challenges are more for paramilitary forces manning the border. What adds to the worries is that there is no fencing along the border.

China has constructed airfield at Lupsuk, which is nearly 190 km from last border point Kaurik, which is the last village situated beyond Sumdoh.

Shipki La is a high mountain pass and the border post on the India-China border at a height of 18,599 feet above sea level. It is through this pass that Sutlej enters India from Tibet. Shiplki La is the main pass through which the Indo-China trade is carried annually. There are many other mountain passes between both the sides, which include, Lepchala Rangla, Ranisha Dob Rang.

But, between the passes, there are many transit routes that are used by the villagers of bordering Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti to cross over to meet their relatives across the border.

ROUTE USED FOR SMUGGLING

In 2009, the police on a tipoff had seized two trucks laden with red sanders — wood found in Andhra Pradesh and is used in Chinese medicines for making musical instruments and is also said to be used as coolant in the obsolete reactors in China.

In 2011, the police caught two trucks laden with pashmina wool smuggled from Chinese villages inside the Indian border. The estimated cost of the seized wool was pegged at around Rs 1.5 crore in the international market. The police seized these trucks near Kharo in Pooh subdivision, 100 km from Nako, a village close to the China border in the district.