http://www.taipeitimes.com/News/world/archives/2016/08/23/2003653717
150
15
Agencies

CHINA

Live fire in Gulf of Tonkin

The coast guard launched live-firing exercises in the Gulf of Tonkin yesterday, the latest in a series of military drills that come amid renewed tensions among disputants to territory in the South China Sea. The Maritime Safety Administration said ships and boats were barred from the area between its southern island province of Hainan and the northern coast of Vietnam from yesterday through Wednesday. The navy and air force have held a series of drills in surrounding waters since an international arbitration panel in The Hague, Netherlands, issued a ruling last month invalidating Beijing’s claim to virtually the entire South China Sea.

JAPAN

First lady visits Pearl Harbor

First Lady Akie Abe visited the US’ Pearl Harbor to pay tribute to the victims of the Japanese attack 75 years ago. Abe yesterday said on Facebook that she offered flowers and a prayer at the Arizona Memorial. She did not elaborate on her visit that comes amid looming speculation about a similar visit by her husband, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga acknowledged that the first lady was in Hawaii to attend an environmental conference. Speculation about Shinzo Abe’s possible visit to Pearl Harbor has grown since US President Barack Obama paid tribute in May to the victims of the US atomic bombing in Hiroshima. No serving Japanese prime minister has visited Pearl Harbor.

CAMBODIA

Police crack down on cheats

The nation deployed 1,570 police at high-school exam test sites across the country yesterday as part of a government crack down on bribery and corruption in the education system. Testing sites were cordoned off in the capital Phnom Penh and students were patted down by officials to check for cheat sheets and mobile devices as their relatives waited outside. “We are doing all of this to guarantee transparency and quality in the education system,” Ministry of Education spokesperson Ros Salin told reporters. In past years, students brought mobile phones and cheat sheets into exam rooms and bribed teachers to ignore cheating. Advocacy group Affiliated Network for Social Accountability Cambodia representative San Chey said cheating was deep-rooted in the education system. “Before, bribes in exams and test leaks were done openly, which helped to push up the pass rates,” he said. The government blitz on cheating has seen exam pass rates drop in recent years. In 2014, the Grade 12 exam pass rates was cut in half to 40.67 percent and last year it fell to 55.87 percent, according to Education Ministry figures.

NETHERLANDS

Militant admits guilt at trial

The trial of a Muslim militant over the destruction of holy sites in Timbuktu during Mali’s 2012 conflict began in The Hague yesterday, the first at the International Criminal Court to cite destroying cultural artifacts as a war crime. Ahmad al-Faqi al-Mahdi pled guilty to ordering the 2012 attacks on the fabled city of Timbuktu, becoming the first person to plead guilty at the world’s only permanent war crimes court. “Your honour, regrettably I have to say that what I heard so far is accurate and reflects the events. I plead guilty,” Ahmad al-Faqi al-Mahdi told the International Criminal Court after the solo charge of cultural destruction was read to him.