https://au.news.yahoo.com/thewest/a/32474784/man-on-manslaughter-charge-over-death-of-boy-14-in-boulder/
154
15
About 200 people have gathered at the site where a 14-year-old boy died in Kalgoorlie on Monday to pay their respects in a quiet candlelight vigil - a stark contrast to the scenes of violence that played out in the city today.

VIDEO Pepper spray used in Kalgoorlie riots

Mourners gathered around 5.30pm, set up camp fires and settled in for the night.

There were no police.

Mourners at the vigil tonight. Picture Danella Bevis/The West Australian

The day was marked by violent clashes on Kalgoorlie's main street and outside the courthouse, where windows and glass doors were smashed.

The violence erupted as a 55-year-old man charged with manslaughter over the death of the teenager waited to appear in court.

His appearance was delayed by the clashes.

Picture: Danella Bevis/The West Australian

Extra police have been sent to Kalgoorlie tonight and there is a ban on the sale of takeaway alcohol in the city as police attempt to regain control.

Up to 12 police officers were injured during clashes with a crowd of more than 250 people on Kalgoorlie's main street as tensions flared over the alleged manslaughter of the boy.

Five police cars were damaged and at least three people were arrested following the angry scenes.

Police with riot shields and batons in the main street. Picture Danella Bevis/The West Australian

Police were pelted with rocks and glass bottles.

In a statement released this afternoon, police said they would maintain a strong visible presence in the community and were working closely with Aboriginal elders.

An abrupt decision was made to postpone the Kalgoorlie Court appearance of a 55-year-old man accused of the alleged manslaughter following the violence.

The boy's family, who were waiting in court for man to appear, were ushered back on to the street after the court appearance was cancelled.

Court windows smashed

The man charged with manslaughter over the boy’s death is unlikely to appear in person in the court, instead appearing via video link.

VIDEO Windows smashed at Kalgoorlie court house

Family and friends of the teenager shook open the gate to the court and used decorative stones to smash two large windows.

Traffic was stopped on Kalgoorlie's main street.

WA Police Acting Commander Darryl Gaunt said the court was initially locked down because protesters became unruly, then people climbed over fences and police cars to get into the court complex.

Tension in the streets. Picture: Danella Bevis/The West Australian

“When they were told to leave, they threw missiles at the building and we had to lock down the building,” he said.

“Some people made it inside so we had to secure the court and evacuate all the staff.”

The violence continued in the street with several shops forced to shut.

Mr Gaunt said 12 officers were injured, with one requiring stitches, while five police cars and a nearby business were damaged.

Several people have been arrested for assaulting police and disorderly conduct, while several more are expected to be charged after video footage is checked.

VIDEO Angry protestors gather around Kalgoorlie courthouse

Mr Gaunt has more than 30 years experience as a policeman and said he had never seen anything like it before.

He said some social media commentary had been disgusting and racist.

“It has absolutely inflamed the situation, without a doubt.”

He said the victim’s family and Aboriginal elders supported police and tried to calm the protesters.

The accused man, who cannot be named, eventually appeared in court and was remanded in custody to appear in Stirling Gardens Magistrates Court in Perth via video link on Wednesday.

Mr Gaunt said the man and his family had been removed from Kalgoorlie for their safety.

“There is nothing to suggest at all that it’s a racist issue. It’s a death of a child who happens to be Aboriginal,” he said.

VIDEO Perth morning newsbreak

Police said the charge was based on the evidence available and warned people to protest peacefully.

“Officers will maintain a strong visible presence in the community and will take action against those identified as breaking the law,” the statement read.

Some signs held by peaceful protesters read: “All lives matter. Save our kids. Australia against racism.”

City chief executive John Walker said that after calm was restored, street sweepers cleaned up the debris and an area was set up for the community to grieve where a vigil would also be held.

The alcohol ban will be reviewed on Wednesday.

-----

Police said that they were called at around 8:55am to an area near the corner of Clancy Street and Ivanhoe Street in Boulder where the 14-year-old youth was found dead.

The boy is believed to have been fatally injured following an incident involving a motorcycle that was reported stolen on Sunday.

The second vehicle involved in the incident, a Nissan Navara utility, was linked to the owner of the stolen motorcycle.

Detectives are still investigating the circumstances surrounding the tragedy - while also keeping a close watch on community tensions, which were evident among grieving family members who gathered at the crash site yesterday.

On social media, dozens of messages of grief, support and anger were posted by those close to the boy, while others contained accusations that calls for 'vigilante' action over crime in Kalgoorlie had spilled onto the streets.

'A happy-go-lucky kid'

An aunty of the boy, who was a talented under-14 footballer, said his death was the third in the family over the past few weeks, and the family was reeling from the tragedy.

“He survived all circumstances he found himself in and was a beautiful brother to the sisters he protected.”

“He was a very happy-go-lucky kid – he was never a bad kid,” she said.

“He was always someone who lifted other people’s spirits whenever times were hard.

VIDEO Angry protest over manslaughter charges

“He was not a straight-A student but his circumstances were hard, he struggled at school but he had other issues to prioritise,” she said.

Other family members also called for community action against alleged anti-indigenous feeling on various Kalgoorlie crime Facebook pages.

Tyre marks from a vehicle were clearly visible along the route the teenager is believed to have taken from the road into the scrub.

Police had initially lined the taped-off crime scene as family and friends gathered throughout Monday to mourn the teenager.

VIDEO Protestors storm Kalgoorlie courthouse

Mayor calls for calm

City of Kalgoorlie-Boulder acting mayor Allan Pendal said the city was fully supporting the police in calling for calm.

“We’re not interfering with what the police are doing,” he said.

“Any sort of these incidents are concerning, when innocent people are put at risk.

“This is in the middle of our CBD, there’d be shop owners locked in their shops.

“Anything like is very uncomfortable for everyone.”

Cr Pendal said the City had offered the police support.