http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/traffic-cop-thrashed/article8431162.ece
154
15
In a suspected case of road rage, a traffic policeman was thrashed by a car driver in North-East Delhi's Nand Nagri after he tried to persuade the driver to park his car in a correct manner and not threaten a rickshaw puller on Saturday night.

The policeman, identified as Vivek Sharma, was slapped and punched by the accused, who appeared to be an inebriated state according to Mr. Sharma. The traffic cop’s uniform was also torn by the accused.

A police officer said that 27-year-old Sharma was deployed as the driver of an Assistant Commissioner of Delhi Police. “Sharma had dropped the ACP at his home and as per the procedure was going to leave the official Gypsy at the Nand Nagri police station at around 10.30 p.m. But as soon as he reached the police station, he noticed a car driver quarrelling with a rickshaw puller,” said a senior police officer.

Mr. Sharma tried to intervene and honked a few times. The furious driver first objected verbally and then threatened Mr. Sharma. When the latter continued honking, the driver, later identified as Hari Prasad, got down from his vehicle and entered into an argument with Mr. Sharma.

This soon accelerated into a scuffle and Prasad tore the uniform of the policeman, the officer said.

Hari Prasad’s brother runs a shop next to the police station. It is alleged that Prasad soon went there and returned with a knife with an intent to stab Mr. Sharma.

However, around the same time a police control room (PCR) van was passing by and the staff quickly swung into action and nabbed Prasad.

On Sunday morning, Mr. Sharma filed a complaint.

Based on his statement a case under Indian Penal Code Sections 353 (Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 332 (Voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty) and 186 (Obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) and 506 (Criminal Intimidation) was registered.

Prasad was subsequently arrested.

The car driver, who slapped and punched the cop at Nand Nagri, appeared to be in an inebriated state