http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/658173/EU-migrant-crisis-Angela-Merkel-Germany-refugees-police-border
153
15
GETTY Alexander Dobrindt tonight tore into Angela Merkel's open door asylum policy

In a stunning attack Transport Minister Alexander Dobrindt branded her decision to roll out the red carpet to migrants an abject failure and blasted government inaction which has left Germany relying on its neighbours to stem the tide of people. The scathing rebuke comes as Mrs Merkel's grip on power grows ever weaker, with rebellion growing across the country against her controversial immigration policies.

She has consistently berated other EU states for introducing border controls to bring the migrant flow under control, ever since she made a pledge last summer to welcome all Syrians with open arms. But tonight Mr Dobrindt said it was time for the chancellor to admit that policy has been a disaster, insisting that Germany cannot persist in offering an "unconditional welcome" to migrants from across the world.

GETTY The German leader is under intense pressure over her immigration policies

GETTY Germany is the destination of choice for most migrants

He also called on Mrs Merkel to dispatch police to the Alps to help Austrian police shore up mountain passes between northern Europe and Italy. Mr Dobrindt, a member of the Bavarian Christian Social Union (CSU) which has been savagely critical of the German leader's open door asylum policy, told the Muenchner Merkur paper: "Germany could contribute and support Austrian efforts at the Brenner (Pass) with manpower. "Germany can not rely on our neighbours to get it right. We need to show that we are ready and able ourselves."

GETTY Mr Dobrindt urged his leader to send police to the border

GETTY Mrs Merkel's migration policies have proved deeply unpopular

Germany must send to the world a signal that there is not a culture of unconditional welcome here Transport Minister Alexander Dobrindt

He added: "Germany must send to the world a signal that there is not a culture of unconditional welcome here. "It would be wrong to let the refugees hope they could still make their way to us. Those who are looking for a better life should not be allowed to easily come to Germany." His comments fly in the face of the rhetoric from Mrs Merkel, who has been critical of tighter border controls and is instead banking on a EU-Turkey deal that took effect on Monday. The scheme gives Ankara political and financial benefits in return for taking back refugees and migrants who have crossed to Greece in the hope of slowing the flow.