http://uk.onlinenigeria.com/latest-additions/190524-eu-migrant-deportation-deal-%E2%80%98under-threat%E2%80%99-after-violent-protests-and-staff-shortages.html
153
15
Home | News | Latest Additions | EU migrant deportation deal ‘UNDER THREAT’ after violent protests and staff shortages

A DEAL struck by the European Union to evict tens of thousands of migrants from Greece to Turkey has been thrown into chaos amid fears of staff shortages and violent protests at refugee camps.

The EU had hoped the controversial deal – in which Brussels bureaucrats agreed to give Turkey €6million to take more migrants – would act as a deterrent to migrants coming to Europe.

But it has been thrown into serious doubt following riots in the Greek islands of Lesbos and Chios.

To compound the mounting problems facing the 28-member bloc, Greek officials are said to have no idea how many migrants are to be deported today.

The deal also includes an agreement for Europe to take on one Syrian refugee for every migrant returned to Turkey.

In the latest blow for the EU, sources revealed that Brussels has only deployed half the number of border guards needed to handled the deportation numbers.

It has also been claimed that Greek authorities have been unable to identify migrants to be deported because of a lack of translators while there are fears yesterday’s riots on the Greek islands have made it almost impossible to deport large numbers of migrants.

The EU’s Frontex border agency admitted it had less than half the officials needed to carry out the deportations, leaving the EU’s deal with Turkey in the balance.

In a further blow, United Nations officials have warned the bloc against the large-scale deportation because of serious gaps in human rights for refugees in Turkey.

Demonstrations are expected to take place on the Turkish coastal resort of Dikili, where migrants from the Greek islands are to be deported to.

An insider told the Times: “Everything is still in flux. The plan is [for] a limited number of returns and resettlements.”

It was expected that more than 5,000 people from the Greek islands’ camp site will be expelled.

But it is now feared that due to lack of resources the number could be as low as 200.

Speaking about the protests by migrants at the weekend, Greek government migration spokesman George Kyritsis said: “Violence and unrest is anticipated.

“These people spent their livelihoods to get here, to seek protection. But now they feel they have been duped and cheated by Europe.”

The migrant crisis has affected Greek islands close to the Turkish coastline such as Kos, Chios, Lesbos, Leros and Samos.