http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/goa/Making-safe-drinking-water-out-of-air/articleshow/51679752.cms
154
15
Panaji: Necessity is the mother of all inventions and yet, despite the impending water crisis, no thought has been given to creating spinoffs of air conditioners that leak water. Several parts of India are parched and the sight of women walking miles with pots of water stacked on their head is a familiar sight. The districts of Kolar and Tumkur in Karnataka are no different.Most of tanks and wells in the districts have dried up and the groundwater table is fast depleting. Any water pumped from nearly 1,000-foot-deep bore wells contains fluoride and other chemicals.In Karnataka, most of villages and farmers depend on bore wells for water but at 4 lakh to 6 lakh, the cost for digging a bore well is not cheap. "The success rate of bore wells is 2% to 5%. If the bore well is not successful, the amount incurred for digging is a sunk cost," S Sudhakara Rao said.Rao is the chief executive officer of Skywater India Private Limited (SWI). Realizing that the same principle at work in an air conditioner could benefit thousands of individuals who have little or no access to safe water, Rao adopted US-patented technology to convert water vapour into water.The device uses refrigeration techniques to condense humidity from the air into water. The water is then passed through various filters to remove solids, odour and bacterial content. Pure, cold drinking water is then supplied through the spout, Rao said.The machine was showcased at the just concluded DefExpo. "The device would be also very useful to units and sub-units of defence forces and para military forces deployed in areas where there is no source of water," said advisor to the company Venkatesh Pakala."The atmospheric water generator is a very sophisticated machine that generates Ozone-treated pure drinking water and is highly energy efficient," Rao said.According to the World Bank, 88% of all diseases are caused by unsafe drinking water, inadequate sanitation and poor hygiene. In India alone more than 70% of patients at any hospital suffer from water borne diseases.Based out of Hyderabad, Sky Water India Private Limited focuses on the manufacturing of air to water machines. "Given a certain range of temperatures and humidity levels, our machine produces anywhere from 500 litres to over 1,000 litres per day." Rao added.Rao shared that the technology has been used to provide drinking water to government schools in Kolar and Tumkur district and one in Siddlagatta municipal corporation office under a pilot project.Skywater has now proposed to supply the same machines to bring clean, pure water to the people of Meghalaya, especially those living in Garo and Khasi hills. "Due to the nature of the terrains, most of the ground water has high traces of sulphur, iron or arsenic," Rao said.The Meghalaya public health engineering department has ordered 100 units to address the iron contamination across Meghalaya and of these 51 units have been successfully installed and commissioned, Rao said.