http://www.india.com/news/india/west-bengal-assembly-elections-2016-major-candidates-and-key-electoral-seats-in-first-phase-of-polls-1080010/
153
15
Kolkata, April 4: The first phase’s first part has kicked off in West Bengal, where voters will decide the fate of 133 candidates by casting their valuable votes in 4,945 polling stations set up across 18 constituencies. Out of which, 13 are highly sensitive areas and 350 companies of Central armed forces have been deployed to tackle any nuisance.

The information provided by the Election Commission of India states that the polling will take place till 6 pm today, but in sensitive areas it will conclude by 4 pm only. Three districts — Paschim Medinipur, Purulia and Bankura — are under the monitor of Election Commissioner Nasim Zaidi directly, as being naxal-affected and ample amount of arrangements have been made for the successful conduction of the polls. It is aloso known that 118 companies of armed forces have been deployed in Jangalmahal only, where two helicopters for aerial surveillance and an air ambulance kept as standby. Quick Response Security teams have also been stationed for emergency. ALSO READ: Assembly Elections 2016: Polls for first phase in Assam, West Bengal begins

With 1,962 are in sensitive area polling booth in highly-sensitive areas and mostly in dense forests, polling will take place till 4 pm only. Adequate arrangements like 14 general observers, 676 micro observers, 202 digital cameras, 642 video cameras, 210 CCTVs have been put for fiar polling in the first phase. The administration has already held 1,14,000 goons behind bars. But before you cast your valuable votes, here are some details about the main candidates in fray.

Dr Sukumar Hansda from Trinamool Congress: Dr Hansda is a Minister-in-Charge of Tribal Affairs department in Mamata Banerjee’s government. He is contesting from Naxal-hit Jhargram constituency in Pashim Medinapur and is an MBBS, He has declared his asset of Rs 2,25,460. The leader has a clean image with no case registered under his name.

Shantiram Mahat for TMC: Mahat is a Minister of Paschimanchal Unnayan (development of western districts) in Mamata Banerjee’s government. Contesting from Naxal-hit Balaramapur constituency in Purulia, he has been a known face since 4 and half years. Mahat has declared his education as school final and there are around 11 cases booked under his name. The minister has declared his asset worth Rs 53,93,211.

Amiya Patra from Communist Party of India (Marxist): Patra is a state secretariat member of the left front and is contesting from Taldangra constituency in Bankura district. A known face among the voters and a liked candidate, Patra has done his B.Sc and has zero cases registered under his name. He has declared his assets with ECI worth Rs 59,55,055.

Among the parties contesting the election in the first phase, BJP and All India TMC is contesting in all the 18 seats, while CPI(M) is fighting for 13 seats and had given 5 seats to its ally Congress.