http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/NIT-Srinagar-reopens-three-days-after-clashes-over-Indias-T20-loss/articleshow/51684981.cms
154
15
SRINAGAR: The National Institute of Technology (NIT) reopened on Monday, three days after it was closed following a clash between Kashmiri and non-Kashmiri students. The clash was triggered after some Kashmiri students celebrated India's defeat in the World Twenty20 semi-final on Thursday.Authorities decided to reopen the institute after the two student groups met amid deployment of a police contingent on the campus. A Human Resource Development ministry team separately arrived here on Saturday and met NIT director Rajat Gupta to inquire about the situation following the clash, which had forced authorities to call police.In reaction to the celebrations by Kashmiri students following India's defeat, non-Kashmiri students waved the tricolour on campus and tried to hoist it near NIT's administrative block on Friday. Some pro-separatist youth tried to intervene and clashed with pro-Indian non-Kashmiri students, who in retaliation pounced upon them. The non-Kashmiri students allegedly even thrashed the college teacher Shoiab Showkat, who happens to be the son of Molvi Showkat Shah, former president of Jamiat-e-Ahl-e-Hadees, who was killed in a blast in April 2011 outside his mosque in Gowkadal area.A student from Bihar said the trouble started brewing when they staged a sit-in outside Gupta's office, raising pro-India slogans and demanding action against the Kashmiri students, who celebrated India's defeat. He said the Kashmiri students misbehaved with the non-Kashmiri students and raised "pro-Pakistan, pro-azadi and anti-India'' slogans. "The situation worsened when the Kashmiri students, who are less than 20%, resisted the sit-in."A Kashmiri student said they were assaulted and one of them was even dragged when he tried to stop their attackers. "They beat up canteen staff members and one courier boy, who had come with some delivery material, as well," he said. He added the non-Kashmiri students asked them to chant slogans like "Bharat Mata Ki Jai". "The residents of the locality did not intervene. The situation would (otherwise) have turned uglier," he said.Gupta told TOI a majority of 2,500 students at his institute are from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and other states and outnumber Kashmiris. "There was never any kind of politics (on the) NIT (campus)," he said. He said some local students living in a hostel provoked other students by bursting crackers following India's defeat. Gupta said they have formed a fact-finding committee to probe the clash and propose action against the erring students. The director added the institute is well-protected and no outsider can enter the campus.BJP member of parliament Tarun Vijay lauded the "patriotic students'' for teaching separatists "a good lesson" by holding the flag high. He asked the state government to protect the flag-waving students and keep the campus free of politics. Vijay said he spoke to Srinagar police chief Syed Javaid Mujtaba Gillani and appreciated his efforts to deal with the situation. "We do not want to see a single corner in our nation where anyone can (raise) anti-India slogans. They must be dealt with promptly and appropriately."On Saturday, Kashmir University (KU) students held a protest march against the assault on Kashmiri students. A KU Students Union statement called the "crafted episode" on NIT campus "a glaring example of how even the campuses and institutes in the Valley are being colonised and made hostile for Kashmiri students by the Indian state."Pro-separatist sentiments run high in most educational institutions in the Valley including the KU. Some KU teachers support separatism openly on national TV channels, which has forced the local intelligence unit to recommend denial of passports to them. Separatist elements have even infiltrated the newly-established Central University as well.