http://en.farsnews.com/newstext.aspx?nn=13950116000995
150
15
Defense

Deputy Chief of Staff Warns US to Stay Away from Iran's Redlines

TEHRAN (FNA)- Deputy Chief of Staff of Armed Forces Brigadier General Massoud Jazzayeri warned the US officials that Iran's missile power is a redline which can no way be encroached.

"The US calculations about the Islamic Republic and the Iranian nation are fully incorrect," Jazzayeri said on Monday.

"The White House should know that defense capacities and missile power, specially at the present juncture where plots and threats are galore, is among the Iranian nation's redlines and a backup for the country's national security and we don’t allow anyone to violate it," he added.

Jazzayeri described as "ridiculous" US President Barack Obama's attempts to link facilitated removal of the sanctions with a halt to Iran's missile program, and said the Americans' rationale and line of action is based on making vows and breaking them.

His remarks came after the US and certain other western states have been witnessed as dragging their feet in implementing undertakings based on the nuclear deal which included removal of sanctions against Tehran.

In relevant remarks last month, Supreme Leader of Islamic Revolution Ayatollah Seyed Ali Khamenei lashed out at the US for not remaining loyal to its undertakings based on the July nuclear agreement between Tehran and the world powers.

"The Americans did not act on what they promised in the nuclear accord (the JCPOA); they did not do what they should have done. According to Foreign Minister (Mohammad Javad Zarif), they brought something on the paper but prevented materialization of the objectives of the Islamic Republic of Iran through many diversionary ways," Ayatollah Khamenei said, addressing a large group of people in the holy city of Mashhad, Northeastern Iran.

"What a hue and cry did they launch in the case of the missiles: Why Iran has long-ranged missiles? Why they (Iranians) aim and point to the target so precisely? Why they (Iranians) tested and why you (we Iranians) do military exercise?" he added.

"The Americans and one of the regional countries launch wargames every now and then in the Persian Gulf, which is several thousands of kilometers away of their country, while they have no responsibility there. Iran carries out military exercise in its own security boundary and home," Ayatollah Khamenei stated.

Also late March, Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif said the US government is duty-bound to fulfill its undertakings as per the nuclear deal reached between Tehran and the world powers.

“It does not matter which political party takes the helm. The nuclear deal, known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), is Washington’s commitment, and it has nothing to do with who is in power at the White House,” Zarif said.

He noted that the baseless allegations made during the presidential elections campaign should never be taken seriously, as JCPOA is a commitment of the US government and it does not matter who will win the next presidential race.

The Iranian foreign minister reiterated that the US government has made commitments that it should undertake, adding, “Unfortunately, some presidential candidates are pursuing mischief by using the poisonous atmosphere created by the Zionist lobby in Washington.”

“With the serious follow-up of the Islamic Republic of Iran, the US government is obliged to execute its commitments not only in theory but in practice,” Zarif said.