https://in.news.yahoo.com/top-asian-news-4-03-m-gmt-040359742.html
151
15
UNITED NATIONS (AP) — World leaders gather at the United Nations for their annual meeting Tuesday with an array of global crises that desperately need solutions, topped by the Syrian conflict, escalating attacks around the world by Islamic extremists, and millions of people fleeing fighting and poverty. Whether the 135 heads of state and government and more than 50 ministers are able to make any progress before the high-level meeting of the General Assembly ends on Sept. 26 remains to be seen. While hopes are high, expectations are low. The leaders are meeting against a backdrop of rising ethnic and religious tension, fighting elsewhere in the Mideast and Africa, a warming planet, and unfulfilled goals to give every child in the world a primary school education and to achieve equality for women.

SEOUL, South Korea (AP) — North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has overseen a ground test of a new rocket engine and ordered a satellite launch preparation, state media said Tuesday, an indication the country might soon conduct a prohibited long-range rocket launch. The United Nations and others view the North's space launch development project as a cover for tests of missile technology, as ballistic missiles and rockets in satellite launches share similar bodies, engines and other technology. North Korea is also openly working on developing nuclear-armed missiles capable of striking the U.S. mainland. Kim directed the ground test of a high-powered engine of a carrier rocket for a geo-stationary satellite at the Sohae Space Center in the country's northwest, according to the official Korean Central News Agency.

UNITED NATIONS (AP) — World leaders on Monday approved a declaration aimed at providing a more coordinated and humane response to the refugee crisis that has strained resources and sparked divisions from Africa to Europe. The issue of what to do about the world's 65.3 million displaced people took center stage at the U.N. General Assembly with leaders from the 193 member states taking part in the first-ever summit on Addressing Large Movements of Refugees and Migrants. Advocacy groups worried that the New York Declaration on Migrants and Refugees — an outcome document which contains no concrete commitments and is not legally binding — falls short of what is needed, while U.N.

TOKYO (AP) — North Korea is an economic basket case that incomprehensively pours resources into nuclear weapons and cares only about enriching a tiny circle of elites when it can't even feed its own people. It's an "impossible state," as one former U.S. diplomat put it, bound to collapse under the weight of its own failed policies, if just given a push. Common sense, right? We've all heard those descriptions thrown around in the media, from the White House, from the U.N. Security Council. But with North Korea facing yet more sanctions and punitive measures over its latest nuclear test, now might be a good time to re-examine those assumptions.

VIENNA (AP) — The head of the International Atomic Energy Agency says North Korea's fifth nuclear test is a "clear violation" of United Nations Security Council resolutions. Yukiya Amano, opening the IAEA board of governors meeting in Vienna on Monday, called for North Korea to allow the return of inspectors, who were last there in April 2009. He says "we keep on training them, updating the verification plan, and we can send them back in short notice." He would not comment on U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry's call for North Korea to freeze its nuclear and missile plans immediately, but called North Korea's test earlier this month "deeply troubling and regrettable." He says "these activities of nuclear testing and launches of missiles are a serious threat to northeast Asia and beyond."

NEW DELHI (AP) — India's prime minister came under increasing pressure Monday from within his own party, as many in the country demanded a strong response to a deadly weekend attack that the government blames on Pakistan-based militants. But amid the calls for revenge, many analysts warned that a military response would be extremely dangerous, and that diplomatic and trade restrictions were far more likely. Early Sunday, fighters slipped into an army base in Indian-controlled Kashmir, killing at least 15 soldiers. Four militants were killed in the attack, which occurred near the highly militarized Line of Control that divides Kashmir between India and Pakistan.

Read More