http://www.thestar.com.my/news/regional/2016/10/12/raids-detain-eight-suspects-after-warning-of-carbombs-in-bangkok/
150
15
BANGKOK: Security authorities in Bangkok have stepped up surveillance in public areas while more than 100 soldiers and police raided several locations in the city Tuesday after warnings of possible bomb attacks in the capital and nearby Samut Prakan province.

Security officials detained eight suspects during the raids, who were taken to Hua Mak Police Station for interrogation.

Pol Colonel Torsak Sukwimon, the Crime Suppression Division's head of special operations, led more than 80 commandos yesterday to boost security at CentralWorld, Siam Square, MBK, Central Plaza Lat Phrao and Esplanade Ratchada in Bangkok, which were ranked among the risky spots.

"We have stationed 20 commandos at each site and they are monitoring vehicles coming in and out of these places," he said. "They will be on duty at these sites until October 30." Torsak said his team also looked into the history of security guards at these places.

Reports had suggested that Bangkok and Samut Prakan may be hit by bomb attacks between October 25 and 30.

Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha said the warning was not unusual, and the public could serve as the authorities' eyes and ears to monitor threats, but the media had to be careful to present the news without causing panic, especially with regard to negative perceptions in foreign countries.

Authorities in metropolitan areas had already been told to take precautionary measures after intelligence officials issued a warning that there could be terrorist attacks in the capital. Shopping centres and department stores were places deemed at-risk, as well as parking lots and tourist areas.

The Australian Embassy warned Thai authorities on Monday about possible attacks. As a result, security personnel have been ordered to step up surveillance at government-owned premises and state agencies, while checking that closed-circuit TV cameras are working.

Authorities were also attempting to ensure that lighting at such areas was adequate at night while security guards' communications equipment had to be fully functional.

Police also dispatched commando units yesterday to inspect the security arrangements at major department stores and shopping centres including Bangkok's Central Lat Phrao branch, while MRT subway stations were being patrolled by security personnel and police canine units.

The police database on stolen vehicles has also been updated, as most vehicles used in car-bombings in the southern provinces have been stolen pick-ups and sedans. Police said more than 30 vehicles had been reported stolen in the far South since 2012, including 10 in Narathiwat, 12 in Pattani and eight in Songkhla.

Police also urged the public to watch for two vehicles - a black Mitsubishi Triton pickup with the Yala licence plate Bor Tor 3597 and a black Honda sedan with the Bangkok licence plate Wor Tor 1563 - as both vehicles were used to transport suspects during the August attacks in seven provinces. The vehicles may be used in car-bombs in the far South, authorities warned.

Samut Prakan police yesterday searched an apartment on Sukhumvit Road, where a bombing suspect was staying. Preecha Samali, 39, a Yala resident, was taken to the local police station for further questioning after multiple parcel boxes, mobile-phone equipment and a notebook computer were found inside his room.

Prayut stressed that further inquiries were required regarding the intelligence report. "I don't know anything yet. Allow officers some time to do their work," he said, urging journalists that reporting on the issue could have a "great impact".

Asked if he was very concerned about the security situation in October, the month when the Barisan Revolusi Nasional movement celebrates its establishment, Prayut replied: "Just let them be. There are also other special days around the year. Why focus on that day? It's no use amplifying this issue." – The Nation/Asia News Network.