http://www.express.co.uk/news/uk/720097/Angela-Merkel-trade-war-Brexit-EU-Referendum-Gerald-Howarth-Twitter
130
13
AFP Sir Gerald Howarth (right) with Slovakia's defence minister Lubomir Galko

The MP for Aldershot Sir Gerald Howarth posted the message aimed at the German Chancellor on Twitter and suggested decreased trade between the UK and EU would not do anyone good. The move is a direct riposte to Mrs Merkel’s statement earlier this week when she addressed German business leaders and stated that the principles of the EU should not be dropped in any post-Brexit deal. The full message read: “Frau Merkel, the UK rejected free movement. It’s free trade or a trade war. German business won’t be clapping if we stop buying BMWs #brexit”.

Getty Sir Gerald Howarth (right) with then Prime Minister David Cameron

Brexit aftershocks: Who's next to leave the EU? Wed, September 14, 2016 Britain has voted to leave the EU. So who's next? We look at which European countries want to hold their own EU referendum. Play slideshow Express 1 of 10 Frexit, Nexit or Auxit? Who will be next to leave the EU

Earlier this week Mrs Merkel had said: “If we don’t say that full access to the internal market is linked to full acceptance of the four fundamental freedoms, a process will spread in Europe in which everyone does what they want.” Brexit supporters have been enboldened after the Tory cabinet minister in charge of Brexit David Davis said that MPs will not be allowed to block or delay Britain’s exit from the European Union. He told MPs: “We will reject any attempt to undo the referendum result, any attempt to hold up the process unduly, or any attempt to keep Britain in the EU by the back door by those who didn’t like the answer they were given on June 23.”

Getty German Chancellor Angela Merkel

It’s free trade or a trade war Sir Gerald Howarth on Twitter

Earlier today the former Chancellor George Osborne told the House of Commons Business Committee that Britain should make deals both with its near neighbours in Europe as well as countries further afield such as Australia. This week, the team behind US Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump confirmed that Britain would be ahead of the EU in any trade deal, should he be elected to the White House. Sir Gerald is a strong supporter of the British defence industry and was minister for internatinal security strategy for two years under David Cameron.

Getty David Davis