http://www.business-standard.com/article/pti-stories/after-sc-rap-kejriwal-jain-meet-l-g-over-dengue-chikungunya-116100501187_1.html
138
13
After SC rap, Kejriwal, Jain meet L-G over dengue, chikungunya

A day after apex asked the government to stop blame game over outbreak of vector- borne diseases, Chief Minister Kejriwal and his Cabinet colleague Satyendar Jain the Lieutenant Governor and agreed to fight chikungunya and dengue "together".



The meeting between Najeeb Jung and Kejriwal, who has often targeted the L-G over several issues, came after four months.



In the meeting, Health Minister Jain explained the government's stance to the L-G, who directed departments concerned to intensify fight against vector-borne diseases, especially in the wake of recent rains.



He directed the Health Secretary to hold weekly review meeting.



"We reviewed preparedness relating to dengue and chikungunya. Numbers of cases of these diseases have come down significantly. In the meeting, all have agreed to fight chikungunya and dengue cases," Jain told reporters after attending the meeting at L-G Secretariat.



The L-G office in a statement said the MCD commissioners informed they have drawn a roster for field visits by DCs, which is being followed strictly.



Till October 1, 2,133 dengue and 5,293 chikungunya cases have been reported in Delhi. In the national capital, dengue has claimed 21 live while chikungunya 15.



Yesterday, the apex had warned the government against any blame game over the issue, directing Kejriwal and Jain to meet with the L-G today to chalk out a strategy to curb vector-borne diseases.



"There is no question of playing any blame game. You have the responsibility to look after the people of Delhi," a bench of justices M B Lokur and L Nageswara Rao had said yesterday.



Medical superintendents of major hospitals including those of Hindu Rao, GB Pant, Lok Nayak, B S Ambedkar told Jung fever clinics and wards are operational round-the-clock and testing kits and medicines are available in all hospitals.



They also said number of fever patients has come down by 40-50 per cent in the last few days, which is a general trend across all hospitals.



Jung asked Metro Rail Corporation to ensure no water collects at their construction sites and adequate sprinkling is done to check breeding of mosquitoes.



Moreover, as per directions of L-G critical dhalaos in all municipal wards are being cleaned twice every day.



The Health Secretary and DHS informed Jung as per reports till 10.30 AM on 5 October, from across hospitals, 25 per cent beds dedicated to fever patients are lying vacant.



The L-G asked the GM (Northern Railway) to increase the frequency of the mosquito terminating trains, since people living alongside the railway tracks are particularly vulnerable.

(This story has not been edited by Business Standard staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)

Press Trust of India