http://news2.onlinenigeria.com/news/general/507990-christian-fightback-astonishing-plan-to-liberate-land-from-vile-isis.html
154
15
Home | News | General | CHRISTIAN FIGHTBACK: Astonishing plan to liberate land from vile ISIS

ISIS took the city of Mosul in Iraq in June 2014 and embarked on a terrifying campaign of ethnic cleansing.



Hundreds of thousands of Christians fled from Mosul and the Nineveh Plains after the crazed jihadis issued an ultimatum - convert to Islam or be beheaded.

Christians face abduction, attack and sexual abuse at the hands of extremists and fears have been raised Christianity could be on the verge of extinction under ISIS.

Already the Christian population of Iraq has been decimated from two million in 2003 to just 180,000 today.

But two years on the displaced believers have launched a plan to liberate their city and held a memorial event to mark two years away from their homes.

In a Christian refugee camp in Erbil, Iraq the central square was filled with people, all carrying a candle.

They also held papers saying 'Liberate Mosul'.

Martin, who is training to be a church leader, said: "Of course we want to go back to our houses, unlock the doors and start rebuilding. Jesus tells us to forgive, not to forget.

"We can stand up for our rights and ask to be respected as Christians in the Iraqi society, ask for a liberation of our village and the rest of the Nineveh Plain area and Mosul."

Unable to fight, the displaced Christians have launched a campaign, encouraging people to post signs saying 'Liberate Mosul' on their homes and businesses around Erbil has been launched.

Mosul has been an ISIS stronghold since 2014

Others around the world have been doing the same, using the hashtag #Liberate_Mosul and posting on social media to stand with the refugees.

Martin said: "It is also a motivator for us to not just sit around and be sad but to become active and start rebuilding here, change our lives according to God's will and show society where our hope comes from.”

Iraq has been named one of the most dangerous places in the world for Christians.

Military vehicles prepare for operations in the Iraqi city of Mosul

Open Doors UK, a Christian advocacy charity, said: “Thousands of Christians were forced from their homes in 2014 to escape the self-proclaimed Islamic State - remaining in IS-controlled territory as a Christian is effectively a death warrant.”

The fight to take back the ISIS stronghold continues with local forces securing key bridges and US-led coalition forces launching air strikes on the jihadis.

Kurdish Peshmerga forces on Monday said they had secured a river crossing point enabling them to open a new front against ISIS and further tighten their grip on the city.

The Iraqi army and the Peshmerga forces of the Kurdish self-rule region are gradually taking up positions around Mosul, 250 miles north of the capital Baghdad.

It was from Mosul's Grand Mosque in 2014 that Islamic State leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi declared a "caliphate" spanning regions of Iraq and Syria.

With a pre-war population of nearly two million, it is the largest urban centre under the militants' control and its fall would mark the effective defeat of ISIS in Iraq, according to Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi, who has said he aims to retake it this year.

Rate this article 0

JUST two years after Islamic State forced more than 100,000 Christians out of their homes in a night of terror, families have revealed they hope to return.

CLICK HERE TO READ MORE FROM: General