http://www.express.co.uk/news/politics/723374/European-Council-summit-Brussels-EU-Theresa-May-Brexit-Donald-Tusk-Angela-Merkel
1312
13
Ahead of a working dinner with the rest of the EU’s heads of states this evening, Mrs May will have the chance to discuss the UK's departure from the bloc prior to the start of formal exit negotiations early next year. European Council president Donald Tusk denied Mrs May would be facing a "lion's den" amid EU anger at Britain's decision to quit the bloc. But Mr Hollande warned the Prime Minister she will face an aggressive EU if she pushes for a clean break with the bloc when proper talks begin early next year. The French leader said: “Theresa May is coming today as a member of the European Council. “She has not yet activated Article 50 so she is part of all the discussions about Europe. As long as the UK has not left, the UK is part of the EU." But he added: "I say very firmly, if Mrs May wants a hard Brexit, the negotiations will be hard." The Prime Minister has signalled she is likely to consider withdrawing Britain’s membership of the EU’s single market and customs union as part of Brexit, in order to take back control of the UK’s borders and strike free trade deals with non-EU nations. This has been dubbed a 'hard' Brexit by pro-EU politicians.

Mr Tusk said he was “very happy to welcome” Mrs May to her first European Council summit this afternoon. He added: "Some media described her first meeting at the European Council as 'entering the lion's den'. It's not true! "It's more like a nest of doves, just look at me! "You can be so sure, she'll be absolutely safe with us. And I hope that she'll also realise the EU is still the best company in the world." But Mr Tusk insisted this week's summit would "absolutely not" be the time to begin formal Brexit negotiations, which he claimed was also at the request of the Prime Minister. He added: "We will not discuss about our future negotiations today. "It's also a request from Theresa May that we need only today a short information about her intentions and not discussions, not pre-negotiations. "We have to wait for the formal decision on Article 50." German Chancellor Angela Merkel also confirmed Brexit will only form a small part of the summit.

GETTY French president Francois Hollande warned Mrs May she faces 'hard' Brexit negotiations

European Parliament president Martin Schulz repeated the hardline stance about any discussions on Britain’s EU exit before Mrs May triggers Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty. Earlier this month, the Prime Minister vowed to invoke the legal mechanism for quitting the bloc by the end of March next year. Mr Schulz said: "Announcing to trigger Article 50 is not to trigger Article 50. We should not run in a trap. The announcement is not a fact." The German politician also repeated the EU’s warning Britain cannot retain full access to the bloc’s single market without continuing free movement of people. Mrs May has made introducing immigration controls a ‘red line’ in Brexit talks. Mr Schulz added: "They have decided to leave the single market and they want full access to the single market after leaving the European Union. “That's only possible by accepting the fundamental rules of the EU."

GETTY European Council president Donald Tusk insisted the PM would not be facing a 'lion's den'

GETTY German Chancellor Angela Merkel confirmed Brexit would only be a small part of the EU discussions

It's more like a nest of doves, just look at me! European Council president Donald Tusk

On her arrival at the European Council building, the Prime Minister insisted Britain would continue to "play a full role" in the EU until the country's exit. She also vowed to carry on the UK's co-operation on global issues such as Russia's bombing of civilians in Syria. She said: "This is my first European Council and I'm here with a very clear message. "The UK is leaving the EU but we will continue to play a full role until we leave and we'll be a strong and dependable partner after we've left. "It's in the interests of both the UK and the EU that we continue to work closely together, including at this summit."

GETTY European Parliament boss Martin Schulz told Britain it won't have full access to the single market

GETTY Theresa May arrives in Brussels ahead of the European Council summit

Signalling she would push the EU to consider greater sanctions on Russia over its military actions in war-torn Syria, Mrs May added: "We must show that robust and united European stance in the face of Russian aggression. "The UK has put Russian actions in Syria on the agenda for this summit. "We must continue to work together and it's vital that we work together to continue to put pressure on Russia to stop its appalling atrocities, its sickening atrocities in Syria." But Mr Tusk revealed although EU leaders would discuss Russia's actions in Syria and the bombing of Aleppo, there would be no clear decisions taken at this week's talks. He said: It's really difficult, even impossible to talk about this and not refer to the current attacks on civilians and hospitals in Aleppo. "Today is not about decisions, but I want to underline that the EU should keep all options open including sanctions if their crimes continue."

EU summit 2016: EU leaders meet Fri, October 21, 2016 EU Leaders meet to discuss migration, trade and Russia, including its role in Syria, it will be also the first summit attended by new British Prime Minister Theresa May. Play slideshow AFP/Getty Images 1 of 29 Italy's Prime minister Matteo Renzi (L) speaks with Luxembourg's Prime minister Xavier Bettel during the second day of an European Union leaders summit