http://nation.com.pk/international/21-Aug-2016/us-pulls-troops-backing-yemen-campaign-out-of-ksa
150
15
WASHINGTON - US military personnel coordinating support for a Saudi Arabia-led campaign in Yemen have been withdrawn from the country, according to a media report citing American officials.



The announcement comes at the end of a week of several high-profile incidents in which Saudi warplanes attacked and killed significant numbers of Yemeni civilians, including an attack on a school and the bombing of a Doctors Without Borders facility.



Pentagon officials, however, insist that the drawdown is unrelated to international concerns about civilian deaths, and that it “does not diminish US commitment to supporting Saudi-led military operations.

” They added that a re-escalation was possible.



Saudi officials declined to directly comment on the report, saying the moving of US personnel had no impact on the war, and that they continue to enjoy extensive American support for their bombing campaign against northern Yemen.



According to Lieutenant Ian McConnaughey, a US Navy spokesman in Bahrain, there are now less than five people assigned full-time to the "Joint Combined Planning Cell," which was established to coordinate US support for the offensive.



At its peak, the US dedicated about 45 full-time staff members to the war who were deployed in Riyadh and elsewhere, McConnaughey added.



US support for the campaign includes limited intelligence sharing and logistics such as air refueling.



The Joint Combined Planning Cell (JCPC) established last year to coordinate US support was moved from Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, to Bahrain in June, officials told Reuters news agency.



"The shift does not diminish US commitment to supporting Saudi-led military operations.

The JCPC forward team that was in Saudi Arabia is now in Bahrain," Chris Sherwood, a Pentagon spokesman, told Reuters news agency.

US aerial tankers continue to refuel Saudi aircraft, he added.



The changes were unrelated to the growing criticism of the Saudi campaign, officials told Reuters, and instead stem from a lull in airstrikes.

Fighting in Yemen tapered off, but did not stop entirely, during United Nations-led peace talks.

Those talks collapsed earlier this month.



Leading rights advocacy groups such as Amnesty International and the Human Rights Watch (HRW) have repeatedly blasted the US for selling the illegal munitions to Saudi Arabia, urging Riyadh to stop using them as some of the bomblets fail to explode on impact and may go unnoticed for years before killing unsuspecting civilians.



However, the US has continued its unconditional support for the Saudi regime.

In November last year, Washington approved a $1.

29 billion rearming programme for Riyadh.



AFP: rockets fired by Yemeni rebels into a Saudi border city on Saturday killed a Saudi civilian and wounded six others including a Pakistani man, the Saudi civil defence agency said.



Quoted by Al-Ekhbariya state television, the agency the five other wounded in the city of Najran were all Yemeni citizens.



Video footage posted on social networks showed two blazing buildings in the city centre.



Cross-border attacks into Saudi Arabia have increased since a Saudi-led Arab coalition this month stepped up air strikes on insurgent targets inside Yemen in an attempt to shore up the beleaguered government.



Saturday's attack was the third this week.



On Friday, five foreign residents of Najran were wounded in a rocket strike just west of the city.



Seven civilians were killed on Tuesday when the city centre was shelled, with three victims said to be expats.



Tuesday's toll was the highest reported number of civilian casualties in Saudi Arabia for a single day since the Arab coalition intervened in Yemen in March last year against the Iran-backed Huthi rebels.



More than 100 civilians and soldiers have been killed in southern Saudi Arabia by retaliatory rocket strikes or skirmishes since the coalition began operations in support of President Abedrabbo Mansour Hadi's government.



Meanwhile, the rebel-controlled Saba news agency reported a wave of coalition raids inside Yemen on Saturday, including one that killed three civilians near the Huthi-held capital Sanaa.



Despite the reported attacks, Saba said that "thousands" of people demonstrated in Sanaa in support of the rebels and their allies, forces loyal to ousted president Ali Abdullah Saleh.

