http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/donald-trump/12135288/After-Donald-Trump-is-defeated-darkness-befalls-the-billionaires-campaign.html
153
15
Donald Trump has suffered his first electoral defeat, after a surge of "rebel voters" turned out in the Iowa caucus to back the candidate he had said, “nobody liked”.

A record number Iowans cast their votes in the first popular test of the presidential race, selecting Ted Cruz, the evangelical Texas senator to be champion for the "conservative grass roots".

"America needs new leadership,” Mr Cruz told The Telegraph. “Tonight is a victory for the grassroots.”

With his pitchfork populism energising an angry and disaffected electorate against the cadres of the Republican mainstream, Mr Trump had confidently told his supporters that he was going to win so much that they would be “sick of winning”.

It came as a grim surprise then, when historic numbers of voters turned out to deliver a victory to Mr Cruz giving the Texas senator 26 per cent of the vote.

In an even greater humiliation Mr Trump, with 99 per cent of the vote counted he was yesterday locked in a statistical tie with Marco Rubio, the establishment favourite, with both candidates receiving 23 per cent.

Mr Trump took to Twitter to sulk about the result yesterday: "I don't believe I have been given any credit by the voters for self-funding my campaign, the only one," he wrote. "I will keep doing, but not worth it!"

I don't believe I have been given any credit by the voters for self-funding my campaign, the only one. I will keep doing, but not worth it! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 2, 2016

At the Donald Trump caucus watch "party", where supporters had gathered to watch the results come in, the atmosphere was anything but festive.

Mr Trump's concession speech was perhaps the shortest public appearance he has given in his long career.

After quickly congratulating his opponents, Mr Trump moved on to detail the strength of his support in New Hampshire, the setting for the next primary race.

There were moments that were classic Trump: "Iowa we love you. You're very special," he told the crowd. "I think I might come back here and buy a farm."

But behind the pasted-on smile he had a deflated air. Mr Trump family too could barely conceal their disappointment.

As they stepped away from the podium in at the Sheraton hotel in Des Moines the faces of Eric and Don Jr his sons fell, darkening even further as the televisions around them blasted out the phrase 'this is Ted Cruz's night'.

At victory rally in a cavernous hall at the Iowa State Fairground across town, a jubilant Mr Cruz told the crowds: "God Bless the great state of Iowa. The great people of Iowa have spoken."

Looking to Heaven in front of his supporters he said: "To God be the Glory" and went on to quote the Bible and invoke the spirit of Margaret Thatcher.

Mr Trump had worked hard to erode support from Mr Cruz, the dismissing him at a recent debate with the classic soundbite: "Nobody likes you Ted".

The son of a preacher, and a hardline religious conservative Mr Cruz had long held the support of Iowa's powerful evangelical voting bloc.

Mr Trump, who is three times divorced and has a relatively socially liberal record, sought to steal away that support by finding God. He went to church, started carrying a bible and even enlisted the help of Jerry Falwell, the president of Liberty University, an evangelical institution that teaches against evolution.

Americans who had otherwise checked out of politics long ago have boosted Mr Trump’s national polls, where he is the Republican frontrunner.

An increased turnout then, pollsters said, should have been benefitted Mr Trump, as his newly energized voters turned out to vote.

A record 185,000 people turned out to vote, the largest in Iowa’s Republican caucus history, according to Edison Research.

This show of force, with a turnout that included some 46 per cent of people who had never previously engaged in American politics however, failed to yield the expected result.

The real-estate mogul yesterday travelled to New Hampshire, where he will face his next electoral test in a little over a week.

Mr Trump is the clear favourite in the state, polling a full 22 points ahead of his rival, Mr Cruz.

But after the polls that he so likes to cite at his rallies let him down in Iowa, many are now questioning the depth of that support.