http://www.iol.co.za/dailynews/news/on-a-highway-to-crime-1978582
154
15
That year highly skilled detectives and police reinforcements had to be deployed to quell a surge in violent crime, which claimed a number of lives and left many seriously injured.

Durban - A spike in crime in Durban’s Outer West suburbs since the start of the year has rattled residents, who have compared the increase to the bloody period in 2013.

Police confirmed on Monday they had stepped up patrols in the area.

“It’s the worst I’ve ever seen it,” a long-time resident said on Monday.

A private security company’s statistics show last week there was an almost 50% increase in incidents.

The statistics showed that from January 18 to 25, a total of 230 incidents were reported to the security company.

Compared with 155, the week before. Incidents of business burglaries and theft doubled in the two-week period.

Hijackings, the theft of vehicles and residential robberies were also on the rise.

The company responded to incidents in Gillitts, Hillcrest and Kloof last week, with the hardest hit area appearing to have been Kloof, where there were about 10 incidents of theft, burglary and trespassing.

Chairman of the Kloof Community Police Forum (CPF), Corné Broodryk, said his statistics showed crime in the area had doubled from December to January. “There has been a radical spike,” he said. Broodryk said 95% to 96% of crime was taking place between 3am and 6am. He said local CPFs were working with police – who had been “phenomenal” – to deal with the problem. Several operations had been carried out and teamwork was the key. On Sunday night, a 30-year-old security guard was shot in Abbrey Road, Kloof, as he arrived at a business burglary in progress. Intruders ambushed the guard and shot him in the leg before walking up to him to finish him off. His bulletproof vest saved him. While under fire Enforce Security guard Chicco Nxasana heard his attackers shouting to each other, “kill him, kill him”. The robbers had gained entry to the property through a surrounding fence and forced open a window. Enforce manager, Nikki Möhlman, said: “Chicco was shotin the leg and fell. While he was lying on the floor, face down, they came up to him and shot him in the back. Luckily his bulletproof vest prevented the bullet penetrating his body,” Möhlman said. Nxasana is recovering in hospital. He would receive counselling, said Möhlman. Applaud Enforce director, Derek Lategan, applauded Nxasana for his swift response, and said he was saddened by the shooting. Lategan said his investigators would follow up on leads to track down those responsible for the shooting. Lategan said business break-ins were rife throughout the greater Durban area because the demand for computers and electronic equipment had soared. Police spokesman, Major Thulani Zwane, said a case of attempted murder and armed robbery had been opened at the Pinetown police station. On Saturday night, Westville businessman, Piere van Schalkwyk, was left fighting for his life after a heavily armed gang stormed his home and shot him, apparently with a shotgun. Van Schalkwyk, 56, was expected to undergo a second operation today. He is in an induced coma and in critical condition, according to family spokesman, Hawie Du Preez. Last week, Gordon Donaldson died while trying to protect his wife, Debbie, from intruders in their Westville North home, in the early hours of the morning. Blue Security operations manager, Brian Jackson, detailed a number of Highway area home robberies last month, and advised residents to check the internal and external perimeters of their properties to make sure there was nothing intruders could use to gain entry. On January 22, a resident of Strathay Road, Westville, was robbed at gunpointin her home and tied with cable ties. The robbers had placed a concrete palisade against the fence and jumped into a property, said Jackson. Zwane told the Daily News today that police would look at official crime statistics to determine whether they needed to deploy specialised task teams to the Outer West. “For now police have stepped up their patrols and visibility in the area.” He said the SAPS assessed crime patterns daily and “intensify our patrols according to these reported crimes”. “If there is an increase in predawn robberies we will increase patrols. “We are working with the community policing structures. We encourage residents to report suspicious vehicles or people loitering around to the police immediately,” he said.