http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/africaandindianocean/libya/12137162/Peacekeepers-sent-to-Libya-would-become-a-target-for-Isil.html
154
15
The last time the Government ordered the military into action in Libya five years ago, the campaign was hardly a roaring success.

Operation Ellamy, as the MoD called it, may have succeeded in securing its principal aim, namely the overthrow of the Libyan dictator Muammar Gaddafi . But the absence of any serious post-conflict planning – sound familiar? – together with the reluctance of Britain and its allies to deploy anything resembling ground forces, meant that the country quickly descended into lawlessness. The result is that its 1,200-mile coastline today acts as a safe haven for Islamic State (Isil) fighters and myriad other Islamist-inspired miscreants.

"If Western politicians are finally waking up to the mess they have made of Libya, fixing it will not be easy"

Even Downing Street now concedes that its Libyan adventure fell well short of its stated objective of replacing Gaddafi’s authoritarian regime with a political system more akin to Western-style democracy.

Consequently there is a growing desire on both sides of the Atlantic to make amends by sending a multi-national military force – including an estimated 1,000 British troops – to support the Libyan government and destroy Isil’s fledgling bases, some of which are located just 200 miles from Europe’s southern shores.

But if Western politicians are finally waking up to the mess they have made of Libya, fixing it will not be easy. For a start, UN-sponsored attempts to forge a government of national unity have failed to persuade Libya’s warring factions to set aside their differences. While a deal has been struck that ostensibly unites the Libya Dawn Islamist alliance that controls the capital Tripoli with the internationally recognised government in Tobruk, it has yet to win the backing of leading figures in both camps.

It is hard to see how those European powers – such as Britain, Italy and France – that support some form of military intervention can do so without the backing of a functioning, unified Libyan government.

Isil, moreover, is making full use of the political stalemate to consolidate its grip over Islamist-controlled enclaves on the Libyan littoral, including Gaddafi’s birthplace Sirte, where the group has established Sharia courts that administer public beheadings and floggings for offences such as apostasy and witchcraft.

Nor are Isil’s intentions solely devoted to pursuing their radical religious agenda. The terrorist group also casts covetous eyes over the country’s extensive oil reserves, and has recently been targeting the Marsa al Brega refinery, the largest in North Africa.

While it is estimated there are currently only 3,000 Isil fighters in Libya, gaining access to lucrative oil revenues would definitely help to attract new recruits.

It is to prevent Isil deepening its foothold in Libya, as well as stemming the tide of migrants flooding southern Europe from North Africa, that serious consideration is being given in Europe and the US to establishing a 6,000-strong multi-national force that can both provide support for a Libyan national unity government while helping to eradicate the Isil threat.

Few who support the destruction of Isil and its warped ideology will argue against the principle of some form of intervention in Libya. Where the debate breaks down is at the practical level: to many, the idea of dispatching such a modest force to a country five times the size of France is an accident waiting to happen.

In his Telegraph interview last weekend, General Sir Nick Carter, the Army chief, admitted British troops sent to southern Afghanistan 10 years ago had little understanding of the challenges they faced.

John Reid, the then defence secretary, suggested they could fulfil their mission without firing a shot in anger, but they ended up in a desperate battle for survival.

And we are in danger of making the same mistake again if we approach the Libya challenge in the belief that Western peacekeepers, no matter how worthy their intentions might be, can be deployed without becoming a target for Isil and all the other jihadists who want to rid the Arab world of infidels.

"If action is to be taken in Libya, then it must be on the basis of a rational understanding of all the risks involved"

Certainly, before committing Western troops to Libya, politicians might like to reflect on the last occasion the US, Italy, France and Britain – the countries currently being mooted to form a stabilisation force for Libya – formed a similarly well-intentioned coalition. The multi-national force the four countries sent to Lebanon in the early Eighties was supposed to bring stability after the trauma of Israel’s 1982 invasion. It withdrew two years later after it had lost a total of 356 soldiers to a series of suicide attacks carried out by Islamist extremists.

There are many convincing arguments for military intervention in Libya, not least the need to prevent the country being overrun by Isil and becoming a safe haven for migrant smuggling gangs. But if action is to be taken, then it must be on the basis of a rational understanding of all the risks involved, rather than the wishful thinking of politicians with a guilty conscience.