https://www.yahoo.com/news/us-russia-quietly-reached-biggest-125951337.html
130
13
Relations between the US and Russia took a nosedive last Monday when Washington announced it would be suspending its negotiations with Moscow over its refusal to halt airstrikes on Syria's largest city, Aleppo.

That was only the start of a long week — one that saw the two countries entering their lowest point in relations since the end of the Cold War.

After reports emerged last Tuesday that the US was considering launching airstrikes on the forces of Syrian President Bashar Assad, Russia deployed surface-to-air missiles to its naval base in Tartus on Syria's western coast and suspended a nuclear and energy-related research pact with the US.

Then on Thursday, Russia's ministry of defense released a statement implying that US warplanes could be shot down without warning if they were to attack Syrian army positions. On Friday, US Secretary of State John Kerry responded by calling for a war-crimes investigation into Russia and Assad's scorched-earth offensive on Aleppo, which has killed hundreds of civilians since late last month.

The tumultuous week culminated with an unprecedented move: On Friday afternoon, the Department of Homeland Security and the Office of the Director of National Intelligence released a statement that for the first time publicly accused Russia of orchestrating a series of cyberattacks "intended to interfere with the US election process."

Hillary Clinton's presidential campaign has accused the Russian government of trying to tip the scales in favor of Republican nominee Donald Trump, who has been more sympathetic to Russia on the campaign trail.

Russia's deputy foreign minister, Sergei Ryabkov, condemned the accusation on Saturday, saying the current US administration was "not averse to using dirty tricks" to stir up "unprecedented anti-Russian hysteria."

View photos aleppo More

Later that day, Russia vetoed a UN Security Council resolution proposed by France and backed by the US to immediately halt the bombing in Aleppo, calling it a ploy to protect former Al Qaeda fighters operating in and around the city.

On Tuesday, Retired Lt. Gen. Yevgeny Buzhinsky told the BBC that "as far as Russia sees it, as Putin sees it, it is full-scale confrontation [with the US] on all fronts."



"It's extremely worrisome," retired Adm. James Stavridis, the dean of the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, told NBC News last week of the developments.

"The trend lines are very bad," he added. "We're not in a new Cold War, but we're edging close to one."

'Denial of reality isn't a useful policy option'

Experts are divided over what options Washington has now that its relationship with Moscow has reached its lowest point in decades — especially since it's unlikely that Russia, having successfully edged the US out of the Middle East and been credited with hacking into US political organizations, will ease up anytime soon.

Adding to the tension is NATO's buildup of combat battalions on Russia's doorstep in the Baltic countries and Poland. Russia has responded to the increased NATO presence by assembling troops and bases around Kaliningrad, which lies between Poland and Lithuania.

Among the highest-profile politicians arguing for a more robust response to Russian aggression is Trump's running mate, Mike Pence.