https://uk.news.yahoo.com/libyas-litmus-test-isil-143036528.html
154
15
While Syria and Iraq may have grabbed the headlines over the past few years, another country has been preying on the mind of some Western officials. In private, French, Italian and British and United States defence officials and diplomats have expressed their huge concern about Libya. Now that the likelihood of a military intervention has increased, 2016 may turn out to be the year of Libya.

Back in November 2013, former Libyan Prime Minister Ali Zeidan warned that the "international community cannot tolerate a state, in the middle of the Mediterranean that is a source of violence, terrorism and killings." Only a handful of nations listened to him.

In a May 2014 interview, I stated that the US, French and Algerian special forces had been allegedly conducting operations against al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM) since early that year.

In August 2014,

Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia

were on high alert

after an alleged US tip-off that Libyan

jihadists were planning to fly planes into buildings in these countries, in attacks similar to September 11.

Taking the threat seriously,

Morocco mobilised 70,000 soldiers

across the country and installed anti-aircraft batteries in Casablanca, Marrakesh and Tangier to shoot down any civilian plane that might have been taken by terrorists.

Algeria took similar measures.

In 2014, it had

reportedly conducted

operations for almost two months inside Libya involving up to 5,000 soldiers to root out jihadists.

As the joint Egypt-United Arab Emirates

air strikes in Libya

showed in 2014, regional powers are not going to sit idly by as dark clouds gather nearby, which could mean that Libya becomes the most dangerous place,

not only for North Africa but for Europe. It could even shift the focus from Iraq and Syria.

A new Syria?





Libya has the largest stockpile of loose weapons in the world - according to some reports, even larger than the British army's arsenal

- plus

about 4,000 surface-to-air missiles and 6,400 barrels of uranium concentrate powder, known as "yellowcake",

that could pass into the hands of terror groups such as Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), AQIM or al Mourabitoun that controls large swaths of territory in the south.

While the worsening situation in Libya failed to trigger an international military intervention in 2015, the emergence of ISIL in Libya appears to have tipped the balance.

While Italy, for example, has said that it will not attack ISIL in Syria, it has indicated that it might attack in Libya, which could mean air strikes as well as special forces on the ground. Italy has now taken the lead

over France when it comes to "fixing" Libya, which isn't surprising when one considers Italy's colonial past in Libya, its commercial interests there, and the fact that Rome has been repeatedly threatened by ISIL.

Another nation, Canada, is actually withdrawing its fighter jets from the coalition in Iraq and Syria, so that it is ready to

take part in a military operation in Libya

.

Britain is

actually preparing to send

up to 1,000 troops and special forces to Libya. This should not come as a surprise following the

June terror attack

in Tunisia, in which 30 British citizens died, because the attacker was an ISIL operative trained in Libya. At the time, David Cameron, the British prime minister

said

that he was ready to launch "immediate" air strikes against terrorists in Libya.

Russia could also get involved in Libya after General Khalifa Haftar reached out to them for support

.

The new Saudi-led coalition against ISIL could also see more action in

Libya than Syria or Iraq because of both Egypt and the UAE's interests there. Finally, both France and the US have recently been preparing public opinion for an imminent intervention.

Once initiated, the air strikes are likely to focus on ISIL's stronghold in Sirte and possibly the two large ISIL training camps in Hun, 200 kilometers south of Sirte.

The appeal for ISIL

ISIL is believed to have between 3,000 and 5,000 fighters in Libya, but that number could rise quickly for two reasons: Firstly, some of the fighters leaving Syria could join ISIL in Libya; and, secondly, new recruits are expected to swell their ranks.

OPINION: Libya, extremism and the consequences of collapse

Read More