http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/us-election/12135352/Four-things-we-learned-from-the-Iowa-Caucus-and-what-comes-next-for-Ted-Cruz.html
151
15
The Hawkeye State broke its own record on Monday evening when over 180,000 voters turned out for the Republican caucuses, eventually selecting Texan Senator Ted Cruz as the winner with 28 per cent of the vote .

On the eve of the caucus, almost everyone refrained from calling the outcome – including Trump himself. And it’s a good thing they did. While Cruz defied the top-tier polls and took the victory for himself, Trump came in second with 24 per cent, while Marco Rubio shocked and awed by managing to come in just behind Trump at 23 per cent – an outcome no poll predicted.

Some question why the Iowa caucuses are given so much weight . Voter turnout is relatively small, the state provides around 1 per cent of the nation's delegates, and most significantly, Iowa has failed to select the Republican nominee in recent years.

But Iowa paints a larger picture than just the votes that are cast – the results and the entrance polls help indicate the mood of the Republican base and illustrate what voters like (and what they'll tolerate)

Looking past the initial figures, the New York Times' summary of the 2016 entrance polls for the Republican caucuses has shed surprising light on why Cruz and Rubio surged, why Trump lost, and what candidates should consider leading up to the New Hampshire primaries, now just a week away.

Trump is not an evangelical Christian – and that’s a problem

An obvious statement, perhaps, but one that is crucial to understanding the results from last night. The turnout of evangelical voters was even higher than expected. 62 per cent of Republican voters identified as “white evangelical or white born-again Christians”. Of these voters, Cruz received 30 per cent, while Trump only received 21 per cent.

"I wouldn't want to get into it. Because to me, that's very personal. The Bible means a lot to me, but I don't want to get into specifics." Trump on his favourite Bible verse

This could mean good things for Trump in New Hampshire next week. Voters there like to push back on Iowa’s winner and choose a different candidate; nor are they as committed to an evangelical agenda as Iowan voters.

Still, the importance of a candidate’s religious commitment should never be overlooked in American politics. Cruz has proven himself to be an alternative anti-establishment candidate to Trump; voters looking for an outsider candidate may swing in favour of Cruz, as his commitment to religious philosophy offers an extra benefit that Trump cannot deliver.

Trump is not a conservative – and that’s a bigger problem

When asked what quality in a candidate mattered most to voters, Trump was overwhelmingly trusted to "tell it like it is" and to "bring needed change" to politics.

The problem, however, is that almost half of voters didn’t prioritize his outspoken, shake-and-stir behavior. Instead, 42 per cent cared most about a candidate sharing their values. Among these people, Cruz received 37 per cent of the support, Rubio 16 per cent, while Trump could only muster up 5 per cent.

It appears Iowans agreed with the National Review’s hitpiece published last week: that for all of Trump’s rhetoric and disguise, he is not a conservative, or a constitutionalist, or right-wing, or anything close to the tradition candidate the base is looking for.

Candidates have misgauged the immigration scare

Since Donald Trump’s entrance into the race, the Republican party has been dominated by conversations, debates, and sometimes offensive outbursts about immigration. Almost all candidates – including liberty-minded Senator Rand Paul and compassionate conservative Governor John Kasich – have tactically moved their immigration stance to the right, assuming that was the only way to win over the Republican base.

But when Iowans were asked what issue mattered most to them going into the caucus, only 14 per cent chose immigration. Of those 14 per cent an overwhelming 45 per cent supported Donald Trump, but it was voters who cared most about terrorism (25 per cent) and government spending (31 per cent) that preferred Cruz by a fairly substantial margin. Voters focused on jobs and the economy (27 per cent) threw their enthusiasm to Rubio.

Photo: AP

From these figures alone, we shouldn’t assume too much about the role immigration will continue to play in the primaries and debates. No doubt immigration will concern a higher percentage of voters in other States more affected by migration (especially along the border). However, it seems Republican candidates – most notably Trump – have badly mistaken a fear of extremism and terrorism for a fear of what is different.

Americans may be deeply concerned about terrorists coming into the country under the radar, but that does not directly translate to a bad sentiment towards all who would enter the country seeking new opportunities.

The votes tally up two winners

Senator Cruz’s victory will almost surely carry him to Super Tuesday, especially considering his decent poll number in the stops along the way. He has proven to his grassroots supporters that he can be successful without making compromises to satisfy the party’s elite – an important sentiment in this particular race, which has inspired so much frustration and fury with Republicans in Washington.

However, the real surprise of the evening was Senator Rubio’s explosive turnout. Having coasted along in the low-teens during months and months of polling, Rubio received 23 per cent of the vote, in a state where moderates tend to do badly in the caucus, at a time where the "establishment guy" is public enemy #1.

"The real loser of the night was Donald Trump, whose promise to win and win big collapsed in on him and his team"

Rubio's results reflect Senator John McCain's trail to the nomination, where he tied for third place in Iowa, which gave him a big boost heading in to New Hampshire, where he inevitably won the primary.

In a true twist of fates, the evening proved successful for the anti-establishment faction of the Republican party, who saw their Tea Party darling claim victory, without pandering to establishment manta. But it was also encouraging for the establishment faction, who can count on Senator Rubio to keep gaining traction, well above what has been projected.

The real loser of the night was Donald Trump, whose promise to win and win big collapsed in on him and his team. Don't discount Trump; he still leads the polls in New Hampshire, not to mention nationally. But these primaries are no longer a one-man show - last night transformed them into a three-man race.