http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/delhi-resident-docs-call-off-strike-as-govt-promises-more-security/1/581363.html
154
15
Even as cases of doctors being harassed by patients' relatives keep surfacing, there's some good news for the doctors of Maulana Azad Medical College (MAMC) and its associated Lok Nayak Hospital.

The Delhi government has promised to further tighten security on the hospital premises.

The government will deploy around four home guards in departments like gynaecology, paediatrics casualty, main casualty, burns and plastic department in different shifts. Also security alarms will be installed in all-casualty wards of the hospital. CCTV cameras will be put up in casualties and other sensitive areas of the hospital.

The move comes after a meeting between the striking doctors and Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday. After the meeting, the doctors of called off their strike.

"No punitive action should be taken against the resident doctors relating to the incident. The meeting concluded with the resolve to maintain uninterrupted hospital services and patient care in the hospitals, in the larger public interest," a document detailing minutes of the meeting, a copy of which is available with MAIL TODAY, said.

Resident doctors at MAMC and its associated Lok Nayak Hospital went on a strike after relatives of a woman who died during treatment during the early hours of Monday allegedly roughed up the hospital staff. After the meeting with the Delhi Health Minister, the doctors have resumed services.

The woman died during treatment in the gynaecology emergency ward following which her kin and attendants allegedly went on the rampage. The doctors, who had gone on strike last year over security in government hospitals, claimed that a majority of home guards deputed to hospitals then had been withdrawn.

"The strike has been called off," Dr Yogesh Sarin, medical superintendent of Lok Nayak hospital told Mail Today.

Even as the strike at Lok Nayak Hospital was called off, patients from various parts of the city continued to suffer due to the strike at MCD-run hospitals.

"The number of patients in the hospital were quite high as compared to other days due to the strike going on in other tertiary level hospitals," a senior doctor from Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) hospital said.

ALSO READ:

Government hospital staff to donate wheelchairs worth Rs 23,000

