http://www.whio.com/news/news/franklin-councilman-deployed-to-guam/np8dk/
154
15
Updated: Sunday, August 28, 2016 @ 10:09 PM

Published: Wednesday, January 20, 2016 @ 7:19 PM

By: Ed Richter - Staff Writer

Franklin City Councilman Brent Centers, a staff sergeant in the Ohio Air National Guard, has been deployed to Guam for the next three months.

Centers, 27, was elected to council in November and had participated in only one meeting prior to his deployment. He will miss about three council meetings, but said he expects to be back in time to participate in council’s April 30 work session to discuss its goals and projects for 2016.

“So far, it’s going well,” Centers said in an email to the Journal-News. “I’ll be back in time for the work session.”

Centers is among 200 airmen from the Ohio Air Guard who left last week deploying to Andersen Air Force Base in Guam as part of the 112th Expeditionary Fighter Squadron in support of the U.S. Pacific Command Theater Security Package.

The Franklin councilman is also an F-16 Fighting Falcon crew chief with the 112th Fighter Squadron of the 180th Tactical Fighter Wing that is based in Toledo. He said he has been deployed three other times during his Air Force service.

The Toledo unit will replace the Tulsa, Okla.-based 125th Fighter Squadron that was deployed in Japan. However, 12 of the Tulsa-based F-16s will remain in Guam for the 112th Fighter Squadron to operate, according to a news release from the Pacific Air Force Command.

Since 2004, the Air Force has routinely deployed fighter aircraft to the region to provide the U.S. Pacific Command and Pacific Air Forces with theater security packages. These three-to four-month deployments help maintain a deterrent against threats to security and stability in the Indo-Asia-Pacific region, according to the Air Force news release.

Since 2000, the U.S. has been building up military capability on Guam for power projection, according to the Military.com website.

F-16 and F-22 fighters have previously deployed to Guam as part of the theater security program, according to the Military.com website. Bombers that deploy to Guam are part of the continuous bomber presence program and have included the B-52, B-1 and B-2.