http://nation.com.pk/islamabad/28-Jan-2016/na-body-seeks-briefing-on-nap
154
15
ISLAMABAD - The National Assembly Standing Committee on Interior yesterday sought briefing from the interior minister over the progress made so far on the National Action Plan (NAP) after most of its members viewed that major points of the national anti-terrorism plan still remained unimplemented.A number of members of the NA committee that met at the NADRA Headquarters under the chair of Rana Shamim Ahmed Khan showed annoyance what they said poor implementation of the government over major points of NAP despite the passage of more than a year.Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif had announced 20-point NAP on Counter Terrorism in December 2014 after deadly terrorism attack on APS in Peshawar in which 140 people, mostly school children, were killed and many injured.The committee directed Ministry of Interior to brief it about the progress on NAP during the next meeting. The meeting also strongly condemned the recent terror attack on Bacha Khan University Charsada and offered fateha for the departed souls who lost their lives in the attack. The committee unanimously passed a resolution to show solitary with the victim families.PTI MNA Arif Ali in his remarks about NAP said: "Formation of counter terror narrative and strengthening of criminal justice system were major part of the anti-terror plan". But unfortunately despite the passage of over one year, there is neither counter terror narrative nor any efforts were being made for strengthening of criminal justice system, he added. He said that this was the duty of the interior ministry to draft an effective counter terror narrative with the help of religious scholars. Additional Secretary of the interior ministry Asghar Chaudhry informed the participants that an important security meeting was being held under the chair of interior minister today and important decisions would be taken on matters of overall security keeping in view the attacks on educational institutions. "Interior Minister Ch Nisar has issued strict directives to Islamabad police to beef up security across the federal capital and educational institutions," he said.The committee discussed the bills present on the agenda, including the Islamabad Rent Registration (Amendment) bill 2014 moved by MNAs Asad Umer and Abdul Manan. PTI MNA Dr Arif Alvi proposed formation of a mediation committee to sort out the rent issues in Islamabad comprising a representative of the ICCI and two other members each representing tenant and landlord. He also suggested public hearing of tenants and landlords.

The committee directed chief commissioner Islamabad to submit his suggestions about the bill during the next meeting to address issues of tenets and owners in commercial markets of Islamabad. It also directed the chief commissioner to advertise and seek suggestions from the stakeholders and the same should be placed before it.The meeting also discussed the Islamabad Capital Territory (ICT) Local Government (Amendment) Ordinance 2015 moved by the interior minister. The committee left the bill pending till next meeting. Majority of members expressed their reservations over the proposed three deputy mayors for Islamabad Metropolitan Corporation saying this would open up a new Pandora's box in the country. Chief Commissioner Islamabad told the committee that Speaker National Assembly and Leader of the Opposition in NA had made this proposal with censuses. The main reason behind the election of three deputy mayors instead of one is to assist mayor and to run the system in the absence of mayor, he said. The original bill contained only election of one deputy mayor.ENDs/