http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/2016-10/12/c_135749291.htm
150
15
Chief of staff of the French national navy Christophe Prazuck (C) and his Egyptian commander in chief of the navy armed forces Osama Mounir (R) pose onboard aboard of the BPC Anwar el Sadat military cruise ship following the flag raising ceremony handing over the assault ship to Egypt on September 16, 2016 in Saint-Nazaire, western France. (Xinhua/AFP Photo)

CAIRO, Oct. 12 (Xinhua) -- Egypt will host next week its first joint paratroopers' military exercise with Russia dubbed "Friendship Protectors 2016," the Egyptian military spokesman said Wednesday.

The joint exercise, which will be held from Oct. 15 to 26, includes exchange of training expertise in special forces tasks, carrying out light, medium and heavy dropping of paratroopers, equipments and vehicles of joint elements from both sides, military spokesman Mohamed Samir said in a statement.

He added that the upcoming Egyptian-Russian military exercise is part of the training plan of the Egyptian Armed Forces, noting that Egypt holds military exercises with more than 30 friendly states and carries out about 20 joint exercises per year.

Egypt's ties with Russia grow stronger since Egyptian President Abdel-Fattah al-Sisi came to office in mid-2014 despite last year's Russian plane crash in Egypt's Sinai that killed over 200, mostly Russians.

In May, Egypt approved the use of a 25 billion U.S. dollar loan from Russia in the construction of the first nuclear power plant in the most populous Arab country, according to official MENA news agency.

Egypt has recently voted for a Russian draft resolution at the UN Security Council over Syria, which is believed to have disturbed Egypt's biggest Gulf ally Saudi Arabia although Egypt voted for a rival Western draft resolution.

Egypt said it voted for both resolutions, which failed to pass at the international body, out of keenness on a relief for the Syrian people, particularly those in Aleppo, regardless of any political considerations.

"Egypt supports all efforts seeking to halt the tragedy of the Syrian people and so it voted for both resolutions based on their contents, not on political bids that have already become a barrier to the work of the council," said Ambassador Amr Aboul-Ata, Egypt's representative at the UN.