http://www.politico.com/story/2016/02/house-democrats-national-security-218411
153
15
California Rep. Adam Schiff says Democrats need to find a better way to project a message of strength. | AP Photo Democrats lag badly in chase for national security voters Party leaders scramble to strengthen their messaging on defense and terror ahead of the elections.

BALTIMORE — Threats from Islamic extremists have put national security at the forefront of the 2016 election — and that could be potentially devastating for House Democrats, a senior lawmaker has warned colleagues.

Rep. Steve Israel, the New York lawmaker charged with campaign messaging for House Democrats, told colleagues during a closed-door briefing last week that Democrats poll significantly behind Republicans on national security — by as much as 23 percentage points.

Story Continued Below

That poll analyzing the gap between Democrats and Republicans is from Gallup in 2014 — during the height of the Ebola scare — but Israel said during an interview here that he believes it would be equally bad for his party now, in the wake of the Paris and Southern California terrorist attacks.

A Pew Research poll from December found a similar gap, with 46 percent of voters saying Republicans were better prepared to tackle “terrorist threat at home,” while just 34 percent of poll respondents favored Democrats. That same poll found that 62 percent of respondents said they are very concerned about the rise of Islamic extremists.

And internal House Republican polling found that national security is the top concern for nearly 20 percent of voters.

“There is no question that we’ve got to address that issue,” said Israel, a former chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. “There is anxiety about a global threat across the board.”

It’s a troubling situation Democrats find themselves in just 10 months before the election. Democrats hold only 188 seats in the House — the deepest in the minority they’ve been in decades. Democrats, eyeing about a dozen swing seats, are hoping to make inroads in 2016. And the party’s leaders are publicly musing that a tumultuous Republican primary driven by Donald Trump and Sen. Ted Cruz could have major down-ticket effects and turn some red seats blue.

That’s got top Democratic officials zeroing in on national security messaging.

DCCC Chairman Ben Ray Luján said Democrats will need to play up the party’s national defense bona fides. Members will need to emphasize the security benefits of the Iran nuclear deal, which Democrats pushed through Congress, and the White House’s work to combat the Islamic State, he said.

California Rep. Adam Schiff, the top Democrat on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, said Democrats need to find a better way to project a message of strength.

“That gap has reopened, and that’s a challenge we have to meet because it very well might be the issues that voters go to the polls on,” Schiff said. “You have to communicate strength in how you communicate about the issue. You have to communicate that this is a cardinal issue for voters, for good reason.”

But Democrats will still have to grapple with President Barack Obama’s legacy on national security if the electorate focuses on ISIL, Iran and other global issues in the election. The White House has received heavy criticism from Republicans for not having a plan to combat ISIL, and a recent Gallup poll found that 55 percent of respondents are dissatisfied with how the federal government is handling security when it comes to terrorism.

Israel is beginning to formulate how Democrats can retool the debate on national security to their benefit.

In a detailed presentation to lawmakers on Thursday , Israel said he hopes to develop a “caucus consensus” on a message plan by July with a targeted rollout in August. It will focus on security — financial and national — and be centered on the premise that Democrats need to boost their standing with security-conscious voters.

“What we have to do is remind voters that it is the Republicans that wanted to shut down the Department of Homeland Security over Planned Parenthood and we were the party of national security that stopped that from happening,” Israel said. “We have to create that contrast. You have to remind people who brought up sequester, who brought us defense cuts.”

That message will hinge on the Department of Homeland Security funding fight and the Democratic drive to reverse deep cuts from the sequester but will also work to communicate with voters how Democrats could create a more secure environment generally. Israel said the security issue encompasses more than just terrorism and ISIL and extends to the fear that Americans aren’t secure in their lives because of turbulent economic markets domestically and internationally.

“This is going to be a security election, not just national security,” Israel said. “It’s going to be about paycheck security, it’s going to be about financial security and national security. We’re going to tie in all those security issues.”

John Bresnahan contributed to this report.