https://in.news.yahoo.com/whenthe-cat-away-micewill-play-000000614.html
154
15
As Delhi remained on high alert in wake of security threats in the first half of January, criminals made the most of it with over 1,600 vehicles stolen, over 461 house thefts &427 snatchings

WHILE terror threat to the Capital kept the Delhi Police on its toes during the first two weeks of January, local criminals roamed the streets freely.

Data shows that from January 1 to January 15, 2016, street crimes like snatching, motor vehicle theft and house theft became rampant. Police officials said up to 40 per cent personnel got deployed in Lutyens’ Delhi which forced districts to manage with few men and become the main reason for rise in street crime.

According to data provided by the Delhi Police, from 1st of January to 15th of January this year, Delhi saw 427 cases of snatching. The figure for the month before that i. e. from 1st of December to 15th of December, Delhi saw 394 cases of snatching. And, during the same period last year, i.e. from 1st January to 15th January, 2015, 348 cases of snatching were reported in the city. Same is the case with motor vehicle theft and house theft (see box). According to a DCP, after the attack on the Indian Air Force base in Pathankot, districts were asked to provide staff for the security of Republic Day preparations. So, districts had to manage with less staff. While malls and popular markets had heavy deployment of policemen, local criminals managed to strike even at these places. “Every police station, from the first week of January onwards, was forced to operate with 40 per cent less staff. Personnel from every police station got deployed at various locations in Lutyens’ Delhi. The rest of Delhi had fewer policemen to deal with local crime. This may be the main reason behind increase in street crimes,” a DCP told MAIL TODAY. Strategic deployment At the beginning of January this year, the top brass of Delhi police told their subordinates that policemen from local police stations will be deployed strategically so that khaki is visible on roads of Delhi, malls and markets. The main reason behind this was to instill fear among both criminals and terrorists. However, sources say, due to threat from various terror organisations this year, including the ISIS, the Lutyens’ zone saw unprecedented deployment of security staff including Delhi Police officials. This came at the cost of neglecting other areas. What is shocking is the fact that crime graph shot up in Lutyens’ zone as well. “This year, after the Pathankot attack, Delhi Police focused mostly on Lutyens’ zone. Also, there was a severe threat from the ISIS. Keeping Delhi terror free on Republic day was the priority of the Delhi police.” “During the first half of January, Delhi was not that keen to deal with local criminals as the national capital was facing a major threat from terrorist organisations,” a senior police official said. This year, before the Republic Day celebrations, security and investigative agencies arrested 18 suspected terrorists nationwide. Counter-terror raids across the Capital added to the panic. There were fears of Parislike attacks on metro cities like Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Kolkata. Terror suspects were detained in Mumbai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Meerut and Roorkee. A white Santro car, belonging to an Army doctor, went missing from south Delhi, triggering panic and raising concerns among the security agencies. Now, cops say apart from dealing with crime, their main job will be to manage pendency of cases. According to a senior police official, rising crime figures are giving a tough time to investigating officers due to shortage of staff. They say while they are registering cases, investigation has become a difficult task. "There are very few investigating officers in districts and most of the time they get busy with odd duties. Shortage of staff is damaging the quality of investigation,” he said.