http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/calais-jungle-battle-police-migrants-9111084
130
13
Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

French authorities are preparing to destroy the Jungle refugee camp, in what is sure to be a tense and chaotic operation.

It will begin on Monday morning, with thousands of police officers joined by riot control officers.

Their job is to "evacuate" the migrants who have made the camp their home - with at least 6,000 believed to be situated in the so-called Jungle.

Authorities expect violent protests and clashes however - so ahead of the operation on Monday here's everything you need to know.

What is the Calais Jungle camp?

Migrants have camped in Calais for years with hope of getting a better life in Britain.

Getty

Getty On the eve of the demolition, French officials handed out fliers in several languages notifying migrants of the camp's imminent closure and urging them to abandon their dreams of reaching Britain

Over the past 12 months the numbers of those attempting to cross the English Channel have increased, causing chaos and leading to the formation of the camp known as the Jungle.

Recently there have been incidents where migrants have stormed the Channel tunnel to become stowaways and lorry drivers have taken strike action for their own safety.

The Jungle has seen several incarnations since 1999, when migrants first began occupying land.

However its population has spiked dramatically following the crisis in Syria, alongside the rise of Islamic State which has seen a mass exodus from those hoping to escape violence and begin a new life.

Why do authorities wish to demolish it?

Bernard Cazeneuve, the French interior minister, said in September this year: "I want the closure of the camp as quickly as possible."

Getty

i-Images Picture Agency Police have admitted their job tomorrow will be a tough one

Since then, Monday's demolition began being planned.

In March this year about half of the camp was torn down as police tried to end violent attempts by those in the camp to board lorries heading towards Britain.

PA A view of he jungle migrant camp in Calais, France

Previously, Mr Cazeneuve said he hoped to dismantle the camp in stages - but tomorrow that plan goes out the window as authorities will try to take it down in one go.

How do police plan to demolish the camp and 'evacuate' 6,000 people?

Tomorrow police officers hope to dismantle the camp, and evacuate the estimated 6,000 people who live in the Jungle - although some estimates claim that up to 10,000 live there.

It won't be easy, however.

Getty

Getty French police forces stand guard by a fence near the Jungle migrant camp in Calais

Many of the refugees at the camp are desperate to get to Britain to claim asylum, meaning they will resist attempts to bus them to processing centres in other parts of France.

"It's a risky operation," admitted a spokesman for the Interior Ministry in Paris.

"But it's our duty to carry it out."

Are authorities expecting trouble?

There are planned demonstrations which have already sparked conflict with police officers ahead of the demolition.

Fabienne Buccio, the local Prefect, has also warned yesterday that political activists opposed to the destruction of the Jungle were already in town, including members of the British No Borders movement.

PA A generic view inside the warehouse on the edge of the jungle migrant camp in Calais, France, where migrants and refugees will be processed from Monday

"In total, there must be between 150 and 200 No Borders activists in the camp," said Ms Buccio. "We know that many of them arrived this weekend."

In preparation for trouble, she said that a decree had been issued "regulating access to the camp", and that troublemakers would be arrested immediately.

i-Images Picture Agency Authorities are concerned about violent clashes

Gilles Debove, a police union spokesman, said his colleagues "will have to be very vigilant" when facing up to the anarchists.

What are the migrants being told?

Letters giving formal notice of their eviction - and details of accommodation centres for people claiming asylum in France - have been distributed today.

Failure to leave the Jungle or to cooperate with the authorities will result in arrest and detention.

Getty Images

i-Images Picture Agency Officers admit the demolition is a 'risky operation'

The letter reads: "The government has announced the eviction of the Jungle will start on Monday October 24. They want to finish the eviction in five days but will carry on longer if needed.

"The government has made it clear that they will not tolerate people trying [to reach the UK] from northern France any more.

"The police are being very strict and arresting dozens of people every single night.

"If you stay in the Jungle, it is very possible that you will be arrested and detained."

i-Images Picture Agency

i-Images Picture Agency Tensions are high in the area

Migrants will be required to present themselves at a warehouse close to the Jungle where they choose between two regions in France where they will be transferred.

The letter reads: "On Monday, they will bring 60 buses, for 3,000 people.

Video loading Watch next Watch this video again Watch Next Click to play Tap to play The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

"On Tuesday, they will bring 45 buses, for 2,500 people. On Wednesday, they will be 40 buses, for 2,000 people. This will continue as long as needed."