http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/small-biz/startups/aequs-plans-to-enter-europe-with-sira-buy/articleshow/50813682.cms
153
15
BENGALURU: Aerospace components maker Aequs has acquired France-based Si-RA Group for an undisclosed amount, marking an entry into Europe a few months after it set up a base in North America . At the time of acquisition SiRA employed 300 people and had a revenue of 50 million."I have been talking to them for over four years for this acquisition. No company comes close to SiRA in terms of quality and experience," said Aravind Melligeri, CEO of Aequs. "We will have a revenue run rate of $100 million this March. We're beginning to sound like a startup now."Last year was a landmark year for Aequs. It became the first aerospace firm to mark its entry into North America with the acquisition of Texas-based T&K Machine. It also acquired Bengaluru-based Simulations Design in 2015.With this new acquisition, Aequs said it will be able to provide 600,000 euros worth of components to each Rafale aircraft, bring in new customers and also capabilities related to aerostructures, aero systems and engine components."This is a strategic step that will significantly enhance the future growth of the Si-RA operating units," said Alain Blevin, majority shareholder and president of SIRA Group, which was incepted as Risoud Precision in 1917.Aequs is primarily a mechanical services company specializing in precision machining, sheet metal fabrication, assembly, forging and special processing primarily for the aerospace industry. Its campus in Belagavi houses India's first integrated precision engineering ecosystem. Customers include Airbus , UTAS, Bosch, Eaton, Baker Hughes and Halliburton. Aequs also operates manufacturing facilities in the US and Europe."With this acquisition, Aequs becomes a key partner of Safran, providing us the possibility to have access to a global industrial footprint, a strong presence in India, and complementary technical capabilities across the value chain for mechanical parts," said Xavier Dessemond, purchasing vice-president for Safran.SA, a French aerospace component maker.