http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3426214/Three-men-sentenced-death-gang-raped-woman-20-slit-throat-dumped-body-pond.html
150
15
Three men were sentenced to death on Saturday by an Indian court for the gang-rape and murder of a student, in a case that sparked outrage over women's safety.

The court in Kolkata sentenced Saiful Ali, Ansar Ali and Amin Ali to the death penalty and a further three defendants, Sheikh Emanul Islam, Aminur Islam and Bhola Naskar, were given life sentences after being convicted of gang rape, criminal conspiracy and causing disappearance of evidence.

The 20-year-old woman was targeted as she walked home after an exam in 2013 in the village of Kamduni, in the eastern state of West Bengal.

The six defendants arriving at Kolkata court to be sentenced: top row, from left: Sheikh Emanul Islam, Ansar Ali and Amin Ali. Bottom row, from left: Bhola Naskar, Aminur Islam and Saiful Ali

In another case that has sparked outrage and protests over women's safety, Indian social activists, surrounded by police officers, shout slogans as they gather near the court on Friday

The woman, who cannot be named for legal reasons, was grabbed after getting off the bus before being dragged to a nearby abandoned farm.

The gang attacked her as she returned from the university to her home Kamduni on June 7, 2013.

She was found gagged and lying in a pool of blood in a field the next morning.

Evidence showed she had been repeatedly raped.

Two of the eight accused were acquitted for lack of evidence by the court.

'Justice has failed us as two of the accused were acquitted and three were awarded life sentences,' the victim's brother said.

Senior public prosecutor Anindya Raut said it was 'a gruesome crime, a rarest of the rarest case.'

The All India Progressive Women's Association (AIPWA) activists demand the death penalty for those men found guilty of rape and murder

Judge Sanchita Sarkar delivered the verdicts in a packed court which included the victim's family.

'I award the death sentence to three convicts on charges of gang-rape and murder of the student and life imprisonment to three others for gang rape, criminal conspiracy and causing disappearance of evidence,' Judge Sarkar said.

Scores of activists and people from the victim's home village joined together outside the court to protest against the state government of West Bengal, demanding the attackers receive the death penalty.

Extra police officers were deployed outside the court following a scuffle between police and protesters who tried to enter the court complex.

The attack triggered anger in West Bengal state and came just months after the fatal gang-rape of a student in Delhi in December 2012, which shone a global spotlight on violence against women in India.

Despite the 2012 incident leading to an overhaul of India's rape laws including speeding up of trials and tougher penalties for offenders, high numbers of assaults persist.