http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/2016-02/01/c_135064946.htm
154
15
ANKARA, Feb. 1 (Xinhua) -- As a recently reported Russian violation of Turkish airspace on Syrian border renewed tension between Ankara and Moscow ahead of peace talks on Syria in Geneva, Turkish analysts disagree whether it was intentional or accidental.

According to a Turkish foreign policy analyst, the Russian move was aimed to bolster Moscow's position ahead of United Nations-mediated Syrian peace talks this week.

"Russia signals to Turkey that it holds more sway on the fate of Syria than others by buzzing Turkish airspace with a combat tactical aircraft despite prior warning by Ankara," Mehmet Seyfettin Erol, professor of international relations at Gazi University, told Xinhua.

"This message was also communicated to NATO military alliance by extension because Turkey is a NATO member and its airspace is considered to be NATO space," he added.

Ankara said the alledged airspace violation occurred on Friday when a Russian SU-34 jet briefly made incursion into Turkish airpace, prompting condemnation by Turkey, the U.S. and NATO.

Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov rejected the Turkish allegation as "pure propaganda."

In Riyadh, visiting Turkish Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu said the violation was recorded by multiple monitoring stations including of Turkey and NATO.

According to Davutoglu, intensified Russian air bombing campaign in Syria is aimed to hold sway on talks on Syria as well as to weaken moderate opposition forces against Syrian government troops.

On Nov. 24, 2015, Turkey shot down a Russian jet on Syrian border that Ankara, saying it had violated its airspace. The move prompted Russia to adopt a series of diplomatic, economic and military measures against Turkey.

Uluc Ozulker, a former Turkish ambassador to the European Union, said he believed Friday's Russian incursion is more likely an unintentional act than a deliberate one.

"I do not see a possibility that Russia might have considered to create a new escalation with Turkey despite all developments," he said.

He added there is no benefit in trading harsh words that will re-ignite the crisis between Turkey and Russia.

However, Turkey's ruling elite see it differently.

Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan warned Moscow that there would be "consequences" if its jets continue to violate Turkish airspace.

"If Russia continues the violations of Turkey's sovereign rights, it will be forced to endure the consequences," he said.

Turkey's ruling Justice and Development Party spokesman Omer Celik described the alleged Russian violation of Turkish airspace as a "harassment" that threatens diplomacy and peace.

Turkey and Russia remain at odds over Syria policy.

Turkey supports rebels that fight for toppling Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's administration, while Russia sides with Damascus by providing diplomatic and military support for Assad.

Moscow carried out air force deployment to Syria to hammer down opposition forces as well as Islamic State (IS) militants.

Ankara accuses Russia of attacking moderate factions instead of IS, saying that a humanitarian crisis erupted following the Russian bombing.

Over the weekend, more than 1,600 Turkmens living in Syria reportedly fled to Turkey following Russian airstrikes on the border.

Turkey's main opposition party Republican Peoples' Party deputy Chairman Ozturk Yilmaz blamed the government for damaging ties with Russia that Turkey has built for the last 15 years because it has mismanaged the crisis with Moscow after downing the Russian jet in November.

He said the government also failed to insure the inclusion of Syrian Turkmens in Geneva talks.

Related:

Spotlight: NATO warns Russia over alleged violation of Turkish airspace

BRUSSELS/ISTANBUL, Jan. 31 (Xinhua) -- NATO has called on Russia to act responsibly after Turkey summoned Russian ambassador to protest what it claimed a violation of its airspace by a Russian warplane. Full story

NATO says Russia violates Turkish airspace, Russia rejects