http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/a-stage-neither-ready-nor-steady/article8132357.ece
154
15
The strength of the stage became a topic of much debate at the venue of the Chakyarkoothu competition at Cotton Hill School. The competition, which was supposed to start at 12 noon, was already delayed by more than four hours, as the Ottanthullal competition got off to a delayed start. Some of the Chakyarkoothu gurus and others objected to the competition being held on the stage, which they said did not have enough strength for Chakyarkoothu performances. The competition at last started after some reinforcement work on the stage at around 8 p.m.

Putharikandam Ground had an unexpected visitor among the audience while the Vrindavadyam competition was under way. The presence of violinist Balabhaskar created a sense of excitement among many who gathered at the main venue. The musician was part of the team that had won the competition in 1994 when he was a student of the Government Model Boys Higher Secondary School, Thycaud.

Late into the night, you bump into actor Shankar Ramakrishnan at the Putharikandam Ground, the main venue. “I was watching the Mohiniyattam competition and all the dancers looked pretty impressive,” he says. “I used to take part in various arts events in my student days and I am delighted that the State festival has come to my hometown. I am going to watch as much events as possible over the next few days.”

For someone who has struggled to find a seat despite possessing a media pass for light music contests, one is surprised to see a rather small crowd at the Cotton Hills School. “But this is a huge crowd compared to the one that came for this competition when it was held here in 2009,” says P.R. Vijayalakshmi, a retired Information Officer. “The girls have sung rather well, though.”

M.S. Akhila and Rakhi Chandran, Plus One students of Government Model Girls Higher Secondary School, Pattom, were two busy young girls at the Government College for Women auditorium. They were in charge of the doors near the stage, directed the audience to the rear entry and let in participants and those accompanying them to the stage. They are among the large number of volunteers of the National Service Scheme.

In a bid to ensure that the arts festival has zero pollution, the Suchitwa Mission has placed baskets made of bamboo reed at the venues. While the initiative was praiseworthy, one could find most baskets unfilled.

The organisers of the State School Arts Festival are leaving no stone unturned in making the venues plastic-free zones. Besides deploying volunteers from Student Police Cadets, Scouts and Guides, and National Cadet Corps at the venues to dissuade participants and visitors from using plastic items, regular announcements are made to spread the message. Volunteers wearing green overcoats were seen at the venues to check dumping of plastic.

(Contributed by

Sarath Babu George, R.K. Roshni, Rajesh B. Nair, S.R. Praveen and

P.K. Ajith Kumar)