http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/defence/government-forms-panel-to-review-security-at-defence-bases/articleshow/50667130.cms
153
15
NEW DELHI: In the wake of the recent attack on an IAF base at Pathankot, a committee is being set up by the government to review security at defence bases in the country based on the "risk factor".Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar while giving this information today said the government has also asked the officers commanding the bases to do a thorough security assessment and fix any loopholes.Parrikar, who was speaking to reporters during his visit to the NCC Republic Day Camp here, declined to give details about the likely composition of the committee but said a notification in this regard should be out in two to four days."A specific team is being made. Maybe in another week's time it will be active. It will visit (the bases) and look into priorities like the risk factor, sensitivity and assets. It will also talk to the local commanders," he said."As far as other defence installations are concerned, not just the Air Force, but all defence forces...whoever is in- charge. They have been told that they should make an assessment of every threat and take immediate measures to ensure that any weakness is blocked," he added.Parrikar said government's review of security measures will not put any roadblock to the ongoing probe by the NIA into the Pathankot attack. "Let them complete (their investigation) and we will do our analysis," he said.Asked to elaborate on his comments on 'losing patience' after Pathankot attack, the Defence Minister said, "Losing patience does not mean that you react instinctively. It means we are increasing our pro-active strength. It (the strategy) cannot be discussed in public."Condemning the terror attack on a university in Pakistan, he said violence on civilians can never be justified."Any attack or violence by civilians should be condemned. To kill a human being in a violent way can never be justified. It's a sad thing," he said.Parrikar also took a dig at Pakistan's withdrawal from Bahrain Air Show."As per my primary report, it (Light Combat Air Craft Tejas which is also participating in the show) is being appreciated by other countries who are interested. I also believe that other countries have withdrawn their participation," Parrikar said referring to Pakistan's withdrawal of JF-17 aircraft from the show.JF-17 is lightweight, single-engine, multi-role combat aircraft developed jointly by the Pakistan Aeronautical Complex and the Chengdu Aircraft Corporation of China.Parrikar said the government also plans to increase the strength of the NCC cadets and for this purpose, it will also take help from retired jawans."To take the strength of NCC from 15 lakh to 30 lakh would be difficult financially and logistically. For this, we are thinking of using retired army jawans and forming a capsule about one-fourth the cost for a year."This can be introduced in Standard VIII or IX where there is no NCC. Some important aspects of NCC can be taught to students (by the retired army jawans).