http://www.thestar.co.uk/news/crime/burglaries-in-sheffield-down-by-a-fifth-1-7686291
154
15
Burglaries in South Yorkshire fell by a fifth last year - with 2,871 offences recorded across the city.

South Yorkshire Police chiefs are putting the 20 per cent drop - from 3,614 burglaries in 2014 - down to continued ‘operations and enforcement’.

The figures include attempted, distraction and aggravated burglaries.

Chief Inspector Steve Whittaker, overseeing the police crackdown, said: “Any burglary is an extremely intrusive crime which can have a huge impact on victims.

“Often, items of hugely sentimental value are taken which can never be replaced, not to mention the psychological impacts a crime like this can have on a victim.

“I am pleased to see that the number of burglary dwelling offences has fallen and these figures represent the hard work, commitment and continued operations and enforcement that South Yorkshire Police staff and partners continue to carry out.

“I would like to thank all of those who have been involved and who have helped to drive down the number of offences recorded in the city, making Sheffield a safer place.

“I also hope that these figures send out a clear message to those who think about committing such crimes that we are dedicated to bringing those offenders to justice and will continue to work on operations and initiatives.”

He added: “Make sure your home is secure by replacing any locks if needed and ensure that your doors and windows are also secure.

“Be cautious when using social media. Don’t advertise that your home is empty by telling people that you are going away.”

Earlier this week police chiefs revealed that officers had stepped up night time patrols across Sheffield following a spate of burglaries, where thieves have been targeting high value cars, particularly Audis, parked outside properties.

Temporary Detective Inspector John Wheaton said: “If you have gates, make sure they are locked and look at ways you can improve the lighting on your drive if you don’t have a garage.

“Security lights can make a difference.

“And try to remember not to leave your keys or valuables on view.”

As well as additional patrols, officers have been monitoring offenders who are suspected of being involved in the raids.

“We can assure residents that we are committed to bringing those responsible for these intrusive crimes to justice,” added TDI Wheaton.