http://www.independent.ie/regionals/argus/lifestyle/dundalk-mens-shed-celebrate-five-years-35064447.html
150
15
The pioneering members of Dundalk Men's Shed celebrated five years since the group was set up at a special event in their Seatown base last week.

The pioneering members of Dundalk Men's Shed celebrated five years since the group was set up at a special event in their Seatown base last week.

The pioneering members of Dundalk Men's Shed celebrated five years since the group was set up at a special event in their Seatown base last week.

As one of the first of its kind in Europe, the Dundalk project has been a pilot of sorts for the 349 similar groups that have sprung up around Ireland, north and south, since then.

An extraordinary group which has continued to evolve as it grew from just a handful of founding members to over 90, the Men's Shed movement has, according to it's current Chairman, one simple goal 'to give us a reason to get out of bed in the morning.' Dubliner Brian Byrne has been living in Dundalk for many years, and like many men, found his life dramatically altered after retirement.

'I think many people find that once you leave work, you lose that regular contact with the friends you had there too.' 'Coming here to the shed gives us all a purpose and camaraderie, and for many a chance to develop skills that they never even knew they had.'

Self taught art, crafts and woodwork classes are a key part of the Shed movement, with members sharing their skills to encourage the talent of others. 'We have guys who had never painted, or sketched before, creating these fabulous pieces,' said Brian as he gave the Argus a tour of the studio last week.

He explained the hugely varied backgrounds of their membership, from professionals to tradesmen and taxi drivers to musicians. With a diverse range of talents to boot, the members have even formed their very own choir, which regularly performs in the Dundalk area.

The very next show is on Tuesday next, September 27th in the Marshes shopping centre, between 1 and 2p.m. The group even have a bagpipe player among their ranks, something which has proved a little difficult for the rest to pick up!

Lifetime piper Sean Brown admits 'it takes a long time to master' as the unique sound bellows out from their Seatown studio. The craft was, he explains, a family tradition, with him growing up watching his own father play. Over 60 years later Sean is sharing his passion for the pipes with Owen Hanratty at Dundalk Men's Shed, and the two are hoping to train a few more pipers in the group!

'We have guys who come here for different reasons, some just for a coffee and a bit of company,' said Brian. As they toasted their first five years with a barbeque on Thursday last', the 'shedders' as they have become affectionately known are rightly proud of the journey they have taken. But most of all, they celebrate the friendships.

'There are a lot of people on there own at home, and this is a place to come to,' said Brian..

Irish Independent