http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-3873644/A-massive-coronal-hole-sun-blasting-Earth-solar-storms-CRIPPLE-power-grids.html
152
15
Solar winds triggered a giant geomagnetic storm this week, raising fears that they could cripple power supplies.

The charged particles are coming from a coronal hole on the sun that is currently facing Earth.

If Earth's magnetic field was hit by charged particles the effects could also include radar and satellite interference, causing problems phone and internet networks and navigation services.

Power grid operators in the US were put on alert yesterday following concerning space weather forecasts. But the impact could be felt all over the world.

Scroll down for video

An image from today captured by NASA's Solar Dynamic Observatory shows the extent of the coronal hole (the dark areas on the sun)

WHAT IS SOLAR WIND? The sun and its atmosphere are made of plasma – a mix of positively and negatively charged particles which have separated at extremely high temperatures, that both carries and travels along magnetic field lines. Material from the corona streams out into space, filling the solar system with the solar wind. But scientists found that as the plasma travels further away from the sun, things change: The sun begins to lose magnetic control, forming the boundary that defines the outer corona – the very edge of the sun. If charged particles from solar winds hit Earth's magnectic field, this can cause problems for satellite and communication equipment.

Warnings were issued by the operator of the biggest power grid in the US, PJM Interconnection LLC, as well as by Midcontinent Independent System Operator, which manages high-voltage power lines across North America, reports Bloomberg.

These were the result of US Space Weather Prediction Center raising a 'serious' G3 level storm alert, though the alert was later downgraded to a less severe G2 storm.

'Voltage corrections may be required, false alarms triggered on some protection devices', said the U.S. Space Weather Prediction Center.

'Drag may increase on low-Earth-orbit satellites, and corrections may be needed for orientation problems'.

The 'moderate' G2 warning remains in affect today.

The solar storms could potentially affect telecommunications and power infrastructures all over the globe.

The UK's Met Office space weather forecast for today said: 'Elevated solar winds are expected throughout the period, with G1-G2 minor to moderate geomagnetic storms forecast.'

These were the result of U.S. Space Weather Prediction Center raising a 'serious' G3 level storm alert, though the alert was later downgraded to a less severe G2 storm

'Voltage corrections may be required, false alarms triggered on some protection devices', said the U.S. Space Weather Prediction Center following the storm warnings. The 'moderate' G2 warning remains in affect today.

As a result of the solar storm currently blasting Earth, parts of the world are expected to light up with a green and pink glow tonight.

The increase in solar activity means the chances of seeing the Northern Lights, or Aurora Borealis, in places like Canada, the northern US, Scandinavia, Scotland and even England are greater than usual.

The sky above Scotland was a plethora of colours as residents enjoyed the spectacular display last night.

The sky above Scotland was a plethora of colours last night as residents enjoyed another Northern Lights display. Photographer Ollie Taylor took stunning pictures of the phenomenon over the Mealt waterfall on Skye during an evening walk (pictured)

Last month, Nasa released an incredible video showing solar wind as it leaves the sun's surface - in stark contrast to the gusty and turbulent wind as it approaches Earth.

Ever since the 1950s discovery of the solar wind – the constant flow of charged particles from the sun – there's been a stark disconnect between this outpouring and the sun itself.

Near the sun where it originates, this wind is structured in distinct rays, much like a child's simple drawing of the sun, researchers found.

IMPACT OF SOLAR STORMS If Earth's magnetic field was hit by charged particles from a solar storm the effects could include: - Electric grid disruption - Radar interference - Solar cell damage - Telecommunication cable disruption - Pipeline corrosion - Loss of synchronisation of global internet - Airline passenger radiation

However, the details of the transition from defined rays in the corona, the sun's upper atmosphere, to the solar wind have been, until now, a mystery.

Using NASA's Solar Terrestrial Relations Observatory, or STEREO, imaged the edge of the sun for the first time.

'Now we have a global picture of solar wind evolution,' said Nicholeen Viall, a co-author of the paper and a solar scientist at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Maryland.

'This is really going to change our understanding of how the space environment develops.'

The research, published in The Astrophysical Journal, shows for the first time the details of the transition from defined rays in the corona, the sun's upper atmosphere, to the solar wind.

This incredible video shows the solar wind as it leave's the sun's surface - in stark contrast to the gusty and turbulent wind as it approaches Earth.

Conceptual animation (not to scale) showing the sun's corona and solar wind. Credits: NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center/Lisa Poje

Both near Earth and far past Pluto, our space environment is dominated by activity on the sun.

The sun and its atmosphere are made of plasma – a mix of positively and negatively charged particles which have separated at extremely high temperatures, that both carries and travels along magnetic field lines.

Material from the corona streams out into space, filling the solar system with the solar wind.

But scientists found that as the plasma travels further away from the sun, things change: The sun begins to lose magnetic control, forming the boundary that defines the outer corona – the very edge of the sun.

'As you go farther from the sun, the magnetic field strength drops faster than the pressure of the material does,' said Craig DeForest, lead author of the paper and a solar physicist at the Southwest Research Institute in Boulder, Colorado.

'Eventually, the material starts to act more like a gas, and less like a magnetically structured plasma.'

HOW THE SOLAR WIND IS FORMED Views of the solar wind from NASA's STEREO spacecraft (left) and after computer processing (right). Scientists used an algorithm to dim the appearance of bright stars and dust in images of the faint solar wind The breakup of the rays is similar to the way water shoots out from a squirt gun. First, the water is a smooth and unified stream, but it eventually breaks up into droplets, then smaller drops and eventually a fine, misty spray. The images in this study capture the plasma at the same stage where a stream of water gradually disintegrates into droplets.

Before this study, scientists hypothesized that magnetic forces were instrumental to shaping the edge of the corona.

However, the effect has never previously been observed because the images are so challenging to process.

Twenty million miles from the sun, the solar wind plasma is tenuous, and contains free-floating electrons which scatter sunlight.

This means they can be seen, but they are very faint and require careful processing.

The Earth protects itself from solar storms using an invisible shield known as the 'magnetosphere'.

But because Earth's magnetic poles are continually moving, the magnetosphere is weakening.

This means our planet is increasingly vulnerable to the potentially devastating effects of solar flares.

Now, Joseph Pelton, former dean of the International Space University, in Illkirch-Graffenstaden in France, has called for scientists to take action by creating a massive magnetic shield to protect Earth.

Solar storms are eruptions of magnetic energy from the solar surface. When this magnetic energy is suddenly released, this accelerates the hot gases near the surface, which can travel quickly towards the Earth

Solar storms are eruptions of magnetic energy from the sun's surface.

When this magnetic energy is suddenly released, this accelerates the hot gases near the surface, which can travel quickly towards the Earth.

A solar flare's 'killer electrons' can travel at up to several million miles per hour towards Earth.

Experts are now warning that humanity is not prepared to tackle a calamitous solar storm, and that the effects could be dire.

If this material collides with the Earth's magnetic field, it can affect many technologies, including satellites orbiting the planet, and radars.

In a paper published in ROOM, Dr Joseph Pelton, said: 'Over the course of the last half century, the world has finally begun to learn that a massive asteroid or comet strike could create havoc and ruin, on perhaps a planetary scale.

The Met Office now provides forecasts for space weather to help the public and industry prepare for solar storms that may pose a risk to infrastructure, as outlined in the graphic shown above

'But what we don't have is a global understanding that there is a much more likely danger that is increasing over time and is a very real cosmic danger that could knock out our electric power grids, kill key satellite systems for communications and navigation and defence.'

Dr Pelton also warned that a solar storm could knock out the time synchronisation of the global Internet.

This synchronisation is essential for the internet to continue to function as it does.

He added: 'A massive coronal mass ejection that brings millions of tons of ions travelling perhaps at two million kilometres an hour, could leave the world's economic systems and global infrastructure in shambles.'

A magnetic map of Earth shows that the magnetic field is only strengthening is small areas (shown in red), and the field is weakening in most areas (shown in blue)

However, Dr Pelton says that if scientists could create a mega-structure, with an huge electro-magnetic shield, it could protect the Earth from a massive solar storm.

The structure could also have other purposes, such as incorporating solar power satellites which could beam clean energy back to Earth.

Dr Pelton added: 'It is time for those leading our space agencies to consider what technologies they might conceive and implement to save Earth and the human race.

'To put not too fine a point on it, now is the time for them to start doing their truly core mission to save Earth.'



