http://en.farsnews.com/newstext.aspx?nn=13950703001196
150
15
World

US Deploying Forces in 7 Bases in Northern Syria

TEHRAN (FNA)- The US has deployed its special forces in at least 7 bases in Northern Syria which are located in Qamishli, Ain Issa, Kobane, Hasaka and Tal Abyadh regions.

The Pentagon admitted last week that it has stationed its forces in Northern Syria but didn’t reveal any details.

Based on information obtained by FNA from media outlets and field sources, the 7 bases in which the US forces are deployed are:

1.The US forces are seeking to turn Rmeilan airfield in Syria's Northern province of Hasakah into their new operations room and build helipads in there.

2. Mabrouka village in the Western parts of Qamishli where at least 45 US special army forces have been deployed.

3. The French Lafarge cement factory, which is located between Kobane and the town of Ain Issa in Jalabiya in Northeastern Syria. Informed sources have reported that the US has increased the number of forces deployed in the region, adding that another base is being built for training the militants and helicopter landing.

4. Ain Issa base near a town in Northern Syria, which is hosting over 100 US forces.

5. Kobane base in Northern Syria in which more than 300 US special forces have been deployed.

6. Tel Byder base in Hasaka province and in the Western parts of Qamishli which is equipped with helipad for military helicopters. The US trains militants in this base.

7. Tal Abyadh base which has been the scene of most US forces' moves in Syria. At least 200 US special forces, equipped with armored vehicles, have been deployed in the region and the US flags have been hoisted above certain government buildings in the area.

No official report has been released yet about the exact number of the US forces and weapons transferred to the abovementioned bases but field sources have reported observing armored vehicles, semi-heavy weapons, TOW missiles, thermal cameras, advanced wireless devices and night goggles in them.

Reports said last month that the US has set up a new military base in Hasaka, Northeastern Syria, under the pretext of demining the region, Kurdish sources said.

"The US has deployed tens of its marines in Mabrouka village in the Western parts of Hasaka province under the pretext of demining Ra's al-Ain city which is now under the control of Kurdish forces," sources told FNA.

According to the Kurdish sources, the US forces have set up their base in one of the buildings of Syria's power department in Mabrouka named Housh al-Kahroba.

The Lebanese al-Akhbar newspaper reported in December that the US experts are reconstructing and equipping a desolate airport special to carrying agricultural products in the region controlled by the Kurdish forces in Hasaka region to turn it into a military base.

A number of US experts entered the region to develop and prepare the runways with 2,500m length and 250m width to be used by fighter jets.

Abu Hajar airport which has not been used since 2010 is located in Tal al-Hajar region in the Eastern countryside of Hasaka which is controlled by the Kurdish People's Defense Units (YPG).

The airbase is located Southeast of the town of Rmeilan, which is one of the YPG’s main strongholds and “largest arms and ammunition depots”.

The US has not received or even asked for a permission from Damascus for reconstructing the airbase. The United States does not have a UN mandate for intervening in the Syria war.