http://www.thestar.com.my/metro/community/2016/01/21/sabah-tightens-security-with-rm3mil-burs-point-security-post-in-tawau/
154
15
KOTA KINABALU: A RM3mil Burs Point security post which was recently constructed in Tawau is expected to help improve security and prevent intrusion or smuggling activities in the district.

Sabah Police Commissioner Datuk Abdul Rashid Harun said the location of the post, which is situated near Sebatik and Nunukan Island of Indonesia, is strategic and allows security forces to better observe threats.

He said the location is considered strategic because it is the main maritime route between Malaysia and Indonesia in that region and close to many back trails.

“Apart from enhancing security, the post would serve as an observation post to prevent smuggling of goods or for transporting illegal immigrants,” he said after a handing over ceremony of the newly completed Burs Point security post at the Police Officers Mess in Kepayan, near here recently.

Comm Abdul Rashid said the post that had been operational since Dec 28 last year is manned by 13 General Operations Force (GOF) personnel and would ensure permanent presence of security forces.

“We are confident that providing observation at a security post is a better deterrent than having security personnel patrolling the back trails including rivers and settlements,” he added.

He added that the construction of the security post in Burs Point showed the government’s seriousness in safeguarding the sovereignty and security in Sabah and its east coasts as well as help boost public confidence in security forces.

Meanwhile, he said they would continue conducting talks and discussions with the Eastern Sabah Security Command (ESSCOM) and Marine Operations Force (MOF) on assets that should be placed at the post to prepare for any eventuality.

On whether there were serious threats in the area, he said there was none apart from smuggling at the moment but would not take the matter lightly.

Meanwhile, in light of the deadly bombing in Jakarta recently, he said the Royal Malaysian Police was on the watch for any threats or incidents in neighbouring countries that may also threaten the security in Malaysia.