http://nation.com.pk/islamabad/21-Jan-2016/security-on-high-alert-in-twin-cities
153
15
Islamabad/rawalpindi - The security was put on high alert in Islamabad and Rawalpindi yesterday after the Charsadda incident which created panic amongst the students and common citizens.

The local police, immediately after the incident, said that security at the Islamabad educational institutions has been increased.

The directions to this effect came from the head of the local police.

The SSP Islamabad visited different areas of the city to examine the security situation and the measures taken to further enhance it.

Surprise pickets were also set up at exit and entry points of the city, the police said.

Extra police personnel were deployed at the checkpoints and pickets to keep an eye on the suspects.

On the other hand, the Charsadda incident stirred a wave of panic amongst the resident of the capital, particularly the students.

Ahmad Khan, a class 6 student at the Islamabad Model College for Boys G-6/4 told The Nation that the college administration around 12:30pm announced on the sound system that the students would not go to the playground as the institution was facing a threat from the terrorists.

“This caused panic amongst the students… we were forced to stay inside the classrooms until the school was closed,” he said.

After the announcement, the students did not know what to do, Ahmad added.

The educational institutions in the city remained functional as routine with enhanced security measures.

Security in the federal capital, particularly around the educational institutions was already tightened in the light of intelligence reports that militant groups might strike as they did at Army Public School Peshawar in December 2014.

Meanwhile, Rawalpindi police tightened security around all the schools, colleges and universities in the city to avoid any untoward incident after the Charsadda carnage.

No educational institution was closed in the city after the attack.

However, small private schools running in villages and towns are vulnerable to terrorist attack as neither police nor the school managements have taken any step to improve security measurement to tackle any terror attack.

City Police Officer (CPO) Israr Ahmed Khan Abbasi, when contacted by this correspondent for his official version, said that police have tightened security of all the schools, colleges and universities including Fatima Jinnah Women University and Pir Meher Ali Shah-Arid Agriculture University Rawalpindi in the city.

He said that in cantonment and garrison areas, troops of Pakistan Army and Quick Response Force are assisting the police to protect the educational institutions and other sensitive installations.

Meanwhile, the police of Islamabad and Rawalpindi will jointly man the pickets at the entry and exit points of the twin cities so that the anti-social elements do not take advantage of any possible confusion arising out of the limits of the two territories, it has been learnt.

The decision has been taken on the directions of Interior Minister Ch Nisar Ali Khan, said sources in Islamabad police.

“A number of meetings have been held so far between the stakeholders to iron out modalities on the subject and the new picketing system will be in place by the next week,” they added.

According to the local police, the pickets to be jointly manned include IJP Road, Faizabad Chowk, T-Chowk Rawat, Golra Mor, Motorway Chowk, Sangjani Toll Plaza, Lehtrar Road — which links the twin cities with AJK — Rawal Dam Chowk and Bhara Kahu Toll Plaza.

The authorities believed that joint pickets would help the police of the twin cities swiftly chase criminals and vehicle-lifters.

Furthermore, they would be in a position to immediately resolve if any issue of limits of the twin cities arises, they said.

Meanwhile, Ramana police have held five outlaws involved in dacoities as well as incidents of street crime and also recovered weapons, veils and vehicle from their possession, a police spokesman said yesterday.

He said that SSP (Operations) Sajid Kiani assigned the task to SP (Saddar) Rizwan Gondal to arrest those involved in various crimes.

Following his directions, a special team was constituted.

On a tip off, this team raided in sector G-11/2 and nabbed a gang of dacoits, besides recovering weapons, ammunition, rented vehicle and veils from them.

They have been identified as Wazeer Abbass, Ali Raza, Malik Imran and Rana Waseem Abbass.

The accused Wazeer Abbass and Ali Raza have been found involved in several criminal activities and looting people after portraying themselves as policemen.

Six cases have been registered against them at Shalimar and Tarnol police stations and further investigation is underway.

