http://www.business-standard.com/article/pti-stories/gujarat-put-on-alert-after-punjab-terror-attack-116010200412_1.html
150
15
Gujarat put on alert after Punjab terror attack

Gujarat Police has issued an alert and cops have been asked to take necessary steps to keep a check on suspicious activities, in the wake of the terror attack at the an Air Force base in Punjab. Three security personnel including a Garud commando of the IAF were killed while four terrorists were eliminated. "In the wake of today's terror attack in Punjab, I have asked the police department and respective heads to remain alert. Based on some inputs available with us, I have ordered the police force to take all necessary steps and increase vigil across the state," Gujarat Director General of Police P C Thakur said. "Respective heads of police across Gujarat have been asked to beef up patrolling in their area and secure all the important public places," he said. Apart from conducting night patrolling and securing various public places, such as bus stops and railway stations, Thakur said, officials of border areas as well as coastal police have been asked to keep a close watch on ...

Police has issued an alert and cops have been asked to take necessary steps to keep a check on suspicious activities, in the wake of the terror attack at the an Air Force base in Punjab.



Three security personnel including a Garud commando of the were killed while four terrorists were eliminated.



"In the wake of today's terror attack in Punjab, I have asked the police department and respective heads to remain alert. Based on some inputs available with us, I have ordered the police force to take all necessary steps and increase vigil across the state," P C Thakur said.



"Respective heads of police across have been asked to beef up patrolling in their area and secure all the important public places," he said.



Apart from conducting night patrolling and securing various public places, such as bus stops and railway stations, Thakur said, officials of border areas as well as coastal police have been asked to keep a close watch on every movement.



Meanwhile, Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Border Range A K Jadeja said that after receiving the alert, security has been beefed up along the Indo-Pak border at Kutch and Banaskantha districts.



"We have been asked to remain alert after today's attack in Punjab. We are working closely with (BSF) and Army to keep a check on suspected persons as well as infiltrators in the border areas. We are also advised to pass on all the crucial information to security agencies," said Jadeja.



Likewise, security have been beefed up in coastal areas as shares the maritime boundary with Pakistan.



"Looking at the possibility of infiltration from sea route, Coastal police is taking all the necessary steps to secure the coast. We have also asked fishermen and boat owners to inform us if they come across any suspected activity in the sea or near coasts," DIG of Coastal Police S G Trivedi said.



In a pre-dawn attack, a group of heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists, suspected to belong to Jaish-e-Mohammed outfit, struck at the Air Force Base in Pathankot, leading to a fierce gunbattle.

Press Trust of India