http://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/fault-stars-ansel-elgort-lends-9020197
138
13
Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

Ansel Elgort as spoken out in defence of Shailene Woodley following her arrest.

The 24-year-old actress was arrested on Monday after she was caught trespassing on the construction site for the Dakota Access Pipeline during a peaceful protest against proposed plans to transport crude oil.

Now, her The Fault in Our Stars co-star Ansel has spoken out in her defence, urging his Twitter followers to read about the cause she was

fighting for.

Alongside a link to a news article about the pipeline plans, the 22-year-old actor wrote: "SHAI WAS ARRESTED TODAY for protesting the North Dakota Pipeline. Read about what she was protesting here (sic)".

Splash News Shailene Woodley's was charged with criminal trespass and engaging in a riot

Writer of 'The Fault in Our Stars' novel John Green also took to Twitter to show his support for the star, saying he "deeply admires" her.



He said: "@ShaileneWoodley walks the walk, and I deeply admire her determined and passionate activism. (sic)"

Meanwhile, Maggie Q posted a news article about the arrest with the caption: "You can arrest someone but you CANNOT silence them... (sic)".

The star, 24, was filmed on a Facebook Live stream as she was led away in handcuffs following a "peaceful protest" in Sioux County, North Dakota on Monday.

FOX Shailene Woodley as Hazel Grace Lancaster and Ansel Elgort as Augustus Waters

Handout Tris (Shailene Woodley), Four (Theo James, center), Caleb (Ansel Elgort, right)

According to TMZ , she was one of around 100 protesters who gathered on the construction site for the controversial pipeline project.

The site claims several others were arrested on site.

Facebook.com The star was led away

The Fault In Our Stars actress caught the entire moment on Facebook Live, and even narrated the tense moment as her camera pointed the wrong way.

"I don't know if you guys just heard me, but I was walking back to my RV, which is right there so that we can go back to camp peacefully and they grabbed me by my jacket and said that I was not allowed to continue," she reportedly told her viewers.

"And they had giant guns and batons and zip ties and they're not letting me go."

Facebook.com The star was led away

A cop then appeared to respond: "We can't talk right here, but you're going to be placed under arrest for criminal trespassing."

"Alright I'm being arrested," she added. "Because I was trespassing like everyone. As soon as you guys asked me to leave, I l left. She was down there, everybody was down there. I'm being arrested. I was down there with everybody else. I don't know what's going on? As soon as they came I left."

WENN.com The star spoke in a Facebook Live

Shailene in Insurgent

The pipeline will cross sacred Standing Rock Sioux land and burial grounds, and has sparked outrage among many.

A Federal appeals court rejected a request by Standing Rock Sioux Tribe for a permanent injunction to block the $3.7billion, 1,170-mile pipeline.

We have contacted the star's reps for comment.