http://www.hindustantimes.com/punjab/pathankot-terror-attack-security-heightened-in-doaba-cities/story-UtOjk6TWUK7JnlyfW11W4O.html
152
15
In the wake of the terror attack on Pathankot air base in which three security personnel and five terrorists were killed in an operation that started early Saturday, Punjab Police have beefed up security in all cities — especially Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and Phagwara — of the Doaba region, sealing all entry and sensitive points.

Police set up checkpoints at major chowks and intensified checking of vehicles. Every vehicle is being checked by police and suspect occupants are being questioned.

Security has been beefed up around the Adampur air force station, near Jalandhar, which is one of the vital defence installations in the northern region of the country.

The Jalandhar Cantonment has also been sealed and people were barred from entering the area without producing identity proofs.

In Hoshiarpur, security was tightened around the military base in Unchi Bassi in district’s Dasuya subdivision. The authorities were also warned by the intelligence agencies of the movement of suspicious elements in the area when the combat between the security forces and the militants was still on. Unchi Bassi is strategically located on National Highway-1A which connects Jammu and Kashmir with other parts of the country. It is barely 52 kilometres from Pathankot where terrorists struck on Saturday. Security was also beefed up around the military school which runs in the Unchi Bassi defence area.

Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhanpreet Kaur said police in the district have been put on high alert after the abduction of a police officer in Pathankot on Friday.

“We have sealed all the entry points to the neighbouring districts of Gurdaspur and Pathankot. High vigil has been sounded in Mukerian, Talwara, Dasuya and Hajipur. Special nakas have been put at vulnerable points throughout the district”, she informed.

Taking no chance, police personnel were seen questioning the occupants of an army vehicle at Jyoti Chowk in Jalandhar, keeping in mind the fact that terrorists have time and again been using army fatigues to carry out terror attacks.

In Jalandhar, police have installed barricades at sensitive spots such as Pathankot Bypass Chowk, PAP Chowk, Maqsudan Chowk, BMC Chowk, Rama Mandi Chowk, Jyoti Chowk among others.

In Kapurthala, police have installed nine nakas at all the entry points to the city. The police control room (PCR) and quick response teams were told to remain alert and keep a vigil in the city.

Phagwara police also conducted checking of vehicles on the National Highway-1 near Urban Estate and at Chaheru.

All station house officers (SHOs) have been directed to remain alert and conduct proper checking of vehicles under their jurisdictions. Police also conducted checking of buses and questioned suspect passengers.

Jalandhar additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP-1) J Elanchezhian said all police teams, including mobile units, PCR teams etc, have been deployed and intensive checking is being carried out.

“Soon after the Pathankot terror attack, we have enhanced security in the entire district. All SHOs and beat officers have been deployed at nakas,” Kapurthala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Rajinder Singh said.

Suspected Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorists from Pakistan carried out an attack on the Pathankot air force base.