http://indianexpress.com/article/cities/delhi/odd-even-policy-on-day-two-delhi-mostly-gets-even-but-with-fewer-police-civil-guards-on-roads/
151
15
Transport Minister Gopal Rai hailed the AAP government’s pollution-control plan as a ‘public, revolutionary movement’. (Express Photo by Prem Nath Pandey) Transport Minister Gopal Rai hailed the AAP government’s pollution-control plan as a ‘public, revolutionary movement’. (Express Photo by Prem Nath Pandey)

On day two of the odd-even formula, which saw even-numbered cars plying on roads, The Indian Express travelled 43 km on the Outer Ring Road and its connecting roads to check out the scenario.

While most of the cars were even-numbered, there was a visible drop in police and civil defence deployment on some stretches when compared to the first day.

Friday saw civil defence volunteers offering flowers to violators, but on Saturday they stood on the sides, holding placards on the odd-even rule.

The drive began from the ISBT flyover junction till Vikaspuri junction. This stretch, which usually experiences a high density of vehicles,

saw smooth traffic Saturday afternoon.

ISBT Kashmere Gate

The junction at one of the biggest bus terminals — ISBT Kashmere Gate — had just four police personnel manning the road at 3 pm and no civil defence personnel. It is one of the busiest in the city as commuters use this route to travel to Azadpur and Karnal.

“This is the usual number of policemen deployed. There are few violators here. However, cars coming from other states still don’t have a complete idea about the rule,” said a police officer at the spot. He added that he has not yet challaned anyone.

ISBT to Majnu ka Tila

The 5-km drive from ISBT to Majnu ka Tila took less than 15 minutes. During the drive, barely any violators were spotted. Traffic soon increased at the Dr K B Hedgewar Marg on the Outer Ring Road.

Mukarba Chowk to Wazirabad

The 8-km under-construction signal-free corridor saw slow-moving traffic at Arihant Marg. Traffic halted here for a few minutes due to a minor accident between two even-numbered sedans. It then became smoother on the stretch towards Haiderpur Metro station

junction.

“This stretch, which sees many vehicles coming from Punjab and Haryana, gets busier as many vehicles go to Burari and Bhalswa via this route. Traffic moves slowly here due to construction work. But there has been a visible change in traffic movement, both yesterday and today,” said Ramesh Yadav, who drives a CNG cab.

Rani Bagh police station

The only junction that saw civil guards deployed was at the Rani Bagh police station. The junction had three civil defence personnel. Scores of cars drove down this junction, mostly traveling to and from the busy Shiva Market in Pitampura.

Ring Road Mall

Meanwhile, the Ring Road mall saw heavy traffic outside the entry to it parking lot. Unlike Friday, no civil volunteers were deployed at entry to the mall. “The parking space is almost completely occupied. Some odd cars came in, mostly driven by women,” said a guard.