http://m.thehindu.com/news/national/pathankot-operation-ends-five-terrorists-killed/article8058791.ece
153
15
15-hour operation ends; police piece together events

The police are now piecing together the sequence of events from Me. Mr. Singh's abduction to his release and the attacks within hours after the earlier incident. Security deployed outside Pathankot Air Force Station. | ANI

The police are now piecing together the sequence of events. (In the picture) Security forcess personnel during their operation against the militants who attacked the Indian Air Force base in Pathankot | PTI

The 15-hour-long operation — a fierce gunbattle followed by intermittent exchange of fire — ended around 7 p.m. with security forces neutralising five Pakistani terrorists who attacked an Indian Air Force (IAF) base in the wee hours of Saturday.

Army teams leaving the Air Force area confirmed that all the terrorists were dead but as per latest reports the body of the fifth terrorist, who engaged the joint team of IAF, Army, NSG and SWAT commandoes of Punjab Police, had not been found till 7:45 p.m.

This, nearly two hours after locals heard the last gunshot and 20 minutes after the IAF choppers and aircraft monitoring the whole operation aerially had been grounded.

The Punjab Police also assisted the operation by securing the perimeter of the IAF area. Officers from the force said staff from all nine police stations of the districts were on high alert after Superintendent of Police (Gurudaspur) Salvinder Singh was abducted and his vehicle was used by the attackers dressed in military fatigues.

The police are now piecing together the sequence of events from Mr. Singh's abduction to his release and the attacks within hours after the earlier incident.

The base under attack is surrounded by residential areas, a busy market and the village among them, dense forests and a drain, said curious locals who had gathered outside the secure area since morning. It is suspected that the attackers used the forest side to enter the high security premise after abandoning the officer and his vehicle.

Mr. Shreyas, who stays in Dhaka Chowk adjacent to the spot of the terror attack, said he woke up to the sound of gunshots and reached the spot at 5 a.m. "All I could see was barricading and heavy presence of troops as firing continued," said Mr. Shreyas.

ASI Jagtar Singh from Punjab Police recounted: "I was awake at the staff quarters next to where Division Number 2 Police station is. I heard the gunshots and even before I could make any sense of it the wireless message was flashed from the Punjab Police Control Room."

He added that his senior officers too reached the spot but were not allowed to enter the premise by the IAF.