http://www.sfgate.com/world/article/Saudi-Arabia-executes-47-including-top-Shiite-6732885.php
152
15
Saudi execution of 47, including top Shiite cleric, ignites fury

RIYADH, Saudi Arabia — Protesters in Iran, angered by the execution by Saudi Arabia of a prominent Shiite cleric, broke into the Saudi embassy in Tehran early Sunday, setting fires and throwing papers from the roof, Iranian media reported.

The semiofficial ISNA news agency said the country’s top police official, Gen. Hossein Sajedinia, rushed to the scene and police worked to disperse the crowd outraged by the execution of Sheikh Nimr al-Nimr. Shiite leaders in Iran and other countries across the Middle East condemned Riyadh and warned of sectarian backlash.

Saudi Arabia’s execution Saturday of 47 prisoners, which also included al Qaeda detainees, threatened to further inflame Sunni-Shiite tensions in a struggle playing out between the Sunni kingdom and its foe Iran, a predominantly Shiite nation.

While Saudi Arabia insisted the executions were part of a justified war on terrorism, Iranian politicians warned that the Saudi monarchy would pay a heavy price for the death of al-Nimr.

The Iranian Foreign Ministry summoned the Saudi envoy in Tehran to protest, while the Saudi Foreign Ministry later said it had summoned Iran’s envoy to the kingdom to protest the critical Iranian reaction to the sheikh’s execution, saying it represented “blatant interference” in its internal affairs.

In Tehran, the crowd gathered outside the Saudi embassy, with some threwing stones and Molotov cocktails and triggering a fire in part of the building, Sajedinia told the Tasnim news agency.

“Some of them entered the embassy. Currently, individuals who entered the embassy have been transferred out (of the building). However, a large crowd is still there in front of the embassy,” Sajedinia said early Sunday.

Al-Nimr’s execution promises to open a rancorous new chapter in the ongoing Sunni-Shiite power struggle playing out across the Middle East, with Saudi Arabia and Iran as the primary antagonists. The two regional powers already back opposing sides in civil wars in Yemen and in Syria. Saudi Arabia was also a vocal critic of the recent Iranian agreement with world powers that ends international economic sanctions in exchange for limits on the Iranian nuclear program.

The cleric’s execution could also complicate Saudi Arabia’s relationship with the Shiite-led government in Iraq, where Prime Minister Haidar al-Abadi tweeted Saturday night that he was “shocked and saddened” by al-Nimr’s execution.

Hundreds of al-Nimr’s supporters also protested in his hometown of al-Qatif in eastern Saudi Arabia, in neighboring Bahrain where police fired tear gas and bird shot, and as far away as northern India.

Germany’s Foreign Ministry said the cleric’s execution “strengthens our existing concerns about the growing tensions and the deepening rifts in the region.”

State Department spokesman John Kirby said in a statement that the U.S. is “particularly concerned” that al-Nimr’s execution risked “exacerbating sectarian tensions at a time when they urgently need to be reduced.”

Saudi Arabia says all those executed were convicted of acts of terrorism. Al-Nimr had been charged in connection with violence that led to the deaths of several protesters and police officers.