http://news.gc.ca/web/article-en.do?nid=1121579
154
15
Canada’s Pledge to Peace Support Operations

London, UK

September 8, 2016

Please check against delivery

Defence Secretary Fallon, Defence ministerial colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen.

Thank you for this opportunity to address everyone today.

Last month, in an effort to better understand the ground truth of Africa’s many conflicts, I undertook a five-country visit on the continent.

The trip reinforced what all of us here know to be true: Conflicts today are more complex than ever before.

The actors are not always well defined, their goals are not always clear and their methods are far from conventional.

In short, we must elevate the conversation on peacekeeping. This is not peacekeeping of the past. Where peace does exist, it can often be tenuous.

Conflict resolution requires a creative, comprehensive approach. One that engages broadly, one that enlists the support of all organizations whose collective work will make peace endure.

Political, security, development, and humanitarian responses are all needed to establish peace. These solutions must be brought together under the umbrella of “peace operations”.

Canada is committed to being part of those solutions. Last month, our Government pledged up to 600 Canadian Armed Forces personnel to be available for possible deployment on United Nations peace support operations. Canada has also renewed the International Police Peacekeeping Program and committed to deploying up to 150 police officers over the coming years.

The women and men of our military are well trained and prepared to offer a range of capabilities.

Canada’s contribution to peace operations will have the protection of civilians as its principal objective. We will work to defend and protect the most helpless civilians in war torn areas, especially women and children, who bear the brunt of human rights abuses in conflicts.

We are determined to prevent sexual violence and protect other human rights abuses. We know that integrating gender perspectives in our mission planning and operations is a key to our success in these areas.

But we also know that real peace – lasting peace – requires more than a reactive approach. We must identify the factors that make protracted conflict possible. And we must eliminate them before the kindling is sparked.

We know that child soldiers, for instance, represent a near endless supply of fighters for radical groups bent on exploiting them.

In some African nations, the population under 25 years is nearly 60%. Not only are these youth the most vulnerable victims of conflict, they are the very fuel that powers the militias who enslave them.

The future stability of Africa hinges, in large part, on preventing the recruitment of children into armed conflict, and also on providing this new generation with hope and economic opportunity.



Canada’s contribution will not be only military in nature. We bring a ‘whole of government’ effort to the table. I work closely with my colleagues the Minister of Foreign Affairs Stephane Dion and International Development Minister Bibeau.

Together we are committed to the broad range of activities involved in peace support operations, including conflict prevention and mitigation, dialogue, and the empowerment of women in decision-making for peace and security.

A couple weeks ago, the Government of Canada also announced that we would devote $450 million dollars to our new Peace and Stabilization Operations Program.

We’re going to use this funding in a variety of ways.

Canada will support and enable Canadian diplomacy; especially by addressing the root causes of conflict. We will facilitate dialogue and conflict resolution, so that communities can recover their livelihoods and a sense of normalcy. We also want to make sure that women can participate meaningfully in peacebuilding, because we believe that this -- and all of the other activities I listed -- will lay the groundwork for stability in the troubled regions where we’ll operate.

We must stretch beyond traditional military roles and work closely with local authorities, NGOs, diplomats, and a range of international and regional partners, too.

Police officers must also be integrated in peace support missions, as will other trained professionals focussed on the prevention of sexual violence and human rights abuses. Each brings a specific skillset to our comprehensive response.

There is work to be done on so many fronts. But Canada has a rich history of leadership in supporting peace and can be a leader again.

Next year marks Canada’s 150th anniversary of Confederation. Throughout the year and across the country, we are planning activities to showcase and honour our history and what it means to be Canadian. In a most appropriate convergence of events, 2017 also marks the 60th anniversary of Lester B. Pearson’s Nobel Peace prize, for his role in resolving the Suez Crisis.

Supporting and encouraging peace is certainly part of what it means to be Canada. For that reason, I am pleased to announce today that Canada will host this Defence Ministerial conference next year. We truly look forward to continuing this important work with you.

Ladies and Gentlemen, the United Nations has welcomed Canada’s contribution and renewed engagement in peace operations.

Canada has a rich history of supporting and building peace around the world. We have seen the tremendous contributions that Canada and our allies can make, and we stand ready to take up this role again.

Thank you.