http://www.sfgate.com/world/article/News-of-the-Day-From-Around-the-World-9141188.php
130
13
News of the Day From Around the World

1 Kashmir violence: Authorities in Indian-controlled Kashmir on Saturday extended a strict curfew to most parts of the restive region as separatist leaders called for weekend protests against Indian rule. Despite the curfew, protests erupted at several places in Srinagar, and police and soldiers fired tear gas and shotgun pellets to stop rock-throwing protesters. At least 10 people, including six police officers, were injured across the region. Kashmir has been under a security lockdown and curfew since the killing of a popular rebel commander on July 8 sparked some of the largest protests against Indian rule in recent years.

2 Yemen fighting: An air strike Saturday on a school purportedly carried out by the Saudi-led coalition fighting Houthi rebels killed at least 10 children and wounded dozens more, Yemeni officials and aid workers said. The Islamic school said in a statement that the strike in Saada, deep in the Houthis’ northern heartland, was part of raids that have resumed against the rebels after peace talks collapsed earlier this month. Aid group Doctors Without Borders condemned the attack, saying that all ten killed and 28 injured were between eight and 15 years old.

3 Border reopened: Thousands of Venezuelans crossed into Colombia on Saturday after the two countries agreed to allow the gradual, controlled reopening of the border. Five pedestrian crossings opened in the first step in the eventual full restoration of border traffic. Presidents Nicolas Maduro of Venezuela and Juan Manuel Santos of Colombia agreed Thursday to the reopening after the Venezuelan government closed crossings to crack down on smuggling. Venezuelans have been desperate to cross into Colombia to buy basics as shortages worsen in their economically struggling country.

4 Train attack: Police in Switzerland say a man set a fire and stabbed people on a train in the country’s northeast Saturday, wounding six people as well as himself. The incident happened as the train neared the station in Salez. The 27-year-old Swiss man had at least one knife and poured out a flammable liquid, which caught fire, police said. The wounded included a 6-year-old child, three women ages 17, 34 and 43, and two men ages 17 and 50. Some of the injuries were said to be serious. Police are investigating the attacker’s motive.

5 Cairo protest: Egyptian Christians staged a rare protest in downtown Cairo on Saturday to demand the government uphold their rights, saying they are being treated as second-class citizens in the Muslim-majority country. Some three dozen demonstrators braved Egypt’s draconian protest ban to hold signs calling for their legal rights to be upheld. Christians make up ten percent of Egypt’s 91 million people. Last month, the leader of Egypt’s Coptic Christian church warned of increased attacks on Christians, saying national unity is being “defaced.”

6 Wall memorial: The mayor of Germany’s capital placed a wreath at the main Berlin Wall memorial on Saturday, marking the 55th anniversary of the start of construction of the Cold War structure that divided the city for nearly three decades. Mayor Michael Mueller also took part in a service at a chapel on the former “death strip” that divided the city. At the height of Cold War tensions, the East German regime started building the wall through Berlin on Aug. 13, 1961 and soon fortified its entire border. The wall stood until Nov. 9, 1989, and at least 138 people were killed along it during its 28 years.

Chronicle News Services