http://www.telegraph.co.uk/comment/letters/12077369/Letters-Aspiring-hospital-managers-should-spend-a-year-as-nursing-assistants.html
152
15
SIR – As I am about to retire from medical practice after 38 years, it is a time for a little reflection. When I was appointed a consultant in 1990, I had a secretary and a firm. I saw more patients than I do now and performed the same number of operations.

The hospital was run by a medical superintendent and matron, who had a small secretariat. They reported to a board of governors. The wards were run by a sister, assisted by staff nurses and a significant number of student nurses. The student nurses learnt on the job, and were paid to do so.

There was no chief executive, operating officer nor any of the plethora of managers who now spend most of their days in meetings. Unsurprisingly, their priorities often clash with those of clinicians.

Of course advances in medical care and the sheer size of the health service budget have required major changes in practice and administration, but these have led to a structural divide between those who provide the service and those who are supposed to facilitate it.

All aspiring administrators should spend at least one year as nursing assistants. Emptying bedpans should focus their minds. Such a move would also free trained nurses to concentrate on the technical side of their job.

David Nunn FRCS

West Malling, Kent





SIR – NHS staff shortages must in part be laid at the door of the Royal College of Nursing, which now requires all nurses to undergo degree courses.

The qualities of caring, compassion and competence are not dependent on a degree but are more likely to be developed through spending time with patients in a practical apprenticeship, nursing the sick on the wards and elsewhere in hospital.

Dr Michael D Hellier

Aldbourne, Wiltshire





SIR – Before going to medical school in the Sixties, I worked for six months as a ward orderly. I had standards of care imparted to me by ward sisters who had under their command adequate staffing at several levels of expertise. I polished floors, washed and fed patients and saw to their bedpans.

The RCN’s present attitude to training needs urgent review. The standards we all have a right to expect for both staff and patients should be restored.

Dr Peter Sander

Hythe, Kent





SIR – Last year the number of qualified nursing staff recruited by the NHS in England reached record levels.

It would be interesting to know how many NHS nurses are directly engaged in patient care and how many are wholly or mainly engaged in administration. The maximum salary for an NHS nurse directly engaged in patient care is £28,180; while the salaries for nurses mainly or wholly engaged in administration range from £34,876 to £98,453.

Max Gammon

London SE16





High-speed tunnels

Photo: HS2 LTD

SIR – Yet another senior civil engineer has told me that we could put HS2 into a tunnel for most of the route and it would cost not a penny more.

There is no hard rock to drill through. We have the tunnelling machinery that is being used to build Crossrail and the Thames Tideway Tunnel. We built a tunnel under the Channel. Trains have used tunnels for years. Why not tunnel through the Chilterns and avoid all arguments?

His Honour Lord Parmoor

High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire





EU logistics

SIR – Why do European bureaucrats still move operations from Brussels to Strasbourg for part of every year and what is the cost of doing this ?

The exercise seems an unnecessary extravagance and totally without logic. If the existing administration insists on persevering with this folly, I, for one, do not want to be in their club and will vote to leave it at the earliest chance.

Jeremy Taylor

London SW7





SIR – Much has been written about the hidden dangers of leaving the EU. What about the known dangers of staying in? More red tape, more duplication, more expense, more “qualified” accounts and more ill-thought out regulations, slipped into law without our knowledge, produced by faceless, remote bureaucrats.

And the question is not whether the EU is going to collapse, but when.

Philip Bonsall

Stockport





SIR – During a New Year celebration in Vietnam, I found myself as the sole British national on a European table of German, Slovaks, French and Latvians.

The one thing which bonded the gathering, in this foreign but amazing country, was a union the membership of which we British are questioning. Losing it makes no sense to me.

Harry Bunbury

London N1





Poor, clever pupils

SIR – One answer to James Kirkup’s plea for more “clever kids from poor homes ending up as doctors, judges and chief executives” would be to reintroduce the Assisted Places scheme so stupidly dropped by Tony Blair.

James Lonsdale

Lostock, Lancashire





Yielding to terror

SIR – The usually spectacular public New Year celebrations in Brussels were cancelled and those in Paris toned down, preventing thousands of citizens from marking the change of year in their customary fashion.

Bookings in those cities’ restaurants are down by more than 40 per cent, putting businesses and jobs in jeopardy and inhibiting the peaceful social pleasures of yet more people.

We may wonder who is actually winning the “war on terror”. At the moment, it looks very much like terror is achieving its objective, with some helpful collusion from those who should know better.

Graham Hoyle

Shipley, West Yorkshire





SIR – The media have played into the hands of terrorist groups by giving so much publicity to threats of attacks. Such groups must be delighted at the panic in Western countries.

Simon Lees-Milne

Sapey Common, Worcestershire





A city under threat from Isil’s cultural jihad

SIR – The ancient city of Leptis Magna is under threat from Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil), according to press reports.

The United Nations should deploy an armed force to defend this priceless Unesco heritage site. As the city lies on the coast of Libya, supporting such a force should be feasible.

Peter Boon

Didcot, Oxfordshire





If church hugs and kisses spread diseases...

SIR – I have just bought a pair of black leather gloves especially to wear at Mass. Thus, when everyone is shaking hands with their neighbours during the Sign of Peace I will be somewhat protected from picking up other churchgoers’ germs.

Ron Kirby

Dorchester, Dorset





SIR – As we are told that touching is the most effective way of passing on a virus, why do liturgical reformers think that the tactile Kiss of Peace is a proper way of fulfilling the commandment “Love thy neighbour”?

I prefer to steer clear of either receiving or passing on a nasty cold (or even life-threatening influenza), and just give a little wave. But this prompts unfriendly glares, so how can I preserve my health and still avoid being thought lacking in Christian love?

Francis Bown

London E3





SIR – One answer to the problems generated by the Sign of the Peace in church services would be to have “hug free” zones.

J D Price

Sheffield





SIR – Brought up with the Book of Common Prayer, I find shaking hands or cuddling strangers the last straw. If obliged to attend a service including this business I always ensure I wear lace-up shoes. I can then sit in the pew and re-tie my laces while everybody else is being anything but peaceful.

Jeremy M J Havard

London SW3





SIR – You need not hug at the Peace – a handshake is enough. That simple act, with a smile and “Peace be with you”, may be the only physical contact that some lonely churchgoer has all week.

Marcia Williams

St Keverne, Cornwall





SIR – The Roman rite makes optional the Sign of Peace. The declaration by the priest, “The peace of the Lord be with you always,” with the response “And with your spirit”, transcends mere social interaction. It is a peace that “the world cannot give”.

Peace is about a change of heart not posture. Actions don’t always speak louder than words spoken. Words have power.

Rev Dr Gareth Jones

Co-ordinating Chaplain

Cardiff University





Wool power

SIR – Before Sandy Pratt (as a Freeman) drives his sheep over London Bridge, he should check their emission levels.

Mike Bridgeman

Devizes, Wiltshire





The hardest word

SIR – Mark Carr wonders why there is no hand signal for “sorry”.

I believe the generally accepted signal is to form a gun shape with the hand, point the two-finger “barrel” to one’s own temple and pull the “trigger”.

Paul Billett

Biddlestone, Northumberland





SIR – Surely the correct sign should a hand laid palm upwards in supplication with the wrist bent backwards, thereby exposing it to an imaginary “slap on the wrist”.

A H W Izod

Edenbridge, Kent





SIR – A raised hand, palm outwards, accompanying the mouthed apology, is a recognised gesture of repentance.

Apart from that, I suggest cyclists keep both hands on the handlebars and eyes and ears on fellow road users. That way, apologies and gestures of any kind will not be needed.

Jennifer Edwards

Sidcup, Kent





SIR – There is a word for “sorry” in British Sign Language. The flat hand rubs in a circular motion on the chest, with a sorrowful facial expression; or, as an alternative within the system, a closed fist rubs in circular movements on the chest with a sorrowful facial expression. The little finger may be extended.

The facial expression is very important.

Rosie Harden-Vane

Holywell, Northumberland





Pale fire

SIR – I am sure that London beat the rest of the world when it came to the money, time and number of fireworks spent in the New Year celebrations, but I found it lacking in colour. Bring back the red, green and gold fireworks.

Enid Ottway

Beeston, Nottinghamshire





Knowing when to stop

SIR – On which day in January does one stop wishing people a Happy New Year?

Roland Blankenstein

Hope Valley, Derbyshire