http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3832127/Mount-Druitt-mother-reveals-anguish-boy-14-killed-joyriding-motorcycle-police-chased-him.html
130
13
A 14-year-old boy who ploughed into a ute while he looked over his shoulder to see if a police car was pursing him had been warned not to ride the motorcycle in the hours before his death.

Corey Kramer was not wearing a helmet when he and his 12-year-old passenger, Jason, had a high-speed collision with a stationary utility truck while riding an unregistered mini-bike in Mount Druitt, a suburb in Sydney's west.

Witnesses said the Chiefly College schoolboy was looking over his shoulder at a police car captured on CCTV travelling around 20 seconds behind him when the fatal collision occurred just after 11am on Monday.

Scroll down for video

Corey Kramer (pictured) was warned not to ride an unregistered trail bike hours before he was killed instantly when he ploughed into a ute while checking if a police car was chasing him

Mr Kramer was killed instantly while the 12-year-old passenger riding on the back of the mini-bike (pictured) was left with serious injuries

Mr Kramer sustained serious injuries and died instantly while his friend was rushed to the Children's Hospital in Westmead in a serious but stable condition.

His mother, Mary-Jane Hodder, said her son had been in trouble with police for riding without a licence and helmet before.

She believes he would have likely tried to outrun officers fearing he would get in trouble for breaking the law again.

'He knew he was going to be in trouble and that's why he didn't stop,' she told Nine News when she returned to the scene of his death.

Mary-Jane Hodder (pictured) said her son had been in trouble with police for riding without a licence and helmet before

She believes Mr Kramer (pictured) would have likely tried to outrun officers fearing he would get in trouble for breaking the law again

Ms Hodder said she warned her son not to ride the trail bike over and over again, even once only hours before the joyride that claimed his life.

'The last thing I said to Corey was 'lock the house and don't ride that motorbike because you're going to get hurt - it's going to kill you' and eventually it has,' she said.

The grieving mother said she was angry at her son - a twin - for not listening to her and devastated that she would never see him again.

'If he would have listened he would have still be here and I would have had my little boy,' she told Nine News.

She was seen kneeling next to the spot the collision took place, pointing out a smearing of his blood on the path.

Ms Hodder (middle) said she warned her son (right) not to ride the trail bike over and over again, even once only hours before the joyride that claimed his life

The grieving mother was seen kneeling next to the spot the collision took place (pictured), pointing out a smearing of his blood on the path

Jason, the 12-year-old boy balancing on the back of the unregistered trail bike, sustained serious leg and head injuries.

His friends said the young boy is awake and recovering in hospital, as others pay their respects to their fallen friend on social media.

Mr Kramer has been remembered as a bright and loyal boy who was a riding enthusiast.

'You passed doing something you loved, but unfortunately way too soon,' one friend wrote.

'I can't believe this has happened to such a young and bright little guy, wrote another.

Jason (right), the 12-year-old boy balancing on the back of the unregistered trail bike, sustained serious leg and head injuries while Mr Kramer (left) was killed instantly

Jason was rushed to The Children's Hospital at Westmead where he is in a serious condition

Many shared photographs of Mr Kramer riding (left) or smiling for a selfie with the Snapchat 'dog filter' (right)

Many shared photographs of Mr Kramer riding or smiling for a selfie with the Snapchat 'dog filter'. Others uploaded images of flowers laid in his honour.

Police have launched a critical investigation into the accident and said they will be assessing 'the circumstances of the police engagement with the young boys'.

CCTV footage shows a police car travelling around 20 seconds behind the boys but the vehicles sirens or flashing lights were not in operation.

CCTV shows the two boys riding on the mini-bike on Kurrajong Avenue in Mount Druitt

A report written by police after the accident stated the boys were sighted by officers just after 11am.

They have called for witnesses - including two nearby pedestrians and a passing Toyota Celica - to come forward with any information that could help with the investigation.

The driver of the stationary ute was not injured in the accident, but was taken to hospital for mandatory drug and alcohol testing immediately after.

Witness Peter Allen Shields said the driver appeared stunned and shaken.

'He didn't see it coming,' he told Nine News.