http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/657528/exploit-migrant-chaos-EXCUSE-EU-Army-Brexit
150
15
GETTY The stand-alone military which has long been a cherished goal of Brussels bureaucrats

Central and Eastern European countries are pushing controversial plans to bring about the stand-alone military which has long been a cherished goal of Brussels bureaucrats.



They are citing the continent's growing refugee crisis as the perfect excuse to execute the unprecedented military operation, which would comprise of a "civil-police-military mission" to kick out illegal immigrants.

But critics have dismissed the idea for a “bridging mission” using a joint military force along the EU border as "an excuse" to rush in an EU Army in through the back door. They added that once such a force is established, there is a possibility it would never be disbanded.



Austria and its Balkans neighbours are calling for the creation of an EU military force, which would be deployed to Europe's external borders to help kick out migrants.

GETTY Austria and its Balkans neighbours are calling for the creation of an EU military force

They have proposed setting up a "bridging mission" that would help stretched EU border agency force Frontex process and deport migrants arriving in Greece from Turkey, to last for at least two months.



Austria’s defence minister Hans Peter Doskozil today warned the EU needed an auxiliary force to put an end to the growing crisis.



Mr Doskozil explained the EU troops would register asylum seekers in Greece or send them back because the EU's civilian border agency is working "too slow".

GETTY EU countries will let in one Syrian direct from camps in Turkey in return for every Syrian returned

He added that the "civil-police-military mission should be deployed where necessary" to secure the EU's borders and deport illegal migrants.



Austria alongside EU members Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Croatia will now send a joint letter detailing the proposal to EU foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini ahead of a crunch meeting about the migrant crisis on April 19.

GETTY EU troops would register asylum seekers in Greece or send them back

Last month Austria took the lead shutting down borders across the Balkans in a move that has left stranded migrants stuck in Greece.



Vienna fears new routes could now develop through Bulgaria or Albania, whilst Mediterranean crossings to Italy from Libya will resume in the spring and summer when waters are calmer.



If the plan is put into action it would be the first ever time that the EU has deployed its own forces within the 28-nation bloc.



The latest remarks adds to a growing number of voices calling for the EU to dispatch troops to Greece to combat the spiralling migrant crisis.

Mr Doskozil raged: "In the past Frontex was responsible for securing the EU's external borders but Frontex is too slow because of the way it operates.



"Therefore we suggest finding joint solutions in cooperation with ministries of foreign affairs and internal affairs."



An Austrian government spokesman added: "It would be an EU military mission to implement the decisions of the European Council quickly.



"Frontex must hire 4,000 staff. One can imagine it will take a while before Frontex has that many staff.



"The minister is therefore saying 'Why don't we deploy the military to bridge the gap until Frontex is operational?'

Migrant Crisis: Mass exodus from the migrant camp continues Tue, October 25, 2016 Hundreds of migrants are continuing to arrive in Europe as they flee the scenes of chaos and brutality of the Islamic State in the Middle East. Play slideshow 1 of 224

But, critics on social media attacked the proposed military force as "an excuse" and "manipulative of a crisis".



They described the sight of troops bearing the EU ensign patrolling Greek soil as "the end of national sovereignty".



Others said the proposal served as a warning about the consequences of staying with Brussels ahead of the EU referendum.



The troops would help enforce the new EU-Turkey plan which is supposed to begin on April 4.