http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/chennai/a-bold-friendly-and-socially-conscious-officer/article8421733.ece
154
15
Family of CRPF sub-inspector D. Vijayaraj at his home in Ambattur. —photo: M. Vedhan

CRPF sub-inspector D. Vijayaraj, who died in Chhattisgarh, remembered

On Wednesday evening, 15-year-old Visha tried calling her father D. Vijayaraj on his phone many a time, but there was no response. She was not aware that her father was among the seven Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel who had been killed in a landmine explosion triggered by Maoists in Chhattisgarh a few hours ago.

Only around 6.45 p.m. did she and her mother Sharmila (43) learn about the incident.

“A CRPF officer called me up and passed on the message. I then conveyed it to his family,” said Vijayaraj’s elder brother D. Mohanraj, an employee of New India Assurance.

Soon, the news spread in and around Damodaran Street, Varadarajapuram, Ambattur, where Vijayaraj’s family lives.

On Thursday morning, the road adjacent to the Ambattur railway station that leads to his house was dotted with banners carrying the officer’s picture. A few CRPF personnel were around to help the family.

“He was a bold and friendly person and used to do a lot of social work whenever he was in Chennai. He would ensure that the street was clean and also helped the sanitary workers by purchasing shoes and food for them,” said D. Prithviraj, another brother.

Vijayaraj joined the CRPF in 1991 as a constable and was recently promoted as sub-inspector, wireless communications.

“He had worked in Warangal, Punjab, Srinagar and Jharkhand. He came to Chennai in February to spend some time with his family before taking up his new post in Chhattisgarh. He left on March 15,” he adds.

He used to call his sisters and brothers every day.

“He missed us all and used to enquire about our welfare every day. He called me two days ago and said that he wanted to send pictures of him in his new uniform after he was promoted to the rank of sub-inspector,” says Prithviraj.

The family will now miss his resounding voice — accustomed to speaking on the wireless set, he had started speaking in that manner.

“He was an ambitious person and wanted to reach higher ranks. He was very quick in whatever he did and his death also came quick,” added Mohanraj.

The last rites will be held on Friday noon.

CM offers condolences

Chief Minister Jayalalithaa on Thursday condoled the death of Vijayaraj.

He would ensure that the street was clean and buy shoes and food for sanitary workers