http://news.yahoo.com/top-asian-news-4-05-m-gmt-040521738.html
150
15
KOLKATA, India (AP) — Indian police are investigating possible murder charges against 10 construction company employees who have been either arrested or detained in connection with the collapse of an unfinished overpass in Kolkata that killed at least 24 people, officials said Saturday. Rescuers continued clearing rubble from the scene of Thursday's accident. Some 67 people have been pulled out alive, but rescuers doubted more survivors would be found. "There is no possibility of finding any person alive," S.S. Guleria, deputy inspector general of the India's National Disaster Response Force said Friday. Three arrested employees of Hyderabad-based IVRCL Infrastructure Co. were to appear Saturday in court where arguments for formal charges would be heard, a police officer said on condition of anonymity as he was not authorized to talk to reporters.

HANOI, Vietnam (AP) — Vietnam's National Assembly has elected the police chief to be the country's new president, the second-highest post in the country. Public Security Minister Tran Dai Quang, 59, took the oath of office Saturday after the vote. He was widely expected to become president after being re-elected to the Politburo, the powerful 19-member committee that effectively rules the country, at the Communist Party Congress in January. At that January meeting, Nguyen Phu Trong was re-elected to the top post of party general secretary. In Vietnam, the president is the head of state and chief commander of the military, while the prime minister — to be chosen next week — oversees the economy.

SEOUL, South Korea (AP) — North Korea fired a short-range missile into the sea and tried to jam GPS navigation signals in South Korea, Seoul officials said, hours after U.S., South Korean and Japanese leaders pledged to work closer together to prevent North Korea from advancing its nuclear and missile programs. North Korea's official Korean Central News Agency said Saturday that authoritarian leader Kim Jong Un expressed "great satisfaction" after observing a successful live-fire test of a new anti-air weapons system, but didn't say when and where the test took place. South Korean military officials on Friday said they detected the North firing a surface-to-air missile off its east coast, and it wasn't immediately clear if the two were linked.

WASHINGTON (AP) — President Barack Obama says suggestions from people like Donald Trump that South Korea and Japan should develop nuclear weapons show a lack of understanding of the world. He says they show a lack of knowledge about foreign policy, nuclear policy and the Korean Peninsula. Obama was asked about the issue Friday after Trump said Japan and South Korea should develop nuclear weapons as a deterrent to North Korea. The president says the U.S. doesn't want someone in the Oval Office who doesn't recognize the potential trouble in such a development. Obama noted that Trump's comments came up during discussions with leaders at the nuclear summit in Washington.

HANOI, Vietnam (AP) — As China opened one of its six dams on the upper Mekong River last month to help parched Southeast Asian countries down river cope with a record drought, it was hailed as benevolent water diplomacy. But to critics of hydroelectric dams built on the Mekong over the concerns of governments and activists, it was the self-serving act of a country that, along with hydropower-exporting Laos, has helped worsen the region's water and environmental problems. Much of Southeast Asia is suffering its worst drought in 20 or more years. Tens of millions of people in the region are affected by the low level of the Mekong, a rice-bowl-sustaining river system that flows into Laos, Thailand, Cambodia and Vietnam.

NEW DELHI (AP) — When an under-construction overpass collapsed and killed at least 23 people in the bustling east Indian city of Kolkata, the images were shocking: massive fallen steel girders, taxis crumpled under slabs of concrete, a crushed truck, destroyed rickshaws and dozens of people trapped. What followed was more or less routine in this country of 1.3 billion. The chief minister of West Bengal state blamed the private builders and the previous government that had commissioned the project. Other officials shot back by accusing her of playing politics. And the builders expressed surprise, calling the accident "an act of God." Tragic accidents from failing infrastructure, some of it old and some just being built, have occurred regularly as India undergoes a breakneck construction boom.