http://www.4-traders.com/WORLD-URANIUM-INDEX-USD-541713/news/North-Korea-Fires-Missile-Into-the-Sea-22105054/
150
15
By Alastair Gale

SEOUL--North Korea held a fresh missile test Friday, keeping up a show of force hours after U.S. President Barack Obama met East Asian leaders in Washington to discuss how to curtail Pyongyang's nuclear-weapons program.

Around 12:45 p.m. local time, North Korea fired a short-range surface-to-air missile from a base on its east coast into the sea, a spokesman for South Korea's Joint Chiefs of Staff said.

Separately, Seoul said Pyongyang was attempting to block global-positioning-system signals in South Korea, although officials said there was no significant impact on air or sea traffic.

Pyongyang has held a series of missile and rocket tests since early March as it protests annual U.S.-South Korea military drills in South Korea and comes under pressure from new international sanctions.

The U.S. has led to drive to penalize North Korea since its Jan. 6 nuclear bomb test and Feb. 7 long-range rocket launch, widely seen as a test of ballistic-missile technology.

China, North Korea's only major ally and dominant trading partner, has signed on to the United Nations sanctions. In Washington on Thursday, Chinese President Xi Jinping told Mr. Obama that Beijing is "adamant" about denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula through dialogue, according to the official Xinhua News Agency.

Mr. Obama also discussed North Korea with South Korean President Park Geun-hye and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. The three nations have imposed their own sanctions on North Korea in addition to the U.N. penalties, seeking to pressure Pyongyang to abandon nuclear weapons.

North Korea--which refuses to discuss its nuclear program unless the U.S. first withdraws its military from the region--has responded angrily to the sanctions, showing off its military hardware and making claims about ballistic-missile and nuclear-weapon progress. Last month it test-fired into the sea a ballistic missile with enough range to reach Japan and U.S. military bases in the East Asian region.

North Korea has also raised the level of vitriol. Its main newspaper, Rodong Sinmun, on Wednesday called U.S.-South Korea coordination on sanctions "a ridiculous charade of the blind."

"They are sadly mistaken if they calculate they can do anything through such 'sanctions'," it said.

On Friday, the South Korean government said Pyongyang has also been trying for several weeks to jam GPS signals, widely used in navigation of airplanes and ships.

"The influx of disruptive waves was detected in dozens of planes and ships, but no damage has been reported so far," the science ministry said in a statement. North Korea has tried to jam GPS signals since 2010 but the latest disruption hasn't been as powerful as previous ones, the ministry said.

Officials at the transport ministry's aviation control division and South Korea's main airport in the city of Incheon said there have been no flight delays or disruptions.

Kwanwoo Jun and In-Soo Nam contributed to this article.

Write to Alastair Gale at alastair.gale@wsj.com