http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3437679/I-NOT-bad-Army-wife-Woman-fighting-10-year-battle-military-soldier-husband-cleaned-bank-accounts-cut-benefits-plunging-death-parachuting-accident.html
151
15
For ten years, Kathy Mills has been at war. First it was fighting her military husband - then, it became the military itself.

The f ormer special education teacher and Mary Kay sales director wants the $500,000 she should have been paid when her husband abandoned her to deploy to Iraq and later died in a parachuting 'accident'.

'The worst part was not being abandoned by my husband,' Kathy tells Daily Mail Online exclusively. 'It was being abandoned by the military and abandoned by the court system.'

'I had been a taxpayer, a contributing member of society. I believe character counts. But I had a scarlet letter put on me by the court. I was a bad Army wife.'

Chief Warrant Officer 3 Roger Mills accompanied his wife, Kathy, to a cowboy-themed event for Mary Kay Cosmetics in 1995. Roger wiped out their accounts after he filed for divorce and later died in a jumping accident

Despite her smile, Kathy Mills says her 1986 marriage to Roger quickly became strained as money with Roger was a nightmare because he could not keep a job leaving them in debt

Kathy filed for legal separation in 2001 from Roger after a frightening threat of domestic violence. He then wrote to her while deployed to Kosovo that he wanted to work on their marriage

When Kathy married Herbert 'Roger' Mills, a West Point graduate and Special Forces operative, she thought she was marrying her best friend.

They tied the knot at the United States Military Academy at West Point, New York, on January 27, 1986.

They originally met while she was in high school, but went on to marry other people before divorcing and then reuniting years later thanks to Roger's mom.

But it didn't take long for the marriage to become strained.

Kathy discovered his obsession with pornography, which upset her tremendously.

He decides he's in a funk. Okay, he's in a funk. And then there would be moments of great family togetherness. It was all a big ball of confusion and unpredictability.

She endured his silent treatment. 'At one point we lived in the same home, and he didn't speak to me for three months,' she says.

Their financial life was a nightmare as Mills could never keep a job leaving them in debt.

Kathy, who worked as a special education teacher, also started a Mary Kay business earning an extra $100,000 a year as a 'Grand Achiever'.

She also was raising her two children from her first marriage.

'I can't describe how weird it was,' she tells. 'He decides he's in a funk. Okay, he's in a funk. And then there would be moments of great family togetherness. It was all a big ball of confusion and unpredictability.'

After a threat of domestic violence, Kathy filed for legal separation in 2001. Mills deployed to Kosovo and then wrote to her to say that he wanted to work on their marriage.

So they went to counseling. After three cautious years, Kathy believed they had reconciled.

Now, she realizes, 'he was a snake waiting for the right opportunity.'

In 2005, Mills launched his plan. After losing yet another civilian job in Conneaut, Ohio, Mills was working for the Ohio National Guard.

Mills had always been involved in the military. After five years in Special Forces, he was a major in the Army Reserve, but never completed required courses for promotion.

He retired from the Reserve and joined the Guard as an enlisted man - a Chief Warrant Officer 3 (CWO-3).

Kathy, believing her marriage was finally on firm footing, had given up her tenured teaching job in Akron, and her established Mary Kay network, to join her husband in Conneaut.

When he was fired, they had two homes and massive credit card debt.

In order to meet their expenses, Mills urged Kathy to liquidate her $126,000 teacher pension to pay off their debts. She did.

Then, the Special Forces Group of the Ohio National Guard was called up to deploy to Iraq.

Even though Mills had spent more than 30 years in the military, he'd never been in combat. So at the age of 57, he volunteered to go to Iraq.

Kathy and Roger Mills attended the 30-year reunion of his West Point class in 2003. Married for 20 years, Kathy thought she would get his life insurance from the military but he had removed her as a beneficiary without her knowledge

One problem - he never told his wife.

In August 2005, Mills wiped out all their bank accounts.

He filed for divorce in Ashtabula County, Ohio, and obtained a restraining order, preventing both he and his wife from selling or changing their assets, according to court documents.

Kathy had no full-time job, severely reduced Mary Kay income and no retirement fund.

She had two mortgages and legal guardianship of her nine-year-old grandson. She retained a lawyer and filed for temporary spousal support.

Mills manipulated multiple military programs and regulations, and the gap between federal and state law, to deprive Kathy of any money, she tells Daily Mail Online.

First Mills invoked the Service Members Civil Relief Act (SCRA).

The SCRA provides certain protections for members of the military when they are called to active duty, according to Military.com.

The law enables them to postpone civil court proceedings and judgments.

Mills kept arranging out-of-state temporary duty assignments, and kept invoking the SCRA to skip divorce court, Kathy explains.

All branches of the United States military require service members to support their families - and if they don't, their commanders are obligated to intervene.

In fact, the Army pays soldiers to take care of their dependents. As a married soldier, Mills was entitled to extra money to cover his family's housing expenses, called Basic Allowance for Housing (BAH).

Mills began collecting BAH payments at the 'with dependents' rate on September 1, 2005.

According to Army regulations, in the absence of a court order, Mills should have paid Kathy $769.80 per month - half of the BAH money he received. He paid her nothing, she says.

CWO-3 Roger Mills (second from left) participated in a scuba exercise while deployed with the Special Forces in 2001

Roger Mills (right) with Kathy's son at Fort Benning, GA, in 1997. Mills accompanied him on his first paratrooper jump

Herbert 'Roger' Mills in his 1973 senior portrait from West Point. He was in the Army Special Forces for five years, then joined the Army Reserve in 1978 and the Ohio National Guard in 1996

Roger Mills with his Company C-4 at West Point in 1973. Roger Mills is front row, third from right, leaning against the wall with his feet crossed

Mills also collected $250 per month as a 'Family Separation Allowance.' This money is supposed to provide compensation for added expenses incurred because soldiers are away from their families.

Mills wasn't eligible for the money because he had filed for divorce, but he collected it anyway. He still paid her nothing.

In November 2005, Kathy notified her husband's commanders that Mills was not supporting her. At this point, Army regulations required them to get involved.

Then at Thanksgiving, Kathy found out that her husband was deploying to Iraq in January. She was shocked.

Kathy went to Colonel Deborah Ashenhurst, brigade commander of the Ohio National Guard.

Kathy says she told her that her husband wasn't supporting her, and didn't sign her up for medical coverage. He couldn't deploy.

'Col. Ashenhurst said to me, "You don't want to be a bad Army wife, do you?'' Kathy recalls.

'Through my tears - I'm sitting at the table sobbing - I remember saying, 'I don't want to be a bad Army wife.'

Mills shipped out to Iraq, on what was supposed to be a year-long tour. But less than three months in, commanders decided to send Mills back to the US.

Kathy said she received a phone call from a Special Forces attorney - her husband was angry that she had been contacting his commanders over his lack of financial support, he was threatening to kill her and she needed to protect herself.

Soldiers prepare to load the CH-47 Chinook helicopter in anticipation of a jump to honor CWO-3 Roger Mills

Family of Roger Mills stand at the drop zone marker at Rickenbacker Air National Guard Base in Columbus, Ohio. They are holding a plaque commemorating the drop zone named in Mills' honor

On April 10, 2006, Kathy went to court for a civil order of protection - her husband was to have no contact with her.

He also had to give up all firearms. Police confiscated nine rifles and six pistols from the Mills' home in Conneaut, Ohio.

Along with the order of protection, Judge Carol J. Dezso, of Summit County, Ohio, awarded Kathy $1,800 a month is spousal support but Kathy never received it.

She continued to contact her husband's commanders and other military officials about his lack of support. Mills continued to fight her in court.

If her husband wasn't going to pay her the BAH money that he collected as a married soldier, Kathy said, then she wanted him prosecuted for defrauding the United States government.

She sought assistance from then Ohio Governor Ted Strickland, as he was the commander in chief of the Ohio National Guard, as well as several Senators and Congressmen.

Nothing happened. The divorce battle wore on for five years.

In the meantime, commanders at the Ohio National Guard grew tired of Mills' insubordination.

Lieutenant Colonel Paul. D. McAllister wrote a personnel memo on March 5, 2009, documenting that 'CWO-3 Mills is unable to work with traditional commanders and others in a professional manner.'

The IRS came after me. I was the one that bore the burden of the $60,000 tax bill, with no insurance.

Lt. Col. McAllister limited Mills to a desk job at Ohio Army National Guard headquarters in Columbus until his mandatory retirement date.

On October 20, 2010, Mills was the jumpmaster for a parachute training jump at Rickenbacker Air National Guard Base in Columbus - even though he no longer qualified for the responsibility.

Mills landed hard on concrete, cracked his helmet, jaw and the back of his skull, and was dragged by his parachute into a ditch.

His fellow jumpers did not look for him immediately because Mills was known for not reporting to the assembly area, according to the official investigation.

He bled for almost an hour before he was found. Four days later he died of his injuries. The investigation attributed his death to 'jumper error.'

But after the accident, Kathy learned that a female sergeant, who worked with her husband, saw him write his upcoming schedule on the office whiteboard: 'Wednesday - jump. Thursday - hospital. Friday - hospital.'

Kathy believes her husband planned to be injured in the jump. She had finally won her battle for support, and the court in Summit County, Ohio, was garnishing $1,600 per month from his Ohio National Guard pay.

'He had to jump, then walk away with a back injury, which is hard to diagnose,' Kathy explains.

'He'd go to a physician's assistant and get diagnosed with 100% disability.'

If Mills received Veterans Administration disability payments, which are tax-free, Kathy could not claim the money.

VA disability payments cannot be divided as marital or community property in divorce, according to federal law.

When Kathy went to her husband's home and two storage units after his death, she found that they were filled with stolen military equipment - guns, ammunition, lockers, C-rations and even award plaques engraved with other men's names.

After Roger Mills died in a parachute accident, his wife, Kathy Mills, found multiple weapons in his home and storage units

Kathy also found a crate full of ammunition with all the guns her husband had in his possession when he died

Roger Mills stole equipment from the military, including cases of ready-to-eat meals and award plaques engraved with other men's names

She also found DVDs stamped 'classified,' and numerous personnel files including files on generals. She called the military. Five soldiers came to remove the materials, filling two SUVs.

Kathy wanted her husband investigated.

Instead, a year after his death, Ohio Senator Frank LaRose sponsored legislation naming the parachute drop zone at the Rickenbacker Air National Guard Base in his honor.

The Ohio National Guard Special Forces soldiers held a parachute jump and ceremony to commemorate Mills. Kathy was not invited.

When Mills died, their divorce was still not finalized, so Kathy was his widow.

She believed she would receive his $400,000 Service Members Group Life Insurance (SGLI) payment, and the military's $100,000 death gratuity. Kathy was wrong.

A year earlier, Mills had removed her as the beneficiary for both payments, despite the civil restraining order preventing both of them from selling or changing their assets in their divorce that Mills, himself, had implemented.

Kathy said that his commander, Major Jeff Watkins, signed the change of beneficiary form and placed it in Mills' file. This did not follow Army procedures.

The form should have been processed by the unit's personnel department and uploaded to the personnel database.

The $400,000 went to his brother tax-free. And $75,000 of the death gratuity went to Mills' brother, sister and mother.

The soldier left behind marital debt and unpaid taxes. 'The IRS came after me,' Kathy says. 'I was the one that bore the burden of the $60,000 tax bill, with no insurance.'

Kathy was never notified by the military of her husband's beneficiary changes.

Members of the military can choose anyone they want to receive their insurance money if they die. SGLI policy requires spouses to be notified if soldiers change coverage.

But this notification requirement has no teeth, because SGLI policy also specifically states that if the Department of Defense fails to notify the spouse, nothing happens. The spouse has no recourse.

Whomever the soldier named gets the money, even if the spouse had no idea of any change or cancellation of coverage, and even if the spouse and children are destitute.

Kathy Mills (third from left) once had a strong Mary Kay network earning $100,000 a year. Here she is with her group of directors

Kathy and Roger Mills took their grandson to the circus in 2001. At the time Roger left her she had no full-time job, severely reduced Mary Kay income and no retirement fund because she cashed in her $126,000 pension to pay off their debts

Roger and Kathy Mills had their portrait taken in 2005 just before he volunteered to deploy to Iraq, wiped out their bank accounts and filed for divorce

The Ohio National Guard chose not to investigate why Kathy was never notified that her husband removed her as his insurance beneficiary.

Kathy was able to get some money from the death gratuity. She received $40,000 of the standard $100,000 payment, because the military acknowledged errors in how Mills filled out the beneficiary form.

But Kathy contends she should have received the entire $100,000 death gratuity, and the $400,000 insurance payment, because her husband violated the restraining order in their divorce, and the U.S. Army violated its own policies and the law.

The Army twice denied her claim. Kathy is now appealing.