http://www.dawn.com/news/1257995/from-the-past-pages-of-dawn-1966-fifty-years-ago-test-ban-treaty-violation
150
15
LAHORE: The Foreign Minister, Mr Z.A. Bhutto, today [May 12] said that the provision of nuclear umbrella to non-nuclear powers was a violation of the obligation undertaken by the nuclear Powers under the test ban treaty.

He was commenting on the statement of the Indian Foreign Minister, Sardar Swaran Singh, that India would seek nuclear protection from nuclear Powers failing which she would have her own bombs.

The Foreign Minister said the basic problems was that if non-proliferation was a way of avoiding the spread of nuclear weapons, it was necessary not to make exceptions and allow proliferation to take place through the back door.

Mr Bhutto said the nuclear umbrella is a form of proliferation. The countries which are opposed to nuclear multilateral force (MLF) on the ground that it is a form of proliferation should also consider whether the request for nuclear umbrella is not a form of proliferation either. If certain non-nuclear countries seek protection from certain nuclear Powers, the other non-nuclear Powers also have a right to seek protection from other nuclear Powers. This would lead to greater proliferation which the majority of nuclear Powers wanted to avoid, he said.

Asked about the prospects of a Ministerial meeting between India and Pakistan, Mr Bhutto said that there had been no further development on the question. He pointed out that the agenda and subject matters had to be considered before a meeting was held as was done in the case of the first meeting. When his attention was drawn to the reports that India is massing troops on Azad Kashmir borders, the Foreign Minister said: “We would have to be vigilant.”

[Meanwhile in Karachi] it was announced that the 4th All Pakistan Political Science Conference will be inaugurated by Foreign Minister Mr Z.A. Bhutto on May 18 at the Karachi University campus. The three-day conference will be spread over five sessions devoted to Islamic political theory and Institutions; constitutional development in Pakistan; Special session on the R.C.D; Local Government and Basic Democracies and Public Administration.

Published in Dawn, May 13th, 2016