http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/coimbatore/Diwali-shoppers-descend-on-commercial-hubs/articleshow/55124271.cms
154
15
Coimbatore: The Diwali buzz that came alive in the city over the past few days peaked on Friday with last-minute shoppers descending on commercial hubs of the city.Denizens of the city started trickling down to Big Bazaar Street , Oppanakara Street, Town Hall, 100 Feet Road, R S Puram and Cross Cut Road right from the morning. As the day progressed, the footfalls started increasing manifold and by evening there was milling crowd in all these places. People had come from Pollachi, Mettupalayam, Tirupur and Nilgiris too."We do have lot of textile outlets in Tirupur. But Diwali shopping is an experience worth cherishing. So we planned a trip to Coimbatore, visited at least three or four shops and bought clothes for all of us,'' says B Ramachandran from Tirupur. The shopping trip is incomplete for them without a family dinner in a hotel and sometimes a movie, he says.Traders say the Diwali sales was slow this year to begin with but had picked up pace over the past few days. One of the reasons for the initial lull was delay in giving bonus for industrial and textile workers. But on Friday, owners of textile outlets seemed to be happy with the turnout of crowd."We are indeed having a busy day. We are getting family crowds buying clothes, but so many new shops have come up. So, we cannot say that we are making a bigger sale than last year,'' said a manager of a popular textile outlet.The police said so far there were no untoward incidents like pickpocketing and chain snatching that usually happen during festival season in shopping areas. The police have deployed five special teams of policemen in plainclothes in key shopping areas and have erected watch towers. College students have been roped in for regulating traffic in these areas.Meanwhile, in bus stands the special buses operated by the state government were far less to meet the demand.As many as 350 special buses were operated in Coimbatore, Erode, Tirupur and Nilgiris.Still, there were hundreds heading to various destinations in the state stuck for hours without buses in Singanallur and other bus stands.