http://zeenews.india.com/news/india/after-terrorists-mutilate-jawan-indian-security-forces-retaliate-destroy-4-pak-army-posts_1944908.html
152
15
Srinagar: Hours after an Indian soldier was mutilated in a horrific attack on the border, the Army hit back and destroyed at least four Pakistani border posts in a late night massive fire assault on Saturday.

The posts were destroyed in a massive fire assault in the Keran sector of Jammu and Kashmir's Kupwara district, the army's Northern Command said.

Heavy casualties were inflicted on the other side, it said.

Also Read: Indian soldier's body mutilated: Martyr Mandeep Singh's family wants 10 Pakistani heads

The development comes after terrorists from Pakistan on Friday killed a soldier and mutilated his body near the LoC in Kupwara's Machhal sector.

The attackers have fled to Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir (PoK) after the attack, helped by covering fire from Pakistani troops.

In a brief statement, the army had said "appropriate response" will be given.

Also Read: Pakistan terrorists mutilate Indian soldier's body in cross-LoC attack; Army vows 'appropriate response'

"In a despicable act, terrorists mutilated the body of an Indian army soldier before fleeing into PoK, supported by covering fire from Pakistani Army posts.

"This barbarism is a true reflection which pervades official and non-official organisations across the border.

“This act will invite an appropriate response," it said after the attack.

The Pakistani troops have stepped up attacks in the past few weeks, targeting Indian security positions in Kathua, RS Pura and Keran sectors on the border.

Also Read: Congress demands befitting reply over mutilation of soldier's body

This is not the first time Pakistan has mutilated the bodies of Indian soldiers.

During the Kargil war in 1999, several soldiers of 4 Jat Regiment were captured by Pakistani troops and brutally tortured.

The soldiers had their ear drums pierced with hot iron rods, eyes punctured and genitals cut off.

The autopsy of the bodies also revealed that they were burned with cigarettes butts. Their limbs were also chopped off, teeth broken and skull fractured. Even their nose and lips were sliced off.

The Third Geneva Convention makes it illegal to torture prisoners.