http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/dramatic-footage-shows-russia-carrying-9134376
151
15
Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

This footage shows Russia carrying out emergency drills involving more than 40million people 'in preparation for nuclear war'.

In the video, crews in protective suits and gas masks can be seen participating in the four-day exercise alongside members of the public.

The drills - held in the country earlier this month - reportedly included a staggering 200,000 rescue 'specialists' and nearly 50,000 vehicles.

They also are said to have involved 40million people - including young students.

The exercise by the Kremlin's Ministry of Emergency Situations took place after officials warned that the West wanted to launch strikes on the country.

The emergency nuclear drills reportedly involved more than 40million people

They also involved a staggering 200,000 rescue 'specialists' and nearly 50,000 vehicles

Getty Russian President Vladimir Putin has frustrated Western leaders with Russia's actions in Syria

Officials said the training was a rehearsal of a response to chemical and nuclear threats, The Wall Street Journal reports.

Moscow's civil-defense plans are also apparently being upgraded.

According to RIA Novosti, Andrey Mishchenko, deputy head of the ministry, said: "An inventory was taken in Moscow of the city’s underground spaces, in order to allow us to plan for sheltering 100 per cent of the city’s population."

The drills were due to be held from October 4 to 7.

Speaking earlier this month, Civil Defence Department director, Oleg Manuilov, told Interfax the exercise would be 'attended by more than 40 million people, more than 200,000 professionals rescue units and 50,000 pieces of equipment'.

It comes as Britain is set to send hundreds of soldiers and hardware to Russia's borders as part of a huge military deployment.

The drills took place after officials warned that the West wanted to launch strikes on the country

Moscow's civil-defense plans are also apparently being upgraded

Video loading Watch next Watch this video again Watch Next Click to play Tap to play The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

A total of 800 troops, drones and tanks are moving to Estonia next spring, Defence Secretary Michael Fallon said.

The move is part of the biggest military build up of NATO troops on Russia's borders since the Cold War.

Mr Fallon said the deployment of the battalion, supported by French and Danish troops, will start from May 2017.

"Although we are leaving the European Union, we will be doing more to help secure the eastern and southern flanks of NATO," Mr Fallon said.

London is also sending Typhoon fighter aircraft to Romania to patrol around the Black Sea, partly in support of Turkey.

It follows an increase in tensions between the West and Russia in recent months.

NATO is pressing allies including the US and Britain to contribute to the military presence as the alliance prepares for a long quarrel with Moscow.

Barcroft Media A Russian aircraft carrier passed through the English Channel last week on its way to Syria

Google Maps The huge troop deployment will take place in Estonia

Last week, a Russian aircraft carrier passed through the English Channel as it travelled to Syria in a show of force along Europe's shores.

Alliance defence ministers aim to make good on a July promise by NATO leaders to send forces to the Baltic states and eastern Poland from early next year.

The United States hopes for binding commitments from Europe to fill four battle groups of some 4,000 troops, part of NATO's response to Russia's 2014 annexation of Crimea and concern it could try a similar tactic in Europe's ex-Soviet states.

France, Denmark, Italy and other allies are expected to join the four battle groups led by the United States, Germany, Britain and Canada to go to Poland, Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia, with forces ranging from armoured infantry to drones.

NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said the commitments would be "a clear demonstration of our transatlantic bond."

Diplomats said it would also send a message to Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump, who has complained that European allies do not pay their way in the alliance.

Rex Michael Fallon has agreed to British troops joining NATO forces in Estonia

Getty Thousands of NATO troops will head towards Russia's border

The battle groups will be backed by NATO's 40,000-strong rapid-reaction force, and if need be, further follow-on forces, for any potential conflict, which could move into Baltic states and Poland on rotation.

The strategy is part of an emerging new deterrent that could eventually be combined with missile defences, air patrols and defences against cyber attacks.

However, the alliance is still struggling for a similar strategy in the Black Sea region, which Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan has said is becoming a "Russian lake" because of Moscow's military presence there.

Romania, Bulgaria and Turkey are expected to soon come forward with a plan to increase naval and air patrols in the area, as well as a multinational NATO brigade in Romania.

For the Kremlin, the U.S.-led alliance's plans are already too much given Russia's grievances at NATO's expansion eastwards.

Getty A Russian Topol intercontinental ballistic missile launcher

Stoltenberg denied going too far. "This is a credible deterrence, not to provoke a conflict but to prevent conflict."

Next year's deployments have taken on greater symbolism since Russia pulled out of several nuclear disarmament agreements in the past two months while moving nuclear-capable missiles into its Baltic exclave in Kaliningrad.

Video loading Click to play Tap to play The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

The so-called Iskander-M cruise missiles can hit targets across Poland and the Baltics, although NATO officials declined to say if Russia had moved nuclear warheads to Kaliningrad.

"This deployment, if it becomes permanent, if the presence of nuclear weapons were confirmed, would be a change in (Russia's) security posture," the United States' envoy to NATO, Douglas Lute, said.

Getty NATO troops on patrol

Tensions have been building since Crimea and the West's decision to impose retaliatory sanctions, but the breakdown of a U.S-Russia brokered ceasefire in Syria on October 3, followed by U.S. accusations that Russia has used cyber attacks to disrupt the presidential election, have signalled a sharp worsening of East-West relations.

EU leaders met last week to consider fresh sanctions over Russian bombing of civilian areas in Aleppo and NATO's Stoltenberg said he fears the Russian warships heading to the Mediterranean could launch new attacks on the Syrian city.

Even before the break down of the Syrian ceasefire, Russian President Vladimir Putin suspended a treaty with Washington on cleaning up weapons-grade plutonium, signalling he was willing to use nuclear disarmament as a new bargaining chip in disputes with the United States over Ukraine and Syria.