http://www.tribune.net.ph/headlines/palace-dfa-split-over-shoal-status
151
15
ABELLA: CHINESE LEFT; DFA: VALIDATION NEEDED

By Joyce Ann L. Rocamora



The Palace and the Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA) are at odds over the situation at Scarborough Shoal as presidential spokesman Ernesto Abella confirmed that Chinese vessels have left the contested shoal in the South China Sea while Foreign Affairs Assistant Secretary Charles Jose said Chinese withdrawal in the area still needs validation. Abella’s confirmation yesterday came less than a week after President Duterte visited Beijing pledging closer ties.

The firebrand leader used the trip to signal an independent policy away from traditional ally the United States in favor of Beijing, which was previously at loggerheads with Manila over the maritime dispute.

China took control of the Scarborough Shoal, 230 kilometers from the island of Luzon, in 2012, driving Filipino fishermen away from the rich fishing ground, sometimes using water cannons.

In a case brought by Duterte’s predecessor, former president Aquino, the Philippines won a resounding victory at an international tribunal earlier this year over Beijing’s extensive maritime claims in the area, infuriating the Asian giant.

But Duterte has made a point of not flaunting the ruling and President Xi Jinping told the Philippine leader on his recent visit that there was no reason for hostility and difficult topics of discussion “could be shelved temporarily.”

“There is no sign of Chinese coastguard vessels in the area. While we do not have any official explanation for this, it sends a positive signal regarding relations,” Abella said, referring to the shoal.

“This is a welcome development especially for Filipino fisherfolk,” he added.

The DFA, however, said reports concerning the Chinese leaving the shoal must be verified first before government agencies can issue an official statement.

Jose said the DFA’s position regarding the situation on the shoal is in line with what Defense Secretary Delfin Lorenzana had said.

Last Friday, Lorenzana said: “If the Chinese ships have left then it means our fishermen can resume fishing in the area.”

“The reports that Filipino fishermen can now fish in Scarborough Shoal still need to be validated by relevant Philippine government agencies,” Jose told the Daily Tribune.

Asked if this indicates that the government is not yet releasing an official go-signal, Jose said they “can’t say much at this time until we have verified the report.”

The Chinese Foreign Ministry, however, while not making any confirmation on the Chinese pullout said the existing situation in the disputed area “is an evident reflection of China and Philippine bilateral relations turning to a new page of ‘all-around improvement.’”

Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Lu Kang said the new phase of bilateral relations between both countries was the result of discussion between Duterte and Xi on fishery in the South China Sea, including fishing industrial cooperation.

“As we have been saying, before the erroneous policy of the previous Philippine government led to the deterioration of China-Philippine relations, the two countries had been properly managing disputes related to the South China Sea through bilateral dialog and consultation and conducting cooperation, for the most part of the history since the establishment of diplomatic relations.”

Lu said as of now, what he can tell is that the two sides are in “communication” on the sea dispute.

The US State Department, however, said it is also assessing the situation in the region.

State Department spokesman Mark Toner only affirmed that the US government is aware of reports about decreased presence of Chinese boats in the area.

He said the US government hopes “it’s certainly not a temporary measure.”

Saying the US government being one of the firm supporters of the shelved arbitral ruling over South China Sea, Toner said the US government like it to be a “sign that China and the Philippines are moving towards an agreement on fishing access” at Scarborough reef and that it would be in accordance with the July 12th arbitral decision.

Duterte had hinted at the possibility of a Chinese withdrawal directly upon his return from Beijing last week, saying: “We’ll just wait for a few more days. We might be able to return to Scarborough Shoal.”

News reports said fishermen from the northern province of Pangasinan had returned to shore Saturday with “a huge load of big species of fish” caught at Scarborough Shoal.

US worth leaving for China

— Roque

Several politicians, technocrats and businessmen who joined Duterte in his recently-concluded state visit to China gave a thumbs up sign to the results of the state visit.

Some of those who joined the President said a policy moving away from the United States in favor of China is worthy of consideration as far as value of investments placed in the country. No less than 400 personalities have joined the president in that trip that is said to have generated billions of dollars of investment pledges.

Kabayan partylist Rep. Harry Roque said the intention of the president was clear which was the pursuit of an independent foreign policy and that he wanted to foster closer ties with China.

He said Duterte, who is a lawyer like him, is not alone in this endeavor as Pakistan did the same when it publicly announced it is severing ties with its Western allies in favor of China.

However, sources said Pakistan’s close ties with China has angered its neighbor and mortal enemy India. The ties with China prompted Indian president to increase soldiers patrolling the India-Pakistan border in Kashmir province.

The two countries have been into six bloody wars since Pakistan was separated from India in 1947.

Roque said the Philippines cannot ignore China, especially in terms of contribution to export revenues and foreign exchange.

“We cannot be blind to the fact that we can take advantage of this economic development. Perhaps to illustrate, right now we received $5 billion worth of foreign investments from China,” he said.

“Our neighboring country, Malaysia, receives $40 billion. Clearly, the strained ties between the Philippines and China in the past was the reason why Chinese investors have shied away from the Philippines,” Roque said.

The lawmaker also said the recent trip of the president to China has helped the Philippines iron out territorial problems.

“What the Tribunal said is absolutely binding on both the Philippines and China. On the artificial islands, the Tribunal was very clear, since these artificial islands are built within our EEZ (exclusive economic zone), only the Philippines can build on these islands,” Roque said.

On the contrary, many personalities have said US has done nothing much that will help the Philippines efforts to fight poverty. Several authors called the US the premier bully and “it’s military bases here stand as symbol of decades of colonization.”

CPP wants follow-up moves

The local communist movement also welcome Duterte’s apparent Chinese pivot.

In a statement, the Communist Party of the Philippines (CPP) said that the initiative of self-proclaimed leftist Duterte to strengthen ties with Red China is positive because it veers away from Washington.

“This policy declaration is mostly positive because it asserts the country’s national sovereignty and independence from US dictates and impositions and thus opens potentials for substantial socio-economic changes and progress,” the CPP said.

The CPP added Duterte must forego, aside from American forces, to joint military exercises with Japan as it tends to jeopardize the Philippines’ recently renewed ties with China.

“Duterte must also demand the US, as well as Japan and other countries, to stop its military patrols in the South China Sea to lower tensions which preempt and undermine bilateral and multilateral talks by countries with overlapping claims,” it added.

In his visit to China, Duterte was reported to have secured as much as $24 billion in investments and loan pledges. The amount of planned investments ($15 billion) represents a 400 percent jump from last year’s investments from China.

It is indicative of how much interested it is in wresting the Philippines from US sphere of influence and transforming the country in accordance with the China’s blueprint for a Factory Asia.

Using their usual anti-US rhetoric that tends to be synonymous with Duterte’s epithets, to be “independent” in military and economy terms with the US opens the Philippines’ chances to be more progressive, the CPP said.

“Ending US military presence is the basic condition for transforming Philippine economy and society. US military forces inside and around the country serve as outposts of US imperialism to ensure (through coercion or threat of coercion) that policies imposed by the US and the International Monetary Fund-World Bank (IMF-WB) policies are carried out by the client-state,” it said.

The CPP also reiterated its call on Duterte to rush the ejection of US troops in the Philippines as soon as possible and as well as abrogating the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (EDCA), the Visiting Forces Agreement (VFA) and Mutual Defense Treaty (MDT).

“Immediately, Duterte must ask the US to dismantle all its military bases and facilities inside Camp Aguinaldo, Camp Navarro in Zamboanga and other (Armed Forces of the Philippines) camps and cancel all joint military exercises which primarily serve the forward deployment schemes of the US. He must end permanent ‘rotational presence’ of US troops,” the CPP said.

Meanwhile, an indigenous Moro group said they’re backing President Duterte’s anti-American prospects.

In a demonstration in Manila Thursday along with other national minorities, militant group Suara Bangsamoro said that their ancestral lands are vulnerable to US militarization.

“National minority communities, especially the territories of the Moro, have been the main target of US military operations and the Oplan Bayanihan,” Jerome Succor Aba, Suara Bangsamoro spokesman, said adding that American intervention is obvious in the AFP counter-insurgency activities.

“President Duterte must decisively repudiate Oplan Bayanihan, the long-standing counter-insurgency plan designed by no less than the US State Department to systematically militarize Moro and indigenous people’s lands,” he added.

The group also said that they want the Duterte administration to materialize his “separation” pronouncements from Washington to justify his so-called independent foreign policy.

Meanwhile, despite Duterte’s statements that he wants US forces ejected from Mindanao, about a hundred more American troops arrived in Mindanao last Tuesday.

“These are normal rotations. Those who have left were US Marines and they were replaced by US Army soldiers. Definitely, the Marines will bring back their own equipment,” Lt. Gen. Mayoralgo de la Cruz, the Western Mindanao Command commander, said in a statement.

“There are 107 of them. All of them are still here,” he added.

Ed Velasco, Ted Tuvera, AFP

--