http://www.nation.co.ke/counties/Terror-attacks-have-reduced-in-Lamu/1107872-3378440-222i9cz/
153
15
By KALUME KAZUNGU

More by this Author

Lamu County has recorded significant decrease in terror alerts following intensification of the ongoing operation linda boni by Kenya Defence Forces.

Speaking to journalists in Lamu on Monday, County Commissioner Joseph Kanyiri lauded residents for their cooperation in submitting information, which he said has been helpful in the war on terror.

“I can confidently tell you that we have fewer cases of terror alerts received by my office at the moment. I congratulate our security officers conducting the Linda Boni operation inside the Boni forest.

"This has greatly assisted in maintaining peace in Lamu. I also want to thank members of the public. They have been very helpful in giving information that has boosted our work," said Mr Kanyiri.

Linda Boni Operation Director James Ole Serian said the exercise is ongoing and would be so for an unspecified period.

The multiagency security measure was launched on September 11, 2015 by Interior Cabinet Secretary Major (retired) General Joseph Nkaissery to flush out Al-Shabaab militants believed to be hiding in the dense Boni forest.

Earlier, it was intended to take 90 days.

REMAIN ALERT

Mr Serian acknowledged the success of the operation saying that incidents of terror attacks and attempts in the region have reduced substantially.

“The government is keen to ensure all Al-Shabaab elements hiding deep within the Boni forest are completely eliminated. At the moment, cases of attacks have really come down. There is more peace and stability in Lamu now. We still plan to do more in order to intensify the operation as time goes by in order to ensure we completely dominate the entire forest,” he said.

He added that hundreds of suspects have been arrested and their cases are already in progress in various courts in Lamu and Tana River counties.

During his tour of the county last month, Deputy President William Ruto announced that the government will deploy an extra 1,500 military and police officers to reinforce the operation.

On top of that, new vehicles for the police and armoured personnel carriers had been sent to the region by the national government.

“We have the 40 new police vehicles and more than 10 armoured personnel vehicles to strengthen security of this county. The aim is to subdue the enemy and ensure the environment is safe for our people and their property. Our officers will continue fighting Al-Shabaab and any other criminals until we finish all of them,” he said.

Mr Serian called for continued vigilance and urged the public to report any suspicious activity.