https://www.yahoo.com/news/mexicos-biggest-cartel-leaderless-drug-183000429.html
154
15
In mid-June, 150 armed men descended on a small community called La Tuna in the central highlands of Mexico's Sinaloa state, looting homes and leaving multiple people dead.

The gunmen, who are believed to have been affiliated with the Beltran Leyva Organization (BLO), also forced Consuelo Loera, the mother of Sinaloa cartel chief Joaquín "El Chapo" Guzmán, from her home.

It now appears that the attack on La Tuna was a jumping-off point for a clash of cartels that has caused violence to spike throughout much of Mexico and injected uncertainty into the future of one of the country's most powerful cartels.

The attack in La Tuna came about six months after Guzmán himself was recaptured in northwest Sinaloa state, six months after he pulled off his second jailbreak in July 2015.

The attack was also reportedly led by Alfredo Beltran Guzmán, "El Chapo" Guzmán's nephew and the oldest son of Alfredo Beltran Leyva, the imprisoned head of the BLO, which was allied with the Sinaloa cartel until internal suspicions sparked a bloody feud in 2008.

View photos el chapo home fixed More

In mid-August this year, the brief kidnapping of Guzmán's sons by elements of the Jalisco New Generation cartel (CJNG) underlined the growing rivalry between Mexico's two most powerful cartels.

It reportedly took the intervention of high-level cartel leaders and former leaders as well as the federal government to secure the release of the sons and avoid a larger war between the CJNG and the Sinaloa cartel. Even though they were returned unharmed a few days later, their abduction is an ominous sign for their father's cartel.

That kidnapping, according to Mexican journalist Anabel Hernandez, could be considered the first time we saw that Guzmán "no longer controls even his own house."

The events this summer, and recent attacks in and around Sinaloa state mean "maybe we are for the first time seeing the true fall of Chapo Guzmán with all the consequences that this may bring," Hernandez, an expert on Mexico's narco world, told Aristegui Noticias.

"And this is not a fall brought about by the government but by his own family," Hernandez added, referring to the involvement of Alfredo Beltran Guzmán.

According to Hernandez, Alfredo Beltran and the remnants of the BLO are allied with the ascendant CJNG, which is clashing with the Sinaloa cartel in several parts of the country, particularly on the west coast and in Tijuana in Baja California.

View photos DEA Map cartel territory in Mexico More

"Right now there's only two major drug cartels in Mexico: Sinaloa cartel, which ... remains the most powerful, and then the Jalisco New Generation cartel," Mike Vigil, a former head of international operations for the US Drug Enforcement Administration, told Business Insider. The CJNG emerged around 2010, originating from a cell of the Sinaloa cartel based in southwest Mexico around Jalisco state.

The CJNG has expanded rapidly, but most of its growth was initially in the southwest and southeast. As the cartel's ambitions have grown, however, it seems to have turned its sights on valuable territory held by the Sinaloa cartel.