http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/soldier-body-mutilated-army-revenge-loc/1/798326.html
152
15
Highlights 1 The soldier was killed on Friday evening, by terrorists who fled back to PoK.

2 BSF's retaliatory firing has inflicted heavy casualties on Pakistani Rangers.

3 Pakistan High Commissioner Abdul Basit has been summoned over the attacks.

After the body of an Indian soldier, killed in a gunfight in Jammu and Kashmir, was found mutilated, the Army has said that an "appropriate response" will be given.

The soldier was killed on Friday evening, by terrorists who fled back to Pakistani-administered Kashmir, under supporting fire cover by Pakistan Army. The army said a gunfight took place close to the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir's Machhil sector, in which one soldier and a terrorist were killed.

"In a despicable act, the terrorists mutilated the body of the Indian army soldier before fleeing into PoK. This barbarism is a true reflection which pervades official and non-official organisations across the border. This act will invite an appropriate response," Army said.

LATEST UPDATE



As per the latest reports, one BSF jawan has been martyred in Machil sector during ceasefire violation by Pakistan in Kupwara. The martyred soldier has been identified as Nitin Subhash who hailed from Maharashtra.



Also read: Exclusive: How India hit back after Pakistan's multiple ceasefire violations along LoC



PAKISTAN SUFFERS HEAVY DAMAGE



The attack came hours after the Border Security Force said 15 Pakistani soldiers had been killed in retaliatory firing by Indian troops after ceasefire violation along the international border in Jammu and Kashmir.

The BSF's retaliatory firing has inflicted heavy casualties on the Pakistani Rangers and damaged the neighbourhoods of Sialkot and Shakargarh across the border, images obtained exclusively by India Today reveal. According to top BSF sources, the Pakistani border guards have now been seeking immediate army support.

Pak did something similar in Kargil. Unfortunate we didn't rake this issue at UN- PKSehgal,Defence exp of terrorist mutilate soldier's body pic.twitter.com/Ue7ZkU8TN3 ; ANI (@ANI_news) October 29, 2016

Meanwhile, India has intensified the vigil along the borders over secret inputs that the Pakistani army was attempting to infiltrate terrorists around Diwali.

Also read: 15 Pakistan Rangers killed in retaliatory firing by Indian forces



The Army has briefed Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Defense Minister Manohar Parrikar and NSA chief Ajit Doval on Kupwara attack.



Meanwhile, Pakistan High Commissioner Abdul Basit has been summoned by Foreign Secretary S Jaishankar over the attack.