http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/delhi-police-high-alert-festive-season-terror-attack/1/784563.html
139
13
Highlights 1 Delhi Police are keeping a strict watch on religious institutions.

2 Intelligence agencies have warned that a terror attack is likely during festive season.

3 Police force and SWAT commandos have been deployed at places where the devout are gathering.

This festive season, Delhi Police are keeping a strict watch on religious institutions and isolated police stations that are on the radar of terror organisations. Intelligence agencies had recently alerted police about a possible terror attack during the festivities, said sources in Delhi Police.



INTELLIGENCE SAYS ATTACK LIKELY

The national Capital has been put on high alert after the Army's cross-border surgical strike. Security forces have been deployed in large numbers at railway and Metro stations, crowded markets and the busy Indira Gandhi International Airport. According to a specific input, terror groups are trying to target religious places, including Durga Puja venues.

They may also strike at police stations that are away from the city. The Delhi Police's elite Special Cell has issued an alert of a possible terror attack at places where a large number of people are expected to gather. With the ongoing Navratri and Durga Puja festivities, the national Capital has been put under tight security cover.

HIGH ALERT

Regular police force and teams of Special Weapons and Tactics (SWAT) commandos have been deployed at places where the devout lot are gathering. The police claim that apart from massive deployment, personnel in plain clothes have been deployed to mix with the crowd and keep an eye on any suspicious movement.

Considering the series of festivals - Durga Puja, Diwali, Chhat Puja and Muharram, local intelligence and preventive and precautionary measures have been beefed up. Sources said four teams of SWAT have been deployed at important locations that attract large crowds, including India Gate. Under security cover are areas like Red Fort, Jhandewalan Temple, Chhatarpur Temple, a chain of malls at Saket, IGI Airport, railway stations, Metro stations, ISBT, vital installations, markets, puja pandals and parking zones.

"Considering the sensitivity of the situation, 30 to 40 SWAT commandos have been kept on a standby," the source said. According to a highly-placed source, attempts of a Pathankot-like terror strike are also being made in Delhi, which can be carried out by a small group of terrorists. "A special drive is being conducted at the colonies of migrants to check the background of people who have recently shifted to the Capital. It is suspected that a fidayeen attack can be carried by a lone wolf. Informers at the ground level have been activated," a senior officer told Mail Today.



PREPAREDNESS

Security has been beefed up in sensitive zones and prominent establishments that may be targeted by suicide attackers. There is a high possibility that a spectacular attack could take place before the end of this year. "It is imperative for police to be prepared round the clock. It is also necessary to carry out mock drills to assess response time, status of weapons and equipment, mobility and coordination with the special forces," a senior officer said. "Various police stations like those in Jafarpur Kalan and Narela are situated at isolated areas. These stations do not have good connectivity with the main city but the staff have been briefed about possible attacks. We have prepared routes and plans to react to any terrorist attack," a senior officer said.

Security agencies have also enhanced vigil at the Indira Gandhi International Airport and urged flyers to cooperate. Civil airports in the western states and those in Delhi, Hyderabad and Bengaluru have been put on a high alert to tackle any possible attack or sabotage. The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), Delhi Police and Quick Response Teams have been deployed in crowded areas and have been asked to step up the vigil. "All security agencies, especially CISF and Delhi Police, which maintain the security of important institutions in Delhi, are in the highest state of alert," said a senior official. The chief of the CISF, which provides security cover to airports, had recently reviewed security of the IGI Airport. This week, a joint mock drill was carried out by the Delhi division of Northern Railway and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) near Hazrat Nizamuddin railway station. Delhi Police are also reviewing the security measures for VIPs. Senior officers say security audits are usually carried out before August 15 and January 26. But following the Uri attacks and because of the current festive season, it was thought necessary to review the arrangements.



ALSO READ:

Delhi put on high alert over possible terrorist attacks

False radiation alarm triggers panic at Delhi's IGI Airport

