http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/721916/Russian-diplomat-rules-out-Estonian-invasion-amidst-Cold-War-fears-Vladimir-Putin
154
15
GETTY The Russian official has claimed there will not be a repeat of Russia's annexing of Crimea

Alexander Petrov claimed the possibility of Putin invading the state, which is home to 1.3million people, "seems and entirely unrealistic scenario." Tensions between Moscow and the West escalated amid a dispute with Ukraine over Crimea, which Russia illegally annexed in 2014. However, according to the diplomat, a coup took place in Ukraine and Russia protected Crimea from an external threat.

He said: "The people of Crimea chose their own path and stated their will in a referendum." The UN declared a vote on the future of the region held in March 2014 completely invalid but Putin used masked troops to annex the territory, in violation of international law. Mr Petrov said he had no fear of the Estonian government being overthrown in a similar situation.

GETTY Russia sent in masked soldiers to take over Crimea despite being told it was illegal

GETTY The conflict with Ukraine saw Russia condemned by the UN

He said: "This belongs in the realm of fantasy. There are many things that can be discussed, but Estonia is a stable state with legitimate structures of power, and there are no preconditions whatsoever even for a discussion of the Crimean scenario being repeated." The eastern European state was once a part of the USSR but gained independence in 1991 after the collapse of the Soviet Union. Mr Petrov claimed Russia no longer viewed the country as a part of its empire. He said: "We emphatically oppose statements that [Estonia's] Russian-speaking population is a fifth column. We see in our dealings with their representatives that they are just as big patriots of Estonia, who live and work here and intend to continue doing so. We have not noticed separatist moods of any kind."

This belongs in the realm of fantasy Alexander Petrov, Russian ambassador to Estonia

The diplomat added that he did not believe Estonians perceived Russia as a threat. He said: "It's pure politics, which takes the bilateral relations on a side road and hinders their development." However, Mr Petrov's words will do little do dispel the growing unease over Russia's expansionist agenda.

GETTY Russian aggression has seen fears grow over another Cold War

GETTY Putin's expansionist agenda has put him on a war path with the rest of the world

Last week NATO stationed troops on the EU border - the largest military build-up in eastern Europe since the end of the Cold War. NATO's Jens Stoltenberg said: "Our greatest concern is connected to the fact that Russia is willing to use force against its neighbours, Ukraine, Crimea but also Georgia. "They also have troops in Moldova against the will of the Moldovan government. We see more assertive and stronger Russia that is willing to use force."

GETTY World leaders have mobilised to prepare for another Russian attack