http://www.taipeitimes.com/News/world/archives/2016/05/17/2003646477
154
15
AFP, HONG KONG

Paving stones in central Hong Kong have been glued down to prevent protesters using them as missiles, as authorities roll out elaborate security measures ahead of a high-level Chinese visit that could stoke resentment over Chinese rule.

The measures, which include barricades in the territory, come as Beijing tightens its grip on the semi-autonomous territory, where a fledgling independence movement in recent months has angered China. Running battles with police in February, which included “localist” protesters in favor of more autonomy for Hong Kong, saw demonstrators dig up bricks from the street and throw them at officers.

Glue has been poured into the cracks between paving stones near the harborfront convention center where China’s third-ranked Chinese Communist Party (CCP) leader Zhang Dejiang (張德江) is to speak at an economic conference tomorrow.

Explaining the decision to glue the pavement, the Hong Kong Highways Department said they might be “subject to vandalism.”

Zhang is the most senior official to visit Hong Kong in four years in a trip seen as an attempt to ease tensions and gauge the political temperature — he is to meet with a group of pro-democracy legislators during his visit.

However, some activists have voiced fury over the ensuing security clampdown, with water-filled plastic barricades and metal fencing cordoning off central roads and flyovers.

“Keeping protesters away is ... ridiculous. It makes you feel like you are in North Korea,” said Sham Tsz-kit of the Civil Human Rights Front, which organizes Hong Kong’s annual July 1 political rally, where residents air their grievances against the government.

“Zhang Dejiang is coming here to understand the situation in Hong Kong, but now his eyesight will be completely blocked,” Sham said.

The group said activists would “proactively get close to the convention center,” despite a no-protest security zone set up by police.

Police have termed the security moves “counter-terrorism measures.”

“The security threat is higher than the past,” said a police source. “Activists have become more violent.”

Frustrations have grown among young activists since largely peaceful mass pro-democracy rallies in 2014 failed to bring political reform.

Some activists have said that they would not stop at violence to force change.

Zhang’s visit is also expected to help Beijing assess whether unpopular Hong Kong Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying (梁振英) is a viable candidate for a second term — his current term ends in March next year. Hong Kong is semi-autonomous after being handed back by Britain to China in 1997 and enjoys freedoms unseen in China, but there are growing fears those freedoms are being eroded by Beijing. The disappearance last year of five Hong Kong men connected to a publisher and a bookstore known for publishing salacious titles on Chinese political leaders tapped those deep-seated concerns. All five men resurfaced in China, where four are facing criminal investigation.