http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/varanasi/Communal-clash-leaves-two-SPs-SDM-injured/articleshow/52286829.cms
151
15
Varanasi: Tension gripped Khudadadpur and adjoining localities in Nizamabad area of Azamgarh district after members of two communities clashed on Saturday night. Violence continued throughout the night and the situation was brought under control by Sunday morning.A circle officer suffered bullet injuries while two SPs, an SDM and many policemen were also injured. Two companies of PAC and heavy police force was deployed there.According to Azamgarh police, there was enmity between one Musafir and Danish of Khudadadpur. Some days back, Musafir was allegedly attacked by Danish, after which police intervention was sought. Suspecting that some persons had gathered at Musafir's house to attack him, Danish and supporters of his community attacked the former's house on Saturday night. The assailants set the house of Musafir ablaze.The people of the two communities then came on roads and started throwing stones on each other. Though police were deployed but the strength proved insufficient to bring the situation under control.Violence spread in neighbouring Daudpur, Sanjarpur, Faridabad and Vangao areas before SP Dayanand Mishra and SP city Vipin Tada could reach there with heavy police. Mob attacked many vehicles and some groups also tried to torch houses.Mishra, Tada, SDM Nizamabad Anil Kumar Singh, a tehsildar and two police constables suffered injuries. Mischievous elements also opened fire from roof.CO City KK Saroj suffered bullet injuries on his hand and admitted at the district hospital. The police used force and also tear gas shells to bring the situation under control.The situation could be brought under control by Sunday morning. An FIR had been lodged against identified assailants and rioters on the complaints of Musafir and CO city. Many people had also been detained. Peace meetings had also been convened by police.Divisional commissioner R P Goswami and district magistrate Suhas LY reached the spot immediately after the incident. IG Varanasi zone S K Bhagat visited there on Sunday to take stock of the situation.