http://www.whio.com/news/local/year-old-man-sentenced-for-sexually-assaulting-year-old-girl/08IQ8megWQGk8L9CaEfgZL/
180
18
Updated: Friday, November 04, 2016 @ 9:02 AM

By: Nancy Bowman, Contributing Writer

An error in the Troy recreation levy issue wording on the Nov. 8 ballot means it would generate, if approved, a “significant” amount less than the targeted $1 million a year for 10 years.

A voter pointed out the apparent error in placement of a decimal point to the Miami County Board of Elections Office on Wednesday, the Board of Elections was told Thursday.

The error was confirmed by the Miami County Auditor’s Office, said Eric Morgan, deputy elections director.

The city was notified of the issue during Thursday afternoon’s election board meeting. At the same time, the Ohio Secretary of State’s Office was contacted for advice on what steps should now be taken.

The amount of the millage listed on the ballot is what the city would receive, if the issue is approved.

Morgan said the county auditor approved for the city 2.01 mills, but the city “transposed a decimal point” and listed 0.201 mills.

Board member Jose Lopez told Troy Law Director Grant Kerber, who came to the meeting after being notified, that the levy as now proposed would generate 2 cents per $100 valuation instead of 20 cents.

“It is significant,” Lopez said. “If it passes, it is not going to generate near the money you guys thought it was going to generate.”

Election administrators said ballot language is provided to the elections office by the party proposing a request. Before the ballot is finalized, those seeking a levy verify the wording, election board members said.

Morgan talked to the Secretary of State’s Office about what should be done with the election days away.

“With their resolution (the city) and their ballot language, it is their mistake so their law director has to get with our legal counsel to come up with a solution, if there is any. If not, the city will figure out what to do after the election,” Morgan said.

The board is represented by the county prosecutor’s office.

“I haven’t even had a chance to look at it,” Kerber told the board after being handed paperwork associated with the apparent error. “I cannot make any commitment without learning more about what the identified issue is.”

Patrick Titterington, city service and safety director, said he needed more information before being able to comment.

City council voted earlier this year to place the levy on the ballot, at the request of the Operation Recreation Committee, a group of community organizations offering recreation activities.

The group has pledged to raise another $4 million from the private sector to help pay for proposed projects that include baseball and soccer fields; Senior Citizens Center improvements; and clubhouse renovations and a driving range at the Miami Shores Golf Course.