http://www.india.com/news/world/kabul-shia-shrine-attacked-on-muharram-ashura-8-dead-more-than-30-injured-gunmen-take-hostages-1551081/
1831
18
Kabul, Oct 11: Terror attack was reported from Kabul in Afghanistan in Tuesday night. Terrorists attacked a shia shrine in the city. The terror strike was carried out on the eve of Ashura, the 10th and most sacred date of Islamic month of Muharram. At least 14 people are dead. More than 30 are injured. Several rounds of gunfire and explosions were heard. The deceased are members of minority Shia community. Although no official confirmation has been made yet, but the attack is expected to be carried out by Sunni extremist group Taliban. Ever since the death of its leader Mullah Omar, Taliban has upscaled its insurgent activists, targeting mainly the Shia and Hazara minorities, along with the Afghan army.

Afghan Interior Ministry has confirmed that 3 gunmen had entered into the site and launched the terror attack against the Shia worshippers. According to US Embassy in Kabul, the gunmen were holding hostages at the Shia shrine. Compartments of Afghan police were rushed to the site of terror attack. Nearly an hour after the terror attack, Afghan police confirmed that all the three terrorists have been killed.

BREAKING: Afghan Interior Ministry says 3 gunmen have attacked a Shiite shrine in Kabul, taking an unknown number of hostages. — The Associated Press (@AP) October 11, 2016

#KabulAttack – MoI spokesman says attack at shrine is over, last attacker killed by police #Afghanistan: Afghan Media — ANI (@ANI_news) October 11, 2016

An online report has quoted Afghan channel Tolo News to claim that two gunmen were neutralised, whereas, the other fidayeen blew up himself by triggering the suicide bomb.

Number of ambulances have been lined up outside the shrine to rush the victims to hospitals. The number of injured people is expected to escalate. Hundreds of Shias were present at the shrine at the time of attack. The number of worshippers inside the Shia mosques and shrines has swelled up this year as the Ashraf Ghani government has urged the community to refrain from taking out massive rallies of Muharram as they could be targeted by Taliban terrorists. (ALSO READ: Hunted Hazaras travel ‘Death Road’ through Afghanistan)

Although precautionary measures were enacted by Afghan government in the aftermath of the terror attack on Hazara community in July this year, terrorists have succeeded in attacking the minorities in Afghanistan.

(Image source: 1tvnews.af)