https://in.news.yahoo.com/entire-kashmir-ours-including-gilgit-baltistan-asserts-mohan-050648237.html
130
13
RSS spokesperson Mahendra Singhal said that nearly 10,000 members of the RSS will participate in the Path-Sanchalan in Jaipur.

Nagpur [India], Oct. 11 (ANI): Asserting that Pakistan was the key element behind instigating violence in the Valley, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) Chief Mohan Bhagawat on Tuesday sent a message to the hostile neighbour that Kashmir is an integral part of India and so is Gilgit-Baltistan.

Addressing the RSS cadres who were sporting full pants, as the Sangh officially cast away its trademark khaki shorts, Bhagwat stated that the unrest in Kashmir is being induced from across the LoC and it is a fact not hidden from anyone and the whole world knows.

"The country is growing. There are some countries in the world who don't want to see India progress. They at times get support from people within. Kashmir is a serious concern. The commitment of our government is clear that Kashmir is an integral part of India and so is Gilgit-Baltistan," he said in his annual Vijayadashami speech at the Reshimbagh Ground here.

Emphasising that a large part of Kashmir is free of tension and violence, he called on the nation and the government to act against those indulging in this violence

Calling on ensuring that justice is delivered to the displaced Kashmiri Pandits, Bhagwat further said that forces across the border are encouraging separatist forces in Kashmir.

The RSS chief also heaped praises on the Indian Army for the recent surgical strike in Pakistan occupied Kashmir, saying that India's reputation in the world has gone up because of what our Army did and lauder the Centre and defence personnel.

"The administrative leadership has done a commendable job. We must manage our borders very well. Some separatist forces create trouble in border states. But he way our government has dealt with the whole issue post Uri is a matter of great pride," he said.

However, he warned political parties not to cross limits while playing politics and said, "Make sure people are not pitted against each other." (ANI)