http://indianexpress.com/article/india/india-news-india/palwal-womans-plan-to-avenge-broken-heart-blow-up-ex-boyfriend-to-pieces-3077720/
180
18
A member of the bomb squad at Shamshabad Colony Tuesday. (Express Photo: Manoj Kumar) A member of the bomb squad at Shamshabad Colony Tuesday. (Express Photo: Manoj Kumar)

A 35-year-old woman in Haryana’s Palwal district decided to avenge her broken heart in an unconventional way. She allegedly concocted a plan to blow up her ex-boyfriend with home-made bombs, three of them.

According to police, Aarti asked another ex-boyfriend, Pradeep alias Daroga, to help her execute the plan. The duo allegedly put together the three bombs using firecracker powder, nails, glass and stones.

It was while they were questioning Aarti and Pradeep about another murder, which the duo allegedly committed earlier this month, that police came to know about their plan to kill Aarti’s ex-boyfriend.

They told police that they had hidden the bombs in a house in Shamshabad Colony, where Aarti’s friend lives on rent. The friend had no clue about their plan as they had hidden the bombs inside some luggage. “We found three bombs hidden inside the house, and defused them within three to four hours. They were desi bombs, similar to a grenade, which explode on impact after hitting a surface,” said Sub-Inspector Abbas Khan, in-charge of crime investigation agency, Hodal.

The two accused told police that they had assembled the bombs 15 days ago.

“One of Pradeep’s friends had a licence to manufacture firecrackers. He spent a lot of time observing his friend put together firecrackers… and figured out how to assemble a bomb,” said Khan. Police are trying to find out where the duo managed to procure the rest of the ingredients from.

Aarti had met Rakesh, the target of the planned attack, in 2010, said police. Rakesh had left his wife and three children, and started living with her.

After being with Aarti for almost six years, Rakesh decided to leave her and go back to his wife and children, said police. Rakesh did so at the behest of Babu Lal, a distant relative, who had helped him reconcile with his wife.

According to police, Aarti held Babu Lal responsible for the end of her relationship with Rakesh. With Pradeep’s help, she allegedly killed the 65-year-old Babu Lal on October 3 by slitting his throat, said police.

Babu Lal’s body was found near a tubewell in a field in Gulabad village; he had been gagged and bound with a rope.

His neighbour Dharam Pal, who was the last person to be seen with him, was found unconscious a few metres away. Dharam Pal told police that Aarti and Pradeep had killed Babu Lal, and the duo was arrested Sunday from Aarti’s sister’s house in Kosi.

“During questioning, they revealed that they had murdered Babu Lal as Aarti blamed him for the end of her relationship. They offered both Dharam Pal and Babu Lal a drink laced with sleeping pills. After the two fell unconscious, they slit Lal’s throat and fled the spot,” said Sher Singh, PRO of Palwal Police.

While they were being questioned about Babu Lal’s murder, Aarti and Pradeep told police about the three bombs they had assembled to target Rakesh. They planned to throw the bombs inside Rakesh’s residence and kill him, said police.

Not the first time they have been accused of a crime

Pradeep and Aarti first met almost a decade ago, after the latter got married to Pradeep’s neighbour Kanhaiya Lal in Uttar Pradesh’s Aligarh district, said police. The two struck up a friendship which soon turned into an affair, and Aarti eventually left her husband for Pradeep, said police.

Aarti and Pradeep ended their relationship after a few years, and she met Rakesh soon after that, added police.

Pradeep has as many as 13 cases registered against him in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, and is facing multiple charges of murder, attempted murder and robbery.

He and his associates have been accused of kidnapping and murdering a doctor from Ghaziabad in January. They had kidnapped the doctor, held him captive at a location in Shikohabad village for days, before shooting him dead and dumping his body in a river, said police.

Aarti was also named as an accused in one of the murders committed by Pradeep, said police.“A few years ago, the duo was accused of a murder in Aligarh… Pradeep was sentenced to life for the crime. He appealed against the conviction… Pradeep was out on bail when he and Aarti murdered Babu Lal,” said SI Abbas Khan.