http://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/girl-star-michelle-keegan-believes-8851840
182
18
Michelle Keegan believes Our Girl has cured her fear of heights.

The 29-year-old actress - who portrays Lance Corporal Georgie Lane in the BBC One army drama - was forced to go up in a helicopter in the second episode of the new series and, despite her initial nerves, she now has a new hunger for daring drops.

Speaking during a Facebook Live chat, Michelle told Woman magazine: "We did (film) the helicopter (scenes) in the air, we were harnessed in and I'm actually quite scared of heights but I think after this I was fine with them. I wanted to go back up again."

Video loading Watch next Watch this video again Watch Next Click to play Tap to play The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

BBC Keegan is Georgie Lane

Viewers watched anxiously through their hands during Wednesday's episode when the former Coronation Street star’s alter ego was dramatically rescued by the British Special Forces after she was taken hostage by the Taliban last week.

Michelle said, although she was in awe of her stunt double, she wanted to do all her own manoeuvres - among which viewers saw her violently dragged off a truck during Georgie's kidnapping.

She said: "A lot of the time I wanted to go right up in to the helicopter but they would only let me go halfway, I just wanted to do it all...I love them (action roles).

Video loading Click to play Tap to play The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

"I've got stuck in so much, a lot of the time they said 'oh you're not allowed to do this, don't do that,' but I wanted to do all of the stunts. All the dragging out the car was me, I was padded up."

Filming for the drama in South Africa meant Michelle was working 14-hour days but that hasn't put her off from other action roles and she now has her eye on a future James Bond movie.