http://www.timeslive.co.za/thetimes/2016/08/30/Nine-teachers-in-sex-scandals
180
18
One of the teachers appeared in Nquthu Magistrate's Court yesterday on two counts of rape, two counts of sexual grooming and one of sexual assault.

A video allegedly shows the teacher and three females, said to be pupils, having sex. The teacher went into hiding after the video went viral. He handed himself over to police in Durban on Sunday.

Police spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane said the suspect was remanded in custody until his bail application on September 7.

After a visit to the school by KwaZulu-Natal education MEC Mthandeni Dlungwane, more girls have come forward, claiming the teacher had sex with them, too.

A Sunday Times report said one of the women in the video , a 27-year-old, said although she was not a pupil at the time the video was made, her relationship with the teacher had started while she was at school.

"I was shocked when I learnt about the video and I watched it a little bit. I didn't know that he was taking a video of us having sex," she said. The video appears to have been shot on a cellphone.

Another video, which also appears to have been filmed by the teacher holding the phone in one hand, shows him having sex with a pregnant woman. A lawyer representing the teacher has previously denied in media reports that the videos portrayed schoolgirls, saying the women were adults. The SA Council of Educators is investigating claims that the teacher was accused previously of the same offences at another school in Nquthu. Four more teachers from the same high school were suspended also for allegedly having sex with pupils.

On Friday three teachers at different schools in the province were dismissed by the education department for allegedly having sexual relationships with pupils.

Another teacher from a high school in Nongoma, in northern KwaZulu-Natal, is on the run. He is alleged to have sexually harassed pupils. He has not been suspended as he has not been at the school since Friday.

Since June, the MEC's appeals committee has presided over and adjudicated 12 cases of alleged sexual relationship and sexual assault. All appeals have been recommended for dismissal.