http://thenationonlineng.net/customs-arrests-14/
130
13
• Rice, others seized

The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Federal Operations Unit, Zone ‘A’ Ikeja, Lagos has arrested 14 suspected smugglers and seized 2,513 50kg bags of rice and 3,778 cartons of imported frozen poultry products.

Its Area Controller, Umar Mohammed Dahiru, said officers of the unit also recovered unpaid duties of N30,154,174.75 from vehicles and other goods on which their owners made false declaration and undervalued.

Other items seized by the unit included 528 kegs of vegetable oil valued at N4,711,500; seven different types of vehicles worth N14,310,000 and other items which included new and used textiles material, shoes, bags, used tyres, mosquito insecticide, soaps, compressors and Bonita spaghetti worth N45,789,450.

The Duty Paid Value (DPV) of all items seized in the month of September was put at N131,708,247.

According to Dahiru, about 98 seizures were recorded by the unit last month.

Commending the officers for their patriotism, he said the unit had all it takes to suppress smuggling within his areas of jurisdiction.

To sustain the tempo, Dahiru directed his operatives to intensify border patrols.

He warned smugglers to desist from the act because the unit had deployed strategies that would cause them losses.

He added the suspects would be charged to court after thorough investigation.

Also, the Customs at the Tin-Can Island Port generated N25.6 billion last month, its Area Controller, Bashar Yusuf, has said.

He noted that it was possible because of the measures introduced to strengthen their operations, particularly to block leakages.

Yusuf, apart from involving stakeholders in the training to sanitise the system and change the orientation of those who believe in shortchanging the government, has also engaged his officers in capacity building in modern Customs operations.

Its Public Relation Officer, Uche Ejesieme told The Nation that the Controller was determined to make the Tin-Can Port a hub, with the entrenchment of due diligence in operations.

Yusuf also said the place of Customs in national development could not be overemphasised, and pointed out that his Command would not renege on its revenue collection function.

He called for stronger relations between the Command and stakeholders for the actualisation of its mandate.

“Beyond the fact that we have regular meetings with the critical stakeholders, I have always given the terminal/sectional heads a marching order to ensure that all importers/and their agents are compelled to comply with the extant laws on international trade,” he said.

He commended compliant importers and clearing agents for their patriotism, which, he said, contributed immensely to the revenue profile of the Command.

He said the importers and their agents would continue to receive the support of the Command.

“We will always make them feel obligated to follow due diligence/process in their transactions,” he said.