http://www.standardmedia.co.ke/ureport/story/2000212920/kenyans-attitude-towards-rape-culture-after-what-trended-on-twitter-last-week-is-shocking
181
18
As I left church on Sunday afternoon, I decided to go through my Twitter feed to see what had been trending this weekend. Hash tag here and hash tag there, I stumbled upon a thread by a certain young lady. The thread was saddening to say the least. A ‘tweep’ and two other ladies happened to go to a man’s penthouse on Saturday night to celebrate the birthday of one of the girls. Drinks were catered to by the owner of the penthouse, a rich male in his 30’s. One of the girls did not drink as much as her friends but just had a bit of wine offered to her by the host. Let us call this girl ‘Girl X’. The girls decided to hit the town in Westlands and the host suggested otherwise. He wanted the ladies to stay indoors, especially the girl who had drunk some wine. To his dismay, they left. At the club, Girl X could barely stand and blacked out. Keep in mind that this is the girl who barely had much to drink. Long story short, the male allegedly drugged the girl by putting a ‘mchele’ in her wine. This shocked me greatly, as I am also a girl who is in her early 20’s that goes out once in a while. The most shocking part was actually the comments on the Twitter thread I read this story on. People claimed that if Girl X loved the Lord this would have not happened, if a man buys you drinks you owe him and that house parties are the worst. Kenyans attitude towards rape culture is saddening to say the least. Below is a short list of 4 things I have to say about this incident and rape culture:

Buying a girl a drink does not guarantee a man anything

Men in Kenya today are acting as though a night with a woman is the equivalent of two mojito cocktails. A woman can spare Ksh 800 out of her own budget to buy her own drink if need be. Buying her a drink does not guarantee that she will have sex with you. This belief of ‘nipe nikupe’ has disgustingly become the norm and needs to stop.

2. Nobody can be trusted

People threw insults to the girls for going to a man’s house at night (despite the fact that this man was well known to them) Strangers can be murderers, your best friend can be a rapist. Even your former Sunday school teacher could be a thief in the pitch black of night when church service is not in session. Never judge a book by its cover. Always have your guard up despite being at the club with close friends or at a friend’s house. Fathers have raped their daughters in the past. Trust nobody but you or else you will be a ‘mchele’ victim too. Games of Thrones episodes have taught me that you can trust nobody in this world.

3. Do not blame the victim

In cases of a woman’s rape, people are often quick to ask questions like ‘What was she wearing?’, ‘Was she drunk?’, ‘Who was she with?’, ‘Was it late at night?’ It is not the victim’s fault that she was raped. It is the rapist’s fault. I am not justifying careless behavior with this statement. Women and men alike should always be cautious and avoid risky situations. In the case that rape happens, understand that the victim is traumatized and stop being judgmental.

4. Always look out for each other

Girl X could have been a rape victim now if she was not taken care of by the girls she was with. If you are at a club and see a lady put drugs in a man’s drink, go up to him and tell him even if he may not believe you. Tell your friend to pour out her drink if she left it on the table alone after going to the bathroom. Give your friend water if they are drinking too much or already drunk on a night out. This culture will make Nairobi a safer place. Once you get back home after a night out, always ask your friends if they got back home safely too.