http://www.vanguardngr.com/2016/09/shekau-insane-unstable-army-spokesman/
181
18
The leader of Boko Haram sect, Abubakar Shekau, has released a new video disputing the military’s claim that he was killed or wounded by Nigerian soldiers.

The 39-minute video posted on YouTube showed Shekau, flanked by two gun-wielding Boko Haram members, speaking on the group’s activities.

In the video, Shekau spoke extensively in Arabic and also in Hausa, Kanuri, and English.

In August, the Islamic State, which Shekau had initially pledged allegiance to, announced it had removed him as leader and appointed Abu Musab al-Barnawi as his replacement; a move Shekau rejected.

Al-Barnawi is the son of the late Boko Haram founder, Muhammed Yusuf.

The video, posted on Saturday, is the latest in a series of latest videos by Shekau’s faction of the terror group which activities had caused the death of over 20,000 people, displaced over 1 million children and killed over 600 teachers, according to the United Nations.

If you want your girls, bring back our brethren, Shekau, Boko Haram leader tells FG

Last month, the Boko Haram released a video indicating a willingness for a prisoner swap with the Federal Government.

The government had since confirmed its willingness to negotiate the swap but said it would only do so in negotiation with the real leaders of the group.

Reacting to the video last night, the Nigerian Army in a statement by Acting Director of Public Relations, Colonel Sani Usman, described Shekau as insane and unstable.

‘’The video has shown beyond all reasonable doubt the earlier suspicion that the purported factional terrorists group leader is mentally sick and unstable. The ranting is also another sign that the end is near for him which is part of the signs of all wicked people.’’

A similar prisoner swap in July of last year failed because the sect made more demands after an agreement had been reached, the Information Minister, Lai Mohammed, said.

Last week, President Muhammadu Buharí asked the United Nations to mediate talks with the group on the release of the over 200 Chibok school girls abducted in 2014.