http://www.vanguardngr.com/2016/10/buhari-chibok-girls-worst-daysre/
182
18
By Levinus Nwabughiogwu

ABUJA—In a voice laden with emotions, President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday in Abuja, said abducted Chibok girls have seen the worst of things the world had to offer.

The President spoke while formally receiving the released 21 of the over 200 girls at the presidential Villa, Abuja.

It will be recalled that the girls were abducted from their school dormitory at Chibok, Borno State, on April 14, 2014, and had been in the custody of Boko Haram insurgents in the North East.

Recalling the horrible experience the girls had passed through in over 2 years in the hands of the insurgents, the President, however, said the worst days were over, promising a new dawn for the girls

He said: “My dear children, this is a happy moment for me and for all Nigerians. I welcome you back to freedom. It is a moment your parents, the nation and the international community have been eagerly waiting for, since your abduction on April 14, 2014.

“We must from the onset, thank Almighty God for this day, that 21 of the Chibok girls have again breathed air of freedom and are reunited with their parents. We are equally prayerful, that God in his infinite mercies and benevolence, will see to it that the girls remaining in captivity will be freed and returned to us soonest.

“All Nigerians recall, sadly the night of April 14, 2014, 276 young female Nigerian students were abducted from Government Secondary School, Chibok, Borno State, by Boko Haram.

“Fortunately, 57 of the kidnapped school girls were able to escape, leaving 219 in captivity. One of the abducted girls, Amina Ali, was found in May 2016 and today, we are here celebrating the freedom and return of another 21 girls that regained freedom on Thursday October 13.

“We are equally as hopeful as we are praying, that the remaining girls will be freed and returned to us without further delay.

“These 21 girls will be given adequate and comprehensive medical, nutritional and psychological care and support. The Federal Government will rehabilitate them, and ensure that their reintegration back to the society is done as quickly as possible.

“Aside from rescuing them, we are assuming responsibility for their personal, educational and professional goals and ambitions in life. Obviously, it is not late for the girls to go back to school and continue the pursuit of their studies.

“These dear daughters of ours have seen the worst that the world has to offer. It is now time for them to experience the best that the world can do for them. The government and all Nigerians must encourage them to achieve their desired ambitions”.

The president also revealed that the girls’ release was a product of series of negotiations among the government, Boko Haram and some international agencies.

“The release of these 21 girls followed a series of negotiations between Government and the Boko Haram group, brokered by our friends, both local and international. Since this Administration assumed office, we have been working towards the safe release of the girls.

“The Nigerian DSS, Military and other security agencies have spared no effort to secure our girls. These 21 girls are the manifestation of our doggedness and commitments to the release and return of the Chibok girls”, he said.

The president also pledged a renewed effort that would see to the return of the remaining girls, while thanking their parents for their patience and understanding.

“While joining their parents to rejoice and praise the Almighty, we shall redouble efforts to ensure that we fulfill our pledge of bringing the remaining girls back home. Already, the credible first step has been taken and government will sustain the effort until all the remaining girls return safely.

“The Federal Government appreciates the patience and understanding of the parents of all the abducted Chibok girls. We equally thank Nigerians and the International Community for their support and prayers, and for never losing confidence in our ability to secure the safe release of our girls,’’ he said.

Chibok LG chairman

Also speaking, chairman of Chibok Local Government Area and the representative of the girls’ parents, Mr. Ya’aga Yarakuwu, expressed gratitude to the President and the Nigerian security apparatus for ensuring the safe return of the girls.

While highlighting the challenges bedeviling the community which he said included lack of roads and schools, Yarakuwa also appealed to the President to come to the aid of the community, asking for deployment of more security personnel to the area.

He said: “Mr. President, as these girls have regained their freedom under your custody, the girls and their parents, we sat down two days ago and discussed that they don’t mind staying with the government for their security sake. They can be enrolled in schools in any part of the world.’

“On behalf of the parents, I am assuring you that total support will be given to the government in the provision of anything for this girls.

“Mr. President, we still have very big problem in Chibok area. Even yesterday, one village was attacked. We still want more security enforcement and military men to be deployed to the area. We saw Amina yesterday. We are grateful for the condition we saw Amina.

‘’In Chibok, we lack roads, portable water, schools. The only school we have is the secondary school where these were abducted. Had it been that you didn’t come on board, that school would not have been given the directive to be constructed. But we want the federal government to urgently complete the school for the others to go school.’’

One of the girls, Miss Rebecca Manu, who spoke on behalf of others, thank God and the President for their safe return.

“We are happy for seeing this wonderful day because we didn’t know that we’ll ever come back. Let us thank God for His love. Let us pray for the rest of the girls in Sambisa forest now,’’ she said.

Speaking to Vanguard, the member representing Chibok community in the House of Representatives, Hon. Asabe Vilita also appreciated God and the President for fulfilling his promise.

Before formally calling attendance of the girls and presenting them to the President, the Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, recalled that last week was very emotional for them as they received the girls upon their return.