http://www.timeslive.co.za/sundaytimes/stnews/international/2016/09/18/MDC-Militias-fired-bullets-at-demonstrators
138
13
Opposition parties had defied a police ban on protests and taken to the streets as part of a wider bid to exert pressure on President Robert Mugabe to accede to electoral reforms.

Opposition political parties have grouped together under the National Electoral Reform Agenda to press for the implementation of electoral reforms in the country ahead of its 2018 election.

Authorities invoked a ban on protests in Harare's CBD until October 16, after violence erupted there last month.

The opposition, lawyers and human rights defenders have said the police ban violated the constitution, which allows citizens to stage protests.

Douglas Mwonzora, secretary-general of the MDC and NERA spokesman, told the Sunday Times yesterday that the police, with the help of Zanu-PF militias, had disrupted the peaceful demonstrations.

"Live bullets were fired at protesters in Kuwadzana by persons using a South African-registered vehicle.

"These were Zanu-PF militias deployed across the country to disrupt the demonstration," said Mwonzora.

"Also in Kambuzuma and Mufakose I can confirm that two people were injured. Some of these were Zanu-PF militia wearing police uniforms and we have identified them."

Nelson Chamisa, the MP for the Kuwadzana constituency, took to social media to give an update on the violence in his constituency. "Kuwadzana unnecessarily turned into a war zone as police misstep to violate citizens' rights," he said.

Mwonzora said Ronia Bunjira, the MDC's legislator for the Harare metropolitan province, and members of her family had also been arrested by police.

"No charges have yet been placed on them. About 30 MDC members have been arrested across the country and 12 people were abducted from Kuwadzana. Those that are being held by the police are being held incommunicado, and that is against the constitution," he said.

Mugabe last month warned that he would not allow protesters to stage an Arab Spring-like uprising. He has pointed a finger at Western countries for being behind the wave of unrest that has swept the country since June.