http://www.iol.co.za/dailynews/news/ukzn-says-student-was-sexually-assaulted-not-raped-2067216
180
18
The police also issued a strongly-worded statement denying that a case of rape had been opened, but said they had knowledge of a case of sexual assault reported.

Durban - A University of KwaZulu-Natal student, allegedly sexually violated by a police officer during last week’s student protests at the Pietermaritzburg campus, was not raped but sexually assaulted, the university said.

A UKZN lecturer, Pumelela Nqelenga, blew the lid on the alleged rape last week when she posted on Facebook about how a female student had told her she was raped on campus by a police officer.

In a separate incident, where a case of sexual assault is being investigated by the police, two police officers are being investigated for arresting a student - who had been walking to her residence from a supermarket - and for touching her and fondling her private parts.

Pietermaritzburg SRC president, Siphelele Nguse, said there were two separate incidents an alleged rape of a 22-year-old which had not been reported and the sexual assault.

He said the fact that the rape had not been reported to the police did not mean that the rape did not happen.

“We have a problem about how the university has responded to the matter of the rape and sexual assault. They want to distance themselves and say it happened outside.

“The fact that there is no case opened does not mean the rape did not happen, and it is not surprising that there is no case when police shoot innocent students with rubber bullets and tear gas.

“The university should be worried that there is no case opened, they should not be celebrating that there is no case,” he said.

Last week, staff and students marched to a Pietermaritzburg police station wearing black, protesting against the alleged rape incident and police brutality in clashes between the police and students during the protests.

Vice-chancellor, Dr Albert van Jaarsveld, said on Sunday the university was declaring the “disinformation that is being circulated on social media” to be false.

“The university has received a report from a student on the Pietermaritzburg campus of a case of sexual assault by a SAPS officer. The alleged incident is reported to have happened off-campus near Checkers on Durban Road on (last) Monday,” he said.

“There has been no report of rape on any of our campuses. The student has informed us that she has laid a charge of sexual assault with the SAPS. The university condemns violence against women in all its forms, including physical, sexual and psychological. Rape and sexual abuse are a grave violation of women’s human rights and are never justified,” said Van Jaarsveld.

The university denied any knowledge of the rape case.

Nguse said the student had reported the rape to the universities Risk Management Service and eventually walked away without being helped.

Likewise, the police issued a statement dismissing claims of rape against a police officer.

Police spokesman, Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane, said: “No report of a rape has been received. We acknowledge that a student in Pietermaritzburg did report a case of sexual assault which occurred while students were being pushed back by police and the matter is currently receiving attention.”

UKZN spokesman, Lesiba Seshoka, said the university was being unfairly painted as uncaring.

“It is the student who said to us, I have not been raped’, she was even getting angry. She said to us, go to the police station; I have opened a case of sexual assault because I feel my rights have been violated’.

“We are now seen as being defensive and not caring, that is not true, we cannot agree with you when you say it was rape when it is not,” said Seshoka.

@SihleSays