http://www.dailymail.co.uk/wires/afp/article-3749560/DR-Congo-vows-free-prominent-political-prisoners.html
181
18
DR Congo vows to free prominent political prisoners

The government of the Democratic Republic of Congo on Friday vowed to release two dozen "political prisoners and prisoners of conscience", including two prominent detainees who were arrested last year during a workshop on good governance in Africa.

Fred Bauma, 26, is a member of the LUCHA or Struggle for Change pro-democracy movement, which is based in Goma, in the restive North Kivu province in the east of DR Congo.

Yves Makwambala, 33, who is from Kinshasa, works with the Filimbi civil society group that organised the good governance workshop.

Fred Bauma form the Conglese Lucha movement speaks during a press conference in Kinshasa on March 15, 2015 ©Federico Scoppa (AFP/File)

They were arrested on March 15, 2015.

Theirs were among 24 names of "people who should be freed or released on bail", according to a list signed by DR Congo's Justice Minister Alexis Thambwe Mwamba.

Accused of "inciting revolt" against President Joseph Kabila, Bauma and Makwambala were jailed in Kinshasa amid a crackdown on dissent, though their trial has now been stalled for several weeks.

On a visit to Goma this week, Kabila met LUCHA activists who demanded that the government ease its restrictions on political activity.

Kabila said he would have an answer within 48 hours.

The president visited Goma just after several dozen people were hacked to death in the town of Beni, also in North Kivu province, last weekend.

Deadly protests erupted in Beni, the site of the massacre, with angry residents accusing the government of failing to secure the area.

- 'Ease tensions' -

Justice Minister Thambwe on Friday told reporters in Kinshasa the detainees' release was a condition set by the opposition to "ease political tensions" in the country ahead of an "inclusive national dialogue".

Thambwe added that the aim of the slated talks was to pave the way for elections, with Kabila's term expiring in December.

Human rights activist Christopher Ngoy, held since January 2015, should also be released.

The list of those set for release was given to the government on August 4 by the European Union's delegation in DR Congo, Thambwe said.

All but two of the people on the original list would be freed, he said. Those who would be kept behind bars are accused of rape and fraud.

The minister also mentioned former minister Eugene Diomi Ndogala, arrested in 2014, and Jean-Claude Muyambo, who leads a small opposition movement and who was detained during a protest in January 2015.

Political tensions have soared in DR Congo as President Joseph Kabila nears the end of his term after 15 years in power.