http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/delhi/Autorickshaw-taxi-unions-call-off-strike-in-Delhi/articleshow/53440264.cms
130
13
New Delhi, Jul 28 () The autorickshaw and taxi unions today called off their three-day-long strike after the Delhi government assured them that most of their demands, including bringing a new policy for app-based cab services in the national capital, will be fulfilled.

The announcement was made this evening after representatives of autorickshaw and taxi unions met Delhi Transport Minister Satyendar Jain to discuss their demands.

Rajendra Soni, a member of Joint Action Committee (JAC) formed by 20 auto and taxi unions, said, "The government has given a written assurance to fulfil our demands."

"The government has assured us that it will soon bring a new policy for all app-based taxi services including Ola and Uber so that our business is not be affected," Soni said.

"Besides, the government has also agreed that it will take action against auto and taxis of other states for plying on local routes in Delhi even if they have Delhi-NCR permit," he added.

Later, the government in a statement said it has also decided to abolish the training class required for renewing licences for light motor vehicles.

"PSV badges and licenses are mandatory for drivers who are plying their vehicles under Ola and Uber. As of now, we have called our strike, but if the government doesn't fulfil our demands at the earliest, drivers of autos and taxis will go off the roads again," Soni said.

Earlier in the day, commuters were left stranded at various places including railway stations, ISBTs, airport and metro stations as the indefinite strike of auto and taxi unions against app-based cab services entered its third day.

During the strike, ridership in Delhi Metro also saw an increase of around one lakh. On Tuesday, nearly 23.5 lakh people availed its services till 8 PM, while it had recorded 22.10 lakh commuters the corresponding day last week.

Talking to mediapersons here, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia termed the strike "gundaraj" as there were reports of protesters indulging in violence.

Yesterday, the AAP government had claimed that 17 unions have called off the strike, but JAC member Rajendra Soni had refuted it. Jain had also questioned Delhi Police's "inaction" against "BJP-supported goons". BUN SBR NSD ZMN NSD