http://www.standardmedia.co.ke/article/2000207247/storm-as-decomposing-bodies-of-missing-trio-retrieved-from-river
1823
18


Updated Sat, July 2nd 2016 at 00:00 GMT +3

Residents view the body of Josphat Mwendwa being loaded in a police car after being found in Oldonyo Sabuk River. 1/7/2016 PHOTO BY WILLIS AWANDU/STANDARD

Missing city lawyer Willy Kimani and two other people were yesterday found brutally murdered and their bodies dumped in a river.

The discovery sucked Kenya into a diplomatic storm, with the American ambassador and eight other Western envoys publicly demanding a thorough investigation into the case.

It brought to a gruesome end a weeklong search for the human rights advocate, who was abducted with his client on his way from the hearing of a controversial case involving Administration policemen.

The bodies of 24-year-old Kimani, his client Josephat Mwenda – a boda boda rider – and driver Joseph Muiruri were pulled out of Ol Donyo Sabuk River in Kilimambogo yesterday, badly decomposed and bearing torture wounds.

Three Administration policemen are being held in connection with the murder. They are to be charged on Monday.

“They must have died very painfully, through suffocation. Their hands were tied with ropes,” said lawyer Duncan Kinuthia, a colleague of Kimani’s, after viewing the bodies at the City Mortuary.

Father-of-one Kimani went missing on June 23, together with boda boda man Mwenda and the driver of the car ferrying them from Mavoko law courts.

A legal aid advocate, Kimani was defending Mwendwa against narcotics and traffic charges, which fellow lawyers described as trumped-up. They said the case had been brought by Administration policemen with whom the boda boda man had had a long-standing wrangle.

Kimani and the driver both worked for the American charity group International Justice Mission, which was giving Mwenda free legal assistance.

Yesterday, US ambassador Robert Godec and eight other envoys issued a statement denouncing the killing.

They said: “The individuals responsible for these crimes must face prosecution regardless of whether they are private citizens or members of the NPS. Holding police officers accountable for violations of human rights and other forms of misconduct is vital to end impunity in the police service and to establish safety and security for all Kenyans.”

It was signed by Mr Godec, Dutch Ambassador Frans Makken, Australia’s John Feakes, and Mr Nic Haley (Britain) together with the charge d’affaires of Norway, Canada, Sweden, Denmark and Germany.