http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3763450/Inches-tragedy-Driver-squeezes-past-motorcyclist-lane-one-Scotland-s-dangerous-roads.html
1821
18
This is the precarious moment a reckless driver in the same lane as a motorcyclist squeezes their way past on one of Scotland's most dangerous roads.

The rider comes just inches from tragedy as the impatient motorist forces their way through on the A9 Southbound at Kessock.

Shocking footage captures the near miss from a dash-cam on an HGV travelling along behind the two.

Reckless driver: A small red hatchback races up behind a motorcyclist in Scotland

It shows the small red hatchback racing up behind the motorcyclist before callously making its way past on the outside lane.

Their dangerous manoeuvre was captured last month just by an infamous junction that acts as a gateway to the Scottish Highlands.

Running 273 miles from Thurso to Falkirk, the A9 is Scotland's longest road. In the last three years alone 19 people have died and 48 have been left seriously injured.

The HGV driver said: 'The red car is shown at the beginning of the clip joining the dual carriageway. I did not move over as the biker was overtaking me.

'Obviously biker should have moved over once he got past me but putting him in danger for not doing so is not what any motorist would expect.

Dangerous road: Running from Thurso to Falkirk, the A9 is Scotland's longest and one of its most dangerous roads

Impatient: Travelling along in the same lane the red car tries to make its way past

Tight squeeze: The rider comes just inches from tragedy as the impatient motorist overtakes

'It's very dangerous driving from the red car. The worst scenario is that the biker could of be knocked off the bike and right under the wheels of my lorry.'

A spokesman for Scotland's Worst Drivers, who posted the clip online, said: 'Although the biker could have returned to the left after overtaking it doesn't excuse the potentially fatal manoeuvre by the driver of the red car.

'Had the car clipped the biker he undoubtedly would have had no control and would've ended up under the wheels of oncoming vehicles.