http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2016/08/29/human-rights-groups-sound-alarm-on-secret-detentions-in-ukraine/
181
18
Leading human rights groups have called on Ukrainian authorities to launch an investigation into enforced disappearances after details emerged of a “secret prison” being used by the country’s security service.

The SBU, Ukrainian’s successor agency to the KGB, secretly held some prisoners for more than a year at a covert facility in Kharkiv, a city in eastern Ukraine, Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch said in a joint statement on Monday.

“The Security Service’s continued denial of enforced disappearances fosters a climate of lawlessness and perpetuates impunity for grave human rights violations,” said Tanya Lokshina, a senior Europe and Central Asia researcher at Human Rights Watch.

Thirteen people were released after a report into illegal detention and torture by both sides in the conflict was published in July, but five more are still being held in the secret compound, the statement said.

Ms Lokshina called the release “very good news,” but said there had not been official acknowledgement of the detention or release.

Enforced disappearances occur when police or security forces detain individuals and then try to conceal the whereabouts of fate of the prisoners.

The practice is considered a grave violation of human rights under international law, and has been used by both sides during the two-year war in eastern Ukraine.

Monday's statement is the latest in a series of revelations about human rights abuses since fighting broke out in 2014.

Last year Amnesty International accused Russian-backed separatists of executing prisoners of war on at least three separate occasions and both sides of war crimes including torture, beating, and mock executions of prisoners of war.

In a joint report last month, Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International documented several cases of disappearance and torture by both Ukrainian authorities and the forces of the self-proclaimed Donetsk and Luhansk People’s Republics.

Victims were often accused of collaborating with the enemy, with confessions sometimes extracted through beating and torture.

Several detainees who were secretly held at the compound in Kharkiv had been snatched from courtrooms or pre-trial detention before they were due for release or prisoner exchange, the groups said.

In one case, a prisoner convicted of running an illegal armed group was taken from a detention facility after a judge ordered his release on suspended sentence. Instead of being taken to be exchanged for Ukrainian prisoners held by pro-Russian separatists, as he expected, he was sent to the secret Kharkiv facility and held there for nearly a year.

Another prisoner was transferred to the facility in December 2014 after confessing under torture to being an informant for Russian separatists. He was released on July 25 this year.

“We urge you to take immediate steps to secure [the remaining prisoners’] release and to bring the perpetrators to account,” Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch said in a joint open letter to Ukraine’s military prosecutor.

The SBU was not immediately available for comment.