http://www.wsj.com/articles/iraqi-forces-battle-islamic-state-far-from-mosul-1477388332
180
18
ENLARGE Iraqi forces prepare to attack Islamic State positions as fighting to retake the extremist-held city of Mosul enters its second week. Clashes under way in Rutba, in Iraq’s western Anbar province, are apparently part of the extremist group’s tactics to divert resources away from the battle for Mosul. Photo: Associated Press

ERBIL, Iraq—Iraqi security forces said Tuesday they had regained control of the town of Rutba after repelling a dayslong assault by Islamic State, an attack designed to divert forces from the U.S.-backed offensive to retake Mosul.

The development in Anbar province some 400 miles southwest of Mosul comes after Iraqi forces overcame a similar onslaught this weekend by the terror group on the oil-rich city of Kirkuk. The attacks were the first concerted effort by Islamic State to mount counteroffensives away from the front lines near Mosul established by Iraqi, Kurdish and U.S.-led coalition troops.

The guerrilla-style attacks are expected to continue as territory under the group’s control is diminished, Iraqi officials said.

After initially driving Islamic State from dozens of villages outside Mosul, the pace of the offensive that began Oct. 17 has slowed as troops focus on clearing the remaining fighters from areas ostensibly under government control and encircling larger towns east of Mosul.

The militants entered Rutba on Sunday, deploying a wave of suicide car bombs and gunmen against security forces guarding the town, officials said.

Security forces destroyed at least a dozen car bombs as they clashed with pockets of extremists, before finally declaring victory.

More than 60 militants were killed, according to Anbar operations spokesman Gen. Ismail Al Mahalawi, who spoke after Iraqi forces raised the national flag over the mayor’s office.

In the larger battle to maintain control of Kirkuk, some 100 miles southeast of Mosul, security forces killed at least 82 Islamic State fighters, they said. Local police and Iraqi Kurdish fighters, known as Peshmerga, helped in the battle after some 100 fighters assaulted the city early Friday morning. A handful remain at large, according to security forces.

“All attackers have been killed, except one or two,” said Najmaldin Karim, the Kurdish governor of Kirkuk, who said he was proud of the ethnically diverse city’s residents for joining together to fight. “The people of Kirkuk, especially the Arabs, didn't help the terrorists. On the contrary, they were helping security forces to arrest terrorists.”

Kirkuk security forces announced a handful of arrests Tuesday of Islamic State sympathizers who assisted the attack.

Write to Ben Kesling at benjamin.kesling@wsj.com