http://www.nytimes.com/2016/10/26/world/middleeast/fighting-for-mosul-unleashes-a-fresh-set-of-horrors-on-civilians.html
180
18
But as the United Nations has worked to protect civilians, it has at times been undermined by the Iraqi security forces. Recently, a unit of the federal police, whose leadership is closely aligned with a major Iran-backed Shiite militia that has been accused of abuses against Sunnis, raided a camp for the displaced, threatening residents and making off with tents, latrines, water tanks and other supplies, according to United Nations officials.

On the military front, the Islamic State has managed to launch two attacks on cities far from Mosul, diverting the attention of Iraqi security forces and the warplanes of the American-led coalition.

In recent days, the Islamic State has attacked Rutba, a desert town in Anbar Province not far from the Jordanian border, seizing some neighborhoods. That came quickly after last week’s brazen assault on Kirkuk, a Kurdish-dominated city south of Mosul that also has a large Arab population. Dozens of fighters moved on the city in the early-morning darkness, setting off gun battles that lasted for more than a day.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Kurdish officials in Kirkuk responded by forcing out hundreds of Arab families who had sought safety there, according to United Nations officials and local residents, as they feared that terrorists had sneaked into the city posing as displaced civilians.

The move is likely to raise tensions in the divided city, and has echoes of Saddam Hussein’s efforts to forcibly change the demographic balance of oil-rich Kirkuk by moving out Kurds and replacing them with Arabs.

Arab residents of Kirkuk who were interviewed on Tuesday reported that armed Kurdish security agents had removed families from homes and forced them to move to camps. They said several homes were also destroyed, in what appeared to be a methodical attempt to force out as many Arabs as possible.

Sheikh Ismail al-Hadidi, an Arab leader in Kirkuk, said that the local authorities were exacting collective punishment on Arabs for the crimes of the Islamic State, even though many helped security forces put down the attack last week.

“We call on the local government and local security agencies to deal with the consequences of the attack and not resort to collective punishment by deporting Arabs and destroying their houses,” he said.

On the day of the assault on Kirkuk, as aircraft from the American-led coalition were diverted to help fend off the attack, a strike hit a Shiite mosque in nearby Daquq, killing at least 13 women and children at a funeral, according to Daquq’s mayor, Amir Khokram, and Human Rights Watch.

Local officials blamed the American-led coalition, but United States military officials have said the episode was not the result of a coalition airstrike. Some have suggested that an artillery shell hit the mosque, but Human Rights Watch said the evidence it had seen “is consistent with an airstrike.” The Iraqi forces are also conducting airstrikes, and Human Rights called for a thorough investigation.

Two Iraqi journalists covering the fighting have been killed by Islamic State snipers, and several others have been injured, including a New York Times photographer who was wounded by shrapnel from a car bomb last week.

Citing safety concerns, the Iraqi government said recently that it would begin restricting journalists’ access to the front lines. But on a visit near the front line east of Mosul this week, near the recently liberated city of Bartella, it was possible to get past checkpoints and move closer to the fighting.