http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3833274/Minnesota-sect-leader-pleads-guilty-sex-assault-girls.html
181
18
Victor Barnard, 55, has been sentenced to 30 years in prison for the sexual assault of two girls when they were as young as 12 and 13

The leader of an isolated religious cult in Minnesota will spend three decades in prison for sexually molesting two girls.

Self-professed minister Victor Barnard has pleaded guilty to accusations that he assaulted the women when they were as young as 12 and 13.

Barnard, 55, dubbed the girls his 'maidens' and persuaded their parents to move them into a compound with other young women.

Barnard was the longtime leader of the River Road Fellowship near Finlayson, but he left Minnesota in 2009 after allegations of improper sexual relationships.

He became one of America's Most Wanted and led authorities in a year-long searched that culminated in his arrest in Brazil, where he had been in hiding with one of his former maidens.

Scroll down for video

Barnard, 55, dubbed the girls his 'maidens' and persuaded their parents to move them into a compound with other young women

Barnard was the longtime leader of the River Road Fellowship near Finlayson, but he left Minnesota in 2009 after allegations of improper sexual relationships

Barnard was in an apartment near paradisiacal white-sand Pipa Beach in northeastern Brazil in February 2015.

He faced 59 counts of criminal misconduct after two women said they were among ten girls and women, who were chosen to live apart from their families and with him at his River Road Fellowship camp in rural Minnesota.

One woman alleged Barnard sexually abused her beginning at age 13 and continued until she was 22, while the other said her abuse occurred between the ages 12 and 20.

The U.S. Marshals Service said Barnard initially left Minnesota in 2010, before the women came forward, and his whereabouts were unknown for some time. It was believed he and his followers had moved to Washington state.

Brazilian police inspector Paulo Henrique Oliveira said Barnard entered the South American country legally in 2012, and a nationwide warrant was issued in April 2014 for his arrest.

He had been living for at least six months at the apartment where he was arrested.

He became one of America's Most Wanted and led authorities in a year-long searched that culminated in his arrest in Brazil, where he had been in hiding with one of his former maidens

During the arrest, police confiscated computers, cell phones, flash drives, religious papers and diaries from the condo, according to the Star Tribune.

Sexual abuse charges were brought against Barnard in 2014.

In 2000, he created a 'Shepherd's Camp' with a group of ten girls and women he selected to live with him at his home.

Barnard allegedly kept the girls isolated and used religious coercion and intimidation to maintain his control over them.

He told one victim 'she would remain a virgin because he was a man of God,' according to a criminal complaint.

After enduring years of abuse, former sect member Lindsay Tornambe (pictured) told police about the girls' plight. She was 13 years old when she was first taken to the camp

Another former cult-member, Jess Schweiss (pictured), who was taken to the camp at age 12, came forward to tell authorities her story too

The Maidens Group, with girls aged between 12 and 24, were first-born daughters handed over to Barnard and were 'forced to have sex with him' anywhere between once and five times a month over a decade.

He said that Jesus and King Solomon had many women followers, so 'God's word' meant that it was normal for him to have sex with them.

In 2012, after enduring years of abuse following her parents leaving her at the camp when she was 13 years old, former sect member Lindsay Tornambe alerted authorities to the girls' plight.

'It feels so surreal,' said Tornambe, who began to cry when she heard news of the arrest.

'I knew the day would come, but it finally came and it's almost numbing.'

In 2000, Barnard (pictured) created the 'Shepherd's Camp' with a group of ten girls and women he selected to live with him at his home

The Maidens, ages 12 to 24, were first-born daughters of the River Road Fellowship (pictured) who were handed over to Barnard and 'forced to have sex with him' anywhere between once and five times a month

Another former cult member, Jess Schweiss, told authorities her story too after she was taken to the camp at 12 years old.

She said when she told her parents about the abuse, her mother 'did not want to hear it,' according to the criminal complaint.

Cindi Currie, who said she had visited Barnard's religious camp in Minnesota years ago and tried to persuade a friend to leave the group, spoke out saying that she cannot wait to see Barnard behind bars.

'He has ruined more lives. That man is the devil incarnate,' she said. 'I'm just ready to cry. I'm so glad they found him. Not only will Victor Barnard go to jail, but every adult who knew what was going on up there can start to pay, and maybe these girls can start to heal.'