http://www.politico.com/story/2016/10/obama-trump-women-tape-repugnant-229621
180
18
Josh Earnest also said there’s a broad consensus that the rhetoric revealed in the tape comprised sexual assault. | AP Photo Obama found Trump's talk of sexual assault 'repugnant'

Donald Trump’s comments about sexually assaulting women with impunity are “repugnant,” the White House said Tuesday.

Asked during a gaggle aboard Air Force One what President Barack Obama thought of the Republican presidential nominee’s remarks, which emerged last Friday in a leaked 2005 “Access Hollywood” tape, White House press secretary Josh Earnest said Obama found the comments as unacceptable as other Americans did.

Story Continued Below

“The president found the tape as repugnant as most Americans did,” Earnest told reporters.

Earnest also said there’s a broad consensus that the rhetoric revealed in the tape comprised sexual assault. “There has been a pretty clear statement by people all along the ideological spectrum that those statements constituted sexual assault,” he said. “That’s why many people I believe have concluded that those statements are worthy of sharp condemnation.”

Earnest also quoted his mother as he derided Republicans who have abandoned Trump, hoping to save their majorities in Congress.

“What my mom would say in this situation is, ‘You reap what you sow,’” he said, adding that this is “not something from which they’ll quickly recover.”

Obama himself condemned Trump’s language on Sunday in Chicago. “One of the most disturbing things about this election is just the unbelievable rhetoric coming at the top of the Republican ticket,” Obama said. “I don’t need to repeat it. There are children in the room.”

Obama, who will stump for Clinton in North Carolina later Tuesday, noted Sunday that Trump is a candidate who has demeaned and degraded women and insulted minorities, immigrants, troops and veterans.

“That tells you a couple things. It tells you he is insecure enough that he pumps himself up by putting other people down,” said Obama, who added, “Not a character trait that I would advise for somebody in the Oval Office.”