http://www.nation.co.ke/counties/mombasa/Autopsy-on-terror-girls-set-for-next-week/1954178-3382962-axr0vyz/
180
18
By MOHAMED AHMED

More by this Author

By GALGALO BOCHA

More by this Author

Post-mortem on the bodies of the three women terrorists who were killed as they attempted to raid Mombasa’s Central Police Station on Sunday is yet to be conducted.

Police said post-mortem and forensic analysis must be conducted on the bodies of Maimuna Abdirahman Hussein, Ramla Abdirahman Hussein and Tasnim Yakubu Abdullahi Farah before they are released to their families for burial.

Speaking to Nation at the police headquarters, Mombasa County Police Commander Patterson Maelo said: “We cannot refuse to give the bodies to anyone, but there are procedures that must be followed as part of our investigations.”

“A post-mortem must be conducted and if not then anyone who is interested to pick the bodies should follow the legal way,” added Mr Maelo.

The bodies are at Coast General Hospital mortuary.

The father of two of the three terrorists, Mr Abdirahman Hussein, has been trying to get his daughters’ bodies for burial since Tuesday, without success.

He even swore an affidavit pleading to bury his daughters without a post-mortem examination being conducted on them because of his Muslim faith.

The graves that Mr Hussein had dug at Maziara ya Tudor cemetery remained open for the second day.

By yesterday, indications were that the post-mortem exam would be conducted next week when a team of forensic experts is expected to fly in from Nairobi.

According to police, there was constant communication between the raid’s ring leader, Tasnim, and slain cleric Sheikh Aboud Rogo’s widow.

Police claim that there was an exchange of money between Tasnim and the widow, Hania Said Hagar, amounting to Sh10,000.

A source privy to the investigations indicated that the money was sent a few weeks before the botched attack.

“Cybercrime and other specialised investigators are trying to analyse the data from the two women's phones to establish the nature of their communication,” said the source.

On Thursday, the Nation was informed that the two sisters left home one hour before the attack on the pretext that they were going shopping for Idd-ul-Adha in town, where it is believed they met Tasnim, who hailed from Kibokoni.

“They said they were going to buy shoes for the festival but they never returned home and in the evening, the family heard that three women had been killed at a police station,” said a close family friend.

“On Monday, at around 2pm, the distraught father went to the Makupa Police Station to file a report of missing persons and further requested to be shown the three bodies to ascertain whether they were of his daughters,” said a police source.