http://thenationonlineng.net/three-held-onibas-abduction/
1822
18
Operatives of the Inspector General of Police (IGP) Intelligence Response Team (IRT) have arrested three more suspects connected with the abduction of the Oniba of Iba in Lagos, Oba Goriola Oseni.

The monarch spent 21 days in the kidnappers’ den before he was released after the payment of N15.1 million ransom.

The suspects are: Yeris Fresh 45, Anthony Ebidaear, 51 and Keremeni Mode, 40.

It was gathered that the suspects, who furnished the kidnappers with information on the monarch, collected N800,000 as their share of the money allegedly collected as ransom.

Their arrest was sequel to the clampdown on the gang’s leader identified as Buba Furejo (a.k.a General Duba) and his second-in -command who were earlier paraded by security operatives.

It was also learnt that apart from providing information to aid the monarch’s abduction, the three suspects also provided surveillance on the waterways, hinting the kidnappers on activities of security operatives.

Police Commissioner Fatai Owoseni said the suspects will be charged to court at the completion of investigation.

Also yesterday, the police paraded ‘Prophet’ David Ifunaya for allegedly abducting a teenager.

However, the teenage girl (names withheld) who denied being abducted, said she voluntarily ran to the prophet’s home because she wanted to convert to Christianity.

The girl, who claimed that she was from a fetish background which has stagnated her progress and made it impossible for her to pass the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) examination after several trials, said she passed the examination this year because she listened to the prophet’s admonition.

She said: “He did not kidnap me. He did not rape me. I am still a virgin and you can take me to the hospital for a test. He did not do any bad thing to me. I just wanted a different way of life from what my parents practice.

“ I am from a polygamous home and there are so many spiritual issues from my background.

“I knew him when he was evangelising and that was how we started talking. I was the one who told him I wanted to convert (to Christianity) and he told me to be praying that I could stay in my parent’s house without joining them in the fetish practice.

“But I knew it won’t be possible and so, I ran from home. I was at his place for about 10 days. He kept telling me to call my parents because he did not want any problem. I have already told you that nothing bad happened to me. He’s not my boyfriend. I was just depressed and frustrated at home and wanted salvation.” The teenager pleaded to not be photographed.

Corroborating her story, the suspect who said he was an employee with an online service company, said he never thought of reporting to the police because he believed he was just helping her and did not want her to be roaming the streets.