http://www.business-standard.com/article/pti-stories/lawyer-lodges-complaint-against-assaulted-traffic-cop-116081101583_1.html
1822
18
Lawyer lodges complaint against assaulted traffic cop

A day after a traffic police constable was assaulted inside a courtroom here allegedly by some advocates, a lawyer today lodged a complaint against the cop and three other policemen accusing them of misbehaving with him and his sister earlier. The complaint by advocate Satya Prakash Gautam was filed after the police had yesterday registered an FIR against him and some other advocates for allegedly assaulting traffic police constable Rambir inside the courtroom of a Metropolitan Magistrate. Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) Madhur Verma said that an FIR was registered yesterday on the basis of Rambir's complaint under relevant provisions of the IPC. "We have registered an FIR in the matter. The accused had escaped from the spot. Police will take action against them," Verma said. Meanwhile, advocate Gautam claimed he has today filed a complaint to the SHO of Sabzi Mandi police station against Rambir and three other cops. A senior police official, however, said that they have ...

A day after a traffic police constable was assaulted inside a courtroom here allegedly by some advocates, a lawyer today lodged a complaint against the cop and three other policemen accusing them of misbehaving with him and his sister earlier.



The complaint by advocate Satya Prakash Gautam was filed after the police had yesterday registered an FIR against him and some other advocates for allegedly assaulting traffic police constable Rambir inside the courtroom of a Metropolitan Magistrate.



Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) Madhur Verma said that an FIR was registered yesterday on the basis of Rambir's complaint under relevant provisions of the IPC.



"We have registered an FIR in the matter. The accused had escaped from the spot. Police will take action against them," Verma said.



Meanwhile, advocate Gautam claimed he has today filed a complaint to the SHO of Sabzi Mandi police station against Rambir and three other cops.



A senior police official, however, said that they have not yet received any complaint from the advocate.



The official said that yesterday when Rambir was present in the courtroom for the hearing, some advocates allegedly repeatedly punched him on his face before two other policemen managed to rescue him from the lawyers.



Rambir was rushed to a hospital and was treated for the injuries sustained on nose, face and hands.



Meanwhile, Gautam has alleged in his complaint that on June 26, 2016 he was on bike with his sister when Rambir had stopped him near the New Delhi Railway Station and had threatened to send him behind the bars for not carrying some documents of his vehicle.



He alleged that Rambir, along with three other cops - Head Constable Naresh Kumar, Constable Dharmender and ASI Bijender Singh - used "filthy and vulgar language" when he was with his sister and kept on harassing them.



"Police officials constable Rambir, Head Constable Naresh Kumar, Constable Dharmender and ASI Bijender Singh under a conspiracy with the ulterior motive to defeat legal system, procedure and the penal action, may cause harm/injury/hurt either to me or my family members to any extent and hence, I prefer to file the present complaint requesting for a strong, stern and prompt action against these erring police officials as early as possible," he said in his complaint.



The lawyer said that a meeting was held at Bar Council of Delhi in which it was discussed that atrocities of policemen on lawyers were increasing and the lawyers body is planning to go on strike.

Gautam also alleged in his complaint that the cop asked



him for a bribe of Rs 2,000 to settle the matter but when he refused to pay it, the Constable began harassing him and his sister.



"Instead of issuing challan, the constable started making a video of me and my sister and when I objected to it, he started abusing us," the lawyer claimed.



He said when he pointed to a PCR vehicle going on the wrong side and asked Rambir to issue a challan to its driver as well, the cop dismissed his contention.



He also alleged that he was threatened outside the Tis Hazari court complex yesterday, when he was on his way to attend the hearing against him.

Press Trust of India