http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/donald-trump-illma-gore_us_57fcdeace4b0b6a43035653a
181
18
A recent artwork by artist Illma Gore depicts Trump getting absolutely pounded by a giant, anthropomorphized, and very buff vagina. (Must be those kegels!) The piece shows that no amount of “ locker room talk ” can prepare you for being in the ring with some actual female power.

Listen up, patriarchy. This is why you don’t go around grabbing women, as Donald Trump so eloquently put it, “ by the pussy .” Because pussy fights back.

Warning: The below image contains a large, anthropomorphized vagina so, if you’re not into that, you should leave now.

Gore is also the artist behind “Make America Great Again,” the viral drawing depicting nude Trump with a micropenis. “Your genitals do not define your gender, your power, or your status,” she explained in a statement accompanying the work, a memo that Trump certainly didn’t receive. Gore was reportedly attacked as a result of the image, by a man who jumped out of a car and screamed “Trump 2016!” Gore will be on Facebook Tuesday, Oct. 11 starting at 11 a.m. PST to answer questions about her art.

Gore is just one of the women fighting back against Trump’s grotesque comments about sexually assaulting women. Author Kelly Oxford invited women to tweet their first experiences with sexual assault, and was overwhelmed by the thousands who responded in minutes. Canadian musician Kim Boekbinder also created a music video called “Pussy Grabs Back,” which has been viewed over 22,000 times in the past two days.

We have just under a month until Trump officially steps into the voting ring, when women will be happy to be the ones to knock him out once and for all. As Lindy West put it: “Next month we will grab you where it hurts. By your ballots.”

Editor’s note: Donald Trump regularly incites political violence and is a serial liar, rampant xenophobe, racist, misogynist and birther who has repeatedly pledged to ban all Muslims — 1.6 billion members of an entire religion — from entering the U.S.