http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/news/2016/09/mil-160905-voa01.htm
182
18
Third Blast Hits Kabul After Explosions Kill at Least 30

By Ayaz Gul September 05, 2016

A third blast rocked Afghanistan's capital, Kabul, late Monday, hours after a suicide bomber blew up his explosives-laden vehicle, killing at least 30 people and wounding more than 90 others earlier in the day.

The massive blast was followed by gunfire. A guesthouse frequented by foreigners was said to be the target. Afghan Special Forces quickly reached the area and reported to have engaged at least two gunmen trying to enter the facility.

There were no immediate reports of casualties, nor any claim of responsibility.

Hours earlier, a suicide bomber detonated his device near the Afghan Defense Ministry as crowds gathered to inspect the site after an earlier small blast caused by another device.

Afghanistan's Tolo TV reported that the ministry's senior commander, General Abdul Raziq, along with the intelligence chief for the capital city and a district police chief, were among those killed.

Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid says the insurgents were behind Monday's attack, claiming they killed around 60 people, mostly personnel of the Afghan security forces, although the insurgent group often issues inflated tolls for such attacks.

President Ashraf Ghani condemned the bloodshed, saying, "The enemies of Afghanistan have lost their ability to fight the security and defense forces of the country and thus attack highways, cities, mosques, schools and common people."

Kunduz situation

The Kabul attack came hours after security forces retook control of a key district from the Taliban in the volatile northern province of Kunduz.

Area commanders say the insurgents were forced to retreat from Qala-i-Zal after the forces, backed by air support, staged an early morning assault on the district that the insurgents overran about a month ago.

The Taliban has stepped up its campaign of violence and battlefield attacks, inflicting heavy casualties on the security forces.

The commander of U.S. and NATO forces in Afghanistan, General John Nicholson, said last week that more than 900 Afghan soldiers and police personnel were killed in July alone.

NEWS LETTER Join the GlobalSecurity.org mailing list Enter Your Email Address







