http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3669548/The-fighters-willing-die-Russian-extremists-vital-ISIS-s-cause-s-revealed-Istanbul-airport-bombers-ex-Soviet-states.html
180
18
Islamist extremists in ex-Soviet states have been travelling to Syria and Iraq in their thousands to join ISIS and are said to be 'ready for death'.

It was revealed yesterday that the three suicide bombers who launched a co-ordinated attack on Istanbul airport killing 44 people were from Russia, Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzstan.

The mastermind behind the assault is thought to be one-armed Chechen warlord Akhmed Chataev, who has risen through the ranks to become an ISIS commander, with at least 130 militants at his disposal.

Scroll down for video

The three suicide bombers who blew themselves up in Istanbul's Ataturk airport. It has been revealed all three were originally from ex-Soviet states

And it is believed the attackers may have come from a Russian-speaking ISIS terror cell.

Michael McCaul, US chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security said: 'He's ... probably the No. 1 enemy in the Northern Caucus region of Russia. He's traveled to Syria on many occasions and became one of the top lieutenants for the minister of war for ISIS operations.'

The news comes as Russian President Vladimir Putin revealed last year that between 5,000 and 7,000 people from Russia and other former Soviet nations have travelled to Syria and Iraq to join the terror group.

Extremists from Chechnya and other provinces in Russia's volatile North Caucasus region have had a visible presence among ISIS fighters.

One of them is Omar Shishani, and ethnic Chechen, who was killed earlier this year in an American airstrike when he had a $5million reward on his head.

He had been a key commander in taking control of the ISIS stronghold of Raqqa and had oversaw the capture of foreign prisoners.

The mastermind behind the assault is thought to be one-armed Chechen warlord Akhmed Chataev, pictured, who has risen through the ranks to become an ISIS commander

And according to Time magazine, fighters joining ISIS from ex-Soviet states have distinguished themselves as some of the fiercest in ISIS.

Turkish authorities have reported that some have even started going on missions outside the self-proclaimed caliphate of Syria and Iraq.

Meanwhile Michael Weiss, who has published a book on ISIS told Hurryiet that militants from the former Soviet republics are the most solid and 'ready for death.'

It is believed that many extremists opted to join ISIS after a war of independence Russia fought with Chechnya in the 1990s.

This is the first clear picture of the man Turkish media are claiming is one of the men who attacked the airport on Tuesday

A second suicide bomber can be seen here, making his way through the terminal with what appears to be a gun

One of the three terrorists that struck at Turkey's Ataturk Airport wields an AK-47 as he carries out his killing spree (left), while a man carries a wounded boy away from the airport (right)

However, Russia finally gained control of the area in 2000 and the idea of creating an Islamic caliphate in the mountains seemed like a lost cause.

Now according to Time, the flow of insurgents in Chechnya has stopped as people head to Iraq and Syria instead.

This has now seen a reduction in the number of terror attacks inside Russia, reports CNN, with terrorist incidents falling by half last year.

However, it now appears that terrorists from the region were responsible for killing 44 people at the Ataturk airport on Tuesday evening.

Turkish police have since detained 11 foreigners suspected of being members of an ISIS cell in Istanbul linked to the suicide bombers.

The arrests in the dawn raid, by a counter-terror police squad in the Basaksehir district on the European side of the city, brought the number of people detained in the investigation to 24, it said.

The arrests came as relations between Moscow and Ankara had been at an all-time low following Turkey downing a Russian jet close to its border with Syria last year.

Bodies lie on the pavement outside Istanbul's international airport after explosions and gunfire shook the terminal

Desperate passengers embrace as they gather in shock outside the terminal after the airport was evacuated and all flights were grounded

The pilot ejected from his aircraft but was killed by rebels as he floated back down to earth.

However, today, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov met his Turkish counterpart Mevlut Cavusoglu for the first time since the incident.

'We hope that this encounter will set the right tone for the normalisation of relations,' Lavrov said.

Meanwhile Russian tourists were targeted by Islamic terrorists in October when a Metrojet flight from Sharm el Sheikh to St Petersburg crashed over the Sinai desert.

It was later revealed that a bomb in a soft drinks can was put under one of the seats, possibly by an airport employee.

All 224 on board, who were mostly Russian, died in the attack.