http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3783802/Shopkeeper-killed-three-people-insurance-scam-appeal.html
180
18
Chris Noble and neighbours Bianka O'Brien, 31, and baby Jude were killed

The fire exploded into the units above his store in September 2014

Khan set fire to his Rozelle convenience store in a bungled insurance scam

He has lodged an intention to appeal his conviction at NSW Supreme Court

to at least 30-years in jail in August

A shopkeeper who killed a man and a mother and baby when he set his store on fire in a bungled insurance scam will appeal his conviction and 30-year prison sentence.

Adeel Khan, 46, was sentenced last month in the NSW Supreme Court after he killed three people when he set fire to his Darling Street, Rozelle in inner-west Sydney, convenience store in September 2014.

The inferno exploded into the units above his store, and killed Bianka O'Brien, 31, her 11-month baby Jude, and their neighbour Chris Noble, 27.

But Khan has lodged an intention to appeal, Sydney Morning Herald reported.

He has maintained his innocence and insisted three armed robbers had tied him up and set fire to his store.

Scroll down for video

Adeel Ahmad Khan has lodged his intention to appeal his conviction and 30-year sentence after he set his Rozelle store on fire and killed three people (pictured on sentencing day)

The inferno exploded into the units above his store, and killed Bianka O'Brien, 31, her 11-month baby Jude (pictured together), and their neighbour Chris Noble, 27

The father-of-three lodged his intention to appeal just five days after he was handed a minimum 30-year sentence, or a maximum of 40-years behind bars.

Khan had been found guilty in June of the murder of Mr Noble and of the manslaughter of Ms O'Brien and baby Jude.

Included in his sentence is causing grievous bodily harm to Mr Noble's flatmate Todd Fisher, as well as injuring flatmate Corey Cameron.

Mr Noble lived above Khan's convenient store and Ms O'Brien and her son lived next door.

Chris Noble (pictured), 27, was killed in the Rozelle inferno in September 2014

11-month-old baby Jude (pictured) and his mother Ms O'Brien were killed

Khan was sentenced to a minimum of 30-years or maximum of 40-years in jail

Khan had set up an elaborate system of 10 petrol containers and wicks throughout his ground-floor store for a $225,000 insurance payout and to avoid having to meet lease payments, the court had heard during the trial.

He was aware there were residences above his store.

However, CCTV footage had caught Khan filling containers with 38 litres of petrol at a service station two days before the devastating fire.

In sentencing, NSW Supreme Court Justice Elizabeth Fullerton said his motives 'were personal financial gain'.

She said the fire to pull an insurance scam was 'offending of the most serious kind'.

'There is no evidence of remorse or contrition,' she said.

Khan is pictured with his wife Naima Adeel. He had set up an elaborate network of 10 petrol containers and wicks throughout his ground-floor store for an insurance payout

Ms O'Brien (pictured with her husband) and her family lived in the unit next to Mr Noble above the store

Chris Noble (pictured), 27, lived in the unit above Khan's Rozelle convenience store

The explosion tore down the Darling Street, Rozelle convenience store