http://www.philstar.com/headlines/2016/08/02/1609207/no-let-vs-criminal-abu-sayyaf-rody
1821
18
MANILA, Philippines - President Duterte reiterated yesterday an all-out war against the Abu Sayyaf, which still holds a Norwegian and some Malaysians hostage.

“They are nothing but a group of criminals. There will be no talks with Abu Sayyaf,” Duterte said, reiterating his call to other groups such as the Left and other rebels to have peace talks.

He said he has no reason to talk peace with the barbaric group, which has resorted to kidnap-for-ransom activities through the years.

The group had beheaded their victims after failing to get ransom and many times had reportedly raped women captives, the President said.

“I will not deal with persons of extreme brutality. There is no redeeming factor or reason for me to seek out and talk with criminals. Just like in the (campaign against) drugs… they will just derail the life of the nation – the life of our nation.”

Barely a month in office, Duterte said he wants to leave a legacy of having established peace with various groups, but not the Abu Sayyaf.

Headlines ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1

At 71, the former Davao mayor also wants to see peace in his lifetime as he leads the country to progress and development.

“(It is) my desire to make peace for everybody of this generation before I make my exit – that will be for peace and leave a country that is prosperous as a nation,” he said before inducting the presidential appointees, led by Public Works Secretary Mark Villar, at the Rizal Hall of Malacañang.

In an impromptu press briefing, Duterte also reiterated his call for the Armed Forces of the Philippines to continue fighting the enemies of the state.

“My standing order: do their jobs to protect and fight the enemies of the state who would want to challenge or bring us down, the duly-constituted authorities. There was an election… every congressman, mayor and president was elected. So by the essence of democracy, all leaders working under you are chosen by the people. It will not be an imposed leadership,” he said.

He said he told soldiers to learn the ropes of making peace: “You just have to navigate the way it is done in the process of peace.”