http://en.farsnews.com/newstext.aspx?nn=13950512000389
1821
18
World

Battlefield Sources Reject Terrorists' Control over Strategic Road in Aleppo Province

TEHRAN (FNA)- Informed battlefield sources in the Eastern part of Aleppo province dismissed the allegations by the terrorists that they have taken control of strategic Ithrya-Khanaser road.

The sources underlined that the Syrian army and resistance forces are in full control of Ithrya-Khanaser road.

Ithrya-Khanaser road is used by the Syrian army to transfer military equipment to Aleppo province.

"The ISIL sites and positions near Khanaser came under the heavy attacks of the Syrian army and warplanes," the sources said, adding that the ISIL heavy and medium machineguns and military vehicles were destroyed in the attacks.

The terrorist group suffered a heavy death toll in the assaults too, according to the sources.

In a relevant development on Monday, the Syrian armed forces, backed up by Russian strikers, repelled a terrorist offensive near the city of Aleppo, killing over 800 militants and destroying 14 tanks.

“The Syrian army troops and Russian air force repelled a massive militant attack today. More than 800 militants were killed, and 14 tanks, 10 infantry fighting vehicles, and more than 60 technical vehicles with mounted weapons were destroyed,” Chief of the Main Operational Directorate of the General Staff Lt. Gen. Sergei Rudskoy said on Monday.

Rudskoy noted that militants continued to pull reserves from other areas in an effort to undermine the government troops' resolve, and prevent the local population’s escape from the combat zone in an effort to use them as human shield.

“Thus, the terrorists executed four people attempting to exit through the humanitarian corridors yesterday in the Eastern part of Aleppo,” he said.

Rudskoy noted that, unlike the US-led anti-ISIL coalition active near Manbij, Russian aircraft do their utmost to avoid collateral civilian damage by not targeting populated areas within city limits.

“The Russian Aerospace Force actively supports government troops in repelling enemy attacks, carrying out selective strikes on militant positions,” he told reporters.