http://www.dailytrust.com.ng/news/general/kidnappers-of-ex-minister-husband-demand-n10m-ransom/165333.html
180
18
The kidnappers of a former Minister of Environment, Mrs. Laurentia Mallam and her husband are demanding N10 million ransom for their release, the minister’s former aide, Jonathan Asake, told Daily Trust yesterday.

Asake said Laurentia, her husband, Mr. Pius Malam and other people were kidnapped on the Jere /Bwari road along the Kaduna-Abuja expressway some minutes before 7.00 pm Monday while going to Kaduna from Abuja.

“They were heading to Kaduna and we were going to Abuja, they told us it was a robbery, so we stopped and were hearing gunshots. We waited for the police to come, they later came around 10pm and told us it was a kidnap and that she was one of those kidnapped,” Jonathan said.He said the minister was on her way from a funeral and that the kidnappers shot and wounded the driver and took his mobile phone, which they used to contact the family. The former aide said he was with the children of the former minister and had spoken to the kidnappers.“We just finished talking with the people right now, together with the children, we are just going left, right and centre to see how we can get something because they have placed a ransom of N10 million,” he said.He said the police had been notified and the family’s vehicle was in a police station in Jere but that the police were yet to make any statement. Kaduna State police spokesman, ASP Aliyu Usman, confirmed that Laurentia and her husband were seized by six men who left the driver behind.“At about 7.45pm on Monday, the driver of a vehicle, one Aminu Yashim, came to the Divisional Police Headquarters, Jere and reported that six armed men blocked the road along Bwari/Jere axis and kidnapped the minister and her husband.“We have launched a man hunt and deployed the Technical Response Unit and the Anti Kidnapping Unit of the command to the affected area to ensure they secure the release of the victims,” he said. He could not confirm the N10m ransom demand but assured that all hands were on deck to ensure their release.The kidnap came a few days after Margaret, the wife of the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele, was kidnapped. Mrs. Emefiele was later freed after the intervention by security agencies. It would also be recalled among other cases, that three pastors were recently abducted from their church along the Kaduna-Abuja expressway and the abductors reportedly demanded N100m for their freedom. They regained freedom after 10 days.An Army Colonel, Samaila Inusa, who was also kidnapped on Saturday, March 26 at the Kamazo area of Kaduna metropolis along the Kaduna Refinery Road in Chikun LGA of Kaduna State, was not so lucky as his body was later found in a bush after some days’ search.