http://nation.com.pk/lahore/21-Jul-2016/another-child-abduction-sparks-strong-protest
180
18
LAHORE - Hundreds of people took to streets yesterday after another young boy was abducted from Lahore’s Badami Bagh neighbourhood.



The latest victim was named by police as Muhammad Yaseen, who went to offer Fajr prayers at a local mosque but did not come back home.

The police yesterday filed another case of abduction against unidentified kidnappers and launched investigations to unearth the gangsters.

However, no arrest is made yet.



Yaseen, according to police record, is the fifth boy who has been abducted by unknown men from the densely populated locality during the last one and a half month.

Last week, the mutilated body of a 10-year-old was discovered from a drain while another three children, aged three to eight, are still missing.



Police are yet to trace the whereabouts of the missing children as panic and terror gripped the entire locality.

Shafique Mughal told the police that his 13-year-old son, Yaseen, went to mosque as usual but disappeared under mysterious circumstances.



Hundreds of locals gathered outside the house of Yaseen in Muhammadia Colony as the news of his abduction spread in the vicinity.

They marched towards the Azadi Chowk where they staged a strong protest demonstration against the police.



The protesters blocked the main road by setting tyres on fire and chanted slogans against the city police and the provincial government.

The two-hour long protest triggered worst traffic mess in the busy locality as motorists were seen trapped in the traffic jumbles.



The poor families complained that the investigators did not take the abduction cases seriously unless they discovered the dead body of one of the five victims.

The protesters demanded that the police and other law enforcement agencies “should do something” to trace their children.



“They (police) are incompetent and corrupt.

They are unable to solve such cases of heinous crimes.

Who will help us and who will bring back our children,” asked Muhammad Ishaq, who was protesting over the abduction of his five-year-old relative.



Another protester, Ghulam Hussain said: “I don’t know my nephew is alive or dead.

We don’t know what happened to him.

Where are the police and what they are doing?”

Some of the protesters were planning to besieging the Chief Minister’s Secretariat to protest the terrible happenings if the police failed to recover the children within 24 hours.



Meanwhile, heavy police contingents including senior officers concerned reached the spot and assured the angry protesters that the children would be recovered soon.

The police officers managed to disperse the protesters after holding a series of negotiations with them.



When contacted, Lahore DIG (Investigations) and SSP (Investigations) were not available for their comments.

A local police investigator, however, told The Nation that they could not make any breakthrough in the cases of children abductions.

“We are also shocked and worried.

We don’t know what is happening here.

The situation is very terrible,” the officer replied while requesting anonymity.



Factually, police investigators are groping in the dark since the children went missing from the Badami Bagh police precincts.

During the last one and a half month, five children were abducted by unidentified criminals from the commercial and populated area.



The police registered five separate cases of abductions since June but have failed to trace the whereabouts of four children.

So far, the victims are identified by police as 12-year-old Yaseen, 10-year-old Muhammad Umair, eight-year-old Fahad, seven-year-old Sameer and two and a half year old Daim Ali.



On Friday, one of the victims was found stuffed in a plastic bag from a drain located in the same Badami Bagh locality.

The sack-packed body was identified as Muhammad Umair, son of Shabbir Ahmed.

Investigators say Umair was sexually assaulted by merciless killers.

The boy went on missing under mysterious circumstances from outside his house some two weeks ago.



Rescue workers said Umair’s body was decomposed and beyond recognition.

The father of the victim had identified his son after witnessing a black wristband tied his right hand.

Police registered a murder case against unknown killers and launched the investigations.

But no arrest has been made so far.



The Badami Bagh area houses truck and bus stands with many strangers including Afghan nationals roaming there.

The city’s largest fruits and vegetables market is also located in the same vicinity.

Like several other parts of the city, the children are most vulnerable to abductions and rape in this area.



Three weeks ago, CM Shehbaz took notice of the kidnappings of children in Badami Bagh and had sought a report from authorities.

However, investigators are unable to trace the whereabouts of Sameer, Fahad, Yaseen, and Daim Ali.



The provincial police in its 2013 report had revealed that the incidents of child abuse were on the rise across the Punjab province.

Of 2,576 rape incidents reported in 2013, the victims in 167 cases were children.

