http://www.philstar.com/headlines/2016/07/03/1599029/beheaded-canadians-body-found-sulu
1823
18
ZAMBOANGA CITY, Philippines – The body of Canadian Robert Hall, who was beheaded by the Abu Sayyaf last month, was found in Talipao, Sulu yesterday.

Maj. Filemon Tan, spokesman of the Western Mindanao Command, said Hall’s decomposing body was dug up by troops from the Joint Task Group Sulu (JTGS) in Barangay Upper Kamuntayan in Talipao.

Tan said villagers reported finding the headless body shortly before noon yesterday.

Hall was beheaded on June 13 after the deadline for ransom payment lapsed.

Hall was among four people abducted by the Abu Sayyaf in September last year from aboard yachts at a tourist resort on Samal Island off Davao City.

Another Canadian kidnapped at the same time, John Ridsdel, was beheaded in April after a similar ransom demand of P300 million was not paid.

Headlines ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1

Hall’s Filipina girlfriend Marites Flor was released on June 24, while Norwegian resort manager Kjartan Sekkingstad is still held captive by the bandits.

Tan said the remains would be turned over to the Philippine National Police Crime Laboratory in Camp Crame.

“Western Mindanao Command decries the barbaric act of the Abu Sayyaf in beheading its captives, which can be described as contrary to the Islamic teachings,” Tan said in a statement.

He added “focused” operations are now underway against the bandit group in Sulu, possibly to rescue the remaining hostage.

Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) chief Lt. Gen. Ricardo Visaya revealed the move to place the island provinces of Sulu and Basilan under martial law is being studied.

Visaya said a command conference led by President Duterte was held at the AFP headquarters in Camp Aguinaldo last Friday.

“After our conference with the President, a lot of things will happen in Sulu and Basilan in the next few days,” Visaya told The STAR.

“There will be executive orders coming out in the days to come. A lot of things will happen out there,” he added.

A series of intelligence reports showed a number of local officials in the two provinces, along with some villagers, are helping the Abu Sayyaf in exchange for a cut in the ransom collected.

The military also claimed some civilians are acting as professional negotiators. – Jaime Laude