http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bareilly/Another-NH-horror-in-Uttar-Pradesh-This-time-19-year-old-assaulted/articleshow/53514004.cms
1821
18
waylaying the vehicle

Akhilesh Yadav government on Sunday suspended

MEERUT: A day after a dozen-odd robbers gang-raped a 35-year-old Noida woman and her teenage daughter near Bulandshahr afterin which the family of six was travelling on the Delhi-Kanpur highway, three suspects were arrested on Sunday as a massive manhunt was launched to nab those involved in the shocking crime.Under attack over sliding law and order situation in UP in the run-up to the assembly elections, theBulandshahr senior superintendent of police Vaibhav Krishan for dereliction of duty. Six others, including SP (city) Rammohan Singh, circle officer (Sadar) Himanshu Gaurav and SHO Ramsen Singh of Kotwali Dehat, too were suspended." The arrested include Raees Ahmad, a resident of Sutari village very close to the scene of crime, Mohammed Shahvez of Hapur, and Jabar Singh, who lives on Delhi-Noida border. Police recovered Rs 5,500 cash and a gold chain from them," DIG (Meerut) Lakshmi Singh told TOI.Following Akhilesh Yadav's order to top officials to visit Bulandshahr, meet the survivors and take first-hand stock of police action, Uttar Pradesh DGP Javeed Ahmad and principal secretary (home) Debasish Panda arrived in the district on Sunday and held closed-door meetings with district officials.Later in the day, Ahmad told reporters, "The survivors have identified Babloo Chand Bawaria, a resident of Faridabad. Another one Naresh Singh is from Bhatinda in Punjab and the third is Raees Ahmad who belongs to local Sutari village close to the scene of crime. One of the three has criminal antecedents and has even spent some time in prison."All measures will be taken to bring the culprits to justice. We will recommend the case to be transferred to fast track court for speedy justice," the DGP added.DIG Singh told TOI, "On Saturday, close to 200 photographs were shown to the victims, out of which they identified three, who belong to various nomadic tribes. We detained 18 persons to extract information about the trio. On Saturday night, raids were conducted at the makeshift establishments of the nomads and the identities of the three were confirmed. We will arrest them soon."Singh said a special team of 300 police personnel with experience in dealing with criminals from nomadic tribes have been sourced from Ghaziabad, Noida, Hapur and Meerut to work the case. Additional director general (law and order) Daljeet Chaudhary said that a total of 15 police teams were now involved in the operations and the case would be cracked soon. The CM has given the home department a deadline of 24 hours to crack the case and nab the culprits.Meanwhile, district magistrate Anjaniya Singh announced a compensation package of Rs 50,000 each to the two survivors as DIG Singh confirmed that medical reports pointed to sexual assault. "The monetary help has been provided by Red Cross Society for the treatment of the survivors," the DM said.A team of national commission for women (NCW) also arrived in the city on Sunday and inspected the scene of the crime. Later, NCW member Rekha Sharma said, "The incident is a result of lackadaisical attitude of police and we will seek report from the UP government. Right now, the minor victim is traumatised and is also running fever. Her rehabilitation is our primary concern. Once she is a little better, we will conduct counselling sessions for her."The family from Sector 68 in Noida was on its way to Shahjahanpur on Friday night to attend the terahnvi (rituals held 13 days after a death) of a relative when their car was waylaid near Dostpur village of Bulandshahr. The robbers took the family at gunpoint, dragged the women into a nearby field and gang-raped them. Later, they snatched Rs 11,000 and some jewellery from the victims and melted into the darkness. The family remained stranded on the deserted stretch, their car stuck in the mud until Saturday morning when an FIR was lodged.