http://blogs.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/toi-editorials/highway-horror-police-up-roads-there-is-no-point-building-them-if-they-are-too-unsafe-to-travel/
1823
18
The gang rape of a 35-year-old woman and her 14-year-daughter on the Delhi-Kanpur National Highway (NH) 91 in Bulandshahr district last week triggered nationwide outrage. That it happened just 65 km from the national capital put the spotlight not just on deteriorating law and order, but more specifically on practically zero policing of highways. What has now made matters worse is senior UP minister Azam Khan’s brazen defence of the gang rape by terming it a political conspiracy. Rather than focussing on better policing methods to improving law and order, Khan has undermined the damage control by chief minister Akhilesh Yadav when the latter suspended Bulandshahr’s top cops including senior superintendent of police, Vaibhav Krishna, for dereliction of duty.

As if the horrific incident was not enough, a schoolteacher was allegedly gang raped barely 500 metres from Delhi-Lucknow NH 24 in Bareilly two days ago. UP has a sorry record of rising crime on national highways where anti-social elements are emboldened due to an insensitive police force. Another gang rape in Bulandshahr – just 12 days before the latest incident on NH 91 – has also come to light where the police did not even bother to escort the survivor to a safe place, let alone bring the culprits to justice. The main perpetrators in all these cases still remain at large.

Forty passengers aboard a bus were robbed on NH 91 on Monday, punching holes in police claims of having intensified patrolling. NIA officer Tanzil Ahmed was shot dead in a car on the Seohara Bijnore highway in April, while robbers decamped with 8 kg of gold after shooting dead a courier van driver on the Lucknow-Kanpur highway last week. According to the 2014 National Crime Records Bureau report, a whopping 65,000 of the total 84,000 crimes committed on national highways across the country happened in UP alone.

Loudmouths like Azam Khan need to be publicly censured for demeaning rape survivors by playing petty politics. There is no point in the government building good roads and highways if it cannot ensure safety of travellers. It must take immediate measures like competent policing, inducting more women in the police force, making people aware of helpline numbers, patrolling highways and quickly responding to calls when incidents are reported.