http://www.independent.ie/irish-news/crime/brother-of-screwdriver-killer-stabbed-to-death-in-dublin-flat-complex-34890157.html
182
18
A brother of double killer David Curran was stabbed to death in Dublin yesterday.

A brother of double killer David Curran was stabbed to death in Dublin yesterday.

A brother of double killer David Curran was stabbed to death in Dublin yesterday.

Paul 'Paulie' Curran McGuirk suffered serious stab wounds at Seagull House, on Rutland Avenue in Dolphin’s Barn, at around 4pm on Saturday.

Paul Curran McGuirk

He was rushed by ambulance to St James’s Hospital, where he was later pronounced dead. Gardaí last night arrested a man and a woman, both aged 18, in connection with the attack.

They are currently detained at Crumlin and Sundrive Road Garda Stations under the provisions of Section 4 of the Criminal Justice Act 1984. The young man was a brother of David Curran, who is serving life for the brutal murder of two Polish immigrants, in a case that shocked the nation in 2008.

Seagull House

David Curran was just 17 when he stabbed Pawel Kalite (28) and Marius Szwaijkos (27) to death with a screwdriver outside their home on Benbulben Road, Drimnagh. He claimed he was ‘off his head’ on drink and drugs when he attacked the men, believing his father had been attacked by Mr Kalite.

Today's fatal stabbing in Crumlin was wrong. Another family left grieving.Those involved must face justice. @DubCityCouncil @DublinSinnFein — Cllr. Daithí Doolan (@DaithiDoolan) July 16, 2016

Curran’s family home was later set alight in an arson attack while his mother and siblings, including Paul, were inside. They managed to jump out a window to escape the blaze. Read More: Family of screwdriver killer jump for their lives after arson attack on home Paulie Curran was not suspected of being involved in serious crime and gardaí in Sundrive Road station are investigating if his death is linked to a localised dispute among "low-level drug dealers".

Tributes were paid to Curran on social media last night and this morning. Friend Paddy Maughan wrote: "You were like an older brother to me Paulie Mc Guirk Curran. The time you got me out of the garda station anal (sic) love you bro rip never forget about you your (sic) one in a kind the laugh we used to have rest in paradise."

Ireland's Teen Killers on TV3 - David Curran was 17 when he killed Pawel Kalite & Marius Swajkos (murder)

Local councillor Daithí Doolan (SF) tweeted: "Today's fatal stabbing in Crumlin was wrong. Another family left grieving. Those involved must face justice." While Curran is not believed to have serious criminal convictions, his father Michael McGuirk, was part of a gang involved in a €240,000 tiger kidnapping in October 2009.

Read More: Screwdriver killer's father jailed for tiger kidnap role His trial heard how terrified bank official Nicola Hall woke in the middle of the night to find armed raiders in their home. The gang separated the couple from each other and photographed them with a gun put to their heads.

Michael McGuirk (45) of Captain’s Road, Crumlin, Dublin

Her husband John and two kids aged three and six were taken, while Ms Hall was forced to go to the Bank of Ireland in Inchicore where she worked. The gang escaped with the large sum of cash. McGuirk was later arrested when his fingerprints and DNA were found on a phonebox and van. He was jailed for ten years for the offence. David Curran is currently serving life for the double murder.

It is unlikely that either man will be released for Paul Curran McGuirk's funeral. Gardaí are continuing to examine the scene of yesterday's stabbing. It is preserved for a technical examination and the office of the State Pathologist has been notified. The post mortem is scheduled to take place on Sunday morning.

Gardaí wish to appeal for witnesses or to anyone who can assist with the investigation to contact them at Sundrive Road Garda Station on 01-666 6600, The Garda Confidential Telephone Line 1800 666 111 or any Garda Station.

Online Editors