http://leadership.ng/news/543180/shehu-of-bamas-wife-daughter-freed-from-2-years-boko-haram-captivity
182
18
There was jubilation in Maiduguri, the Borno State capital yesterday, following the rescue of the wife and daughter of the Shehu of Bama, Umar Ibn Kyari El Kanemi, who were abducted from the Shehu’s palace by Boko Haram insurgents when they attacked Bama town in 2014.

The General Officer Commanding (GOC), 7 Division, Nigerian Army, Maiduguri, Brig-Gen Victor Ezugwu, who brought the queen and her daughter to the Shehu’s residence in Maiduguri at about 1:30pm yesterday, said troops rescued them during a clearance operation in the Damboa axis of Borno State.

Queen Hajju was abducted alongside her son and daughter at the Shehu’s palace in Bama, but the son was reportedly killed by the insurgents.

Residents of the town as well as friends and relations trooped to the Maiduguri home of the Shehu along Circular Road, Old GRA, to felicitate with the royal house over the safe return of the queen and her daughter.

A family source who preferred anonymity, disclosed that when the royal father sighted his wife and daughter, he wept profusely while other family members jostled to embrace the queen and her daughter, amid tears of joy.

“We are happy to see our queen and her daughter back, but it is unfortunate to learn that Boko Haram has killed her son who was kidnapped along with the queen,” the family source said.

Some of the dignitaries who visited the Shehu’s palace to welcome the returnees were the wife of the governor, Hajiya Nana Shettima; deputy governor of the state, Alhaji Usman Mamman Durkwa and other state officials.

Bama, the second largest local government in Borno, is the town that has borne the heaviest burden of the Boko Haram insurgency, as virtually all buildings in the city, including the Shehu’s palace, were destroyed as residents, including the king himself, fled to Maiduguri.

Since the Boko Haram invasion of Bama two years ago, it has remained a ghost town except for the presence of military personnel and an internally displaced persons (IDPs) camp at Bama General Hospital, which hosts over 25,000 IDPs rescued from Boko Haram enclaves around Sambisa Forest which is very close to Bama.

Sambisa was the operational base of the insurgents but troops have consistently razed the place to exterminate them.

Meanwhile, the Nigerian Army yesterday said it had to revert to refurbished equipment to fight Boko Haram as modern weaponry and equipment are expensive.

Speaking at the opening ceremony of the 2016 Combat Support Arms Training Week in Maiduguri, the chief of army staff, Lt-Gen Tukur Buratai, said the “acquisition of modern weaponry and equipment such as the latest artillery guns, bomb disposal equipment and cipher instrument to mention a few are quite expensive.”

Buratai who was represented by the Army’s chief of training and operations, Maj-Gen Hassan Umaru, said: “The Nigerian Army had, therefore, decided in its wisdom to refurbish and re-modify existing equipment to meet the realities of the times.

“This is what informed the tasking of the Special Vehicle Plant (SVP) located in Bauchi to undertake some daunting repair projects. Some of the vehicles sent there for re-modification or refurbishment have been certified serviceable for operational purposes and released to the end-users.”

He assured that the military would continue to look inwards and take advantage of available competences “to navigate the dilemma of operational exigencies and inadequate government resources to procure new equipment.”

He noted that the maintenance of equipment was everybody’s business and that it required attitude change from every soldier.

The COAS further stated that having gone through the theme of the training, “Countering Asymmetric Warfare in the 21st Century: The Role of Combat Supporting Arms,” he was confident that the topics and resource persons for the training week had been carefully selected to ensure professional capacity.

He added that there was no doubt that the outcome of the event would contribute positively to the decision making process of the Nigerian Army in its quest to effectively carry out its assigned constitutional roles.