http://www.sfgate.com/world/article/Islamic-State-recruits-in-Southeast-Asia-a-rising-8378889.php
180
18
Islamic State recruits in Southeast Asia a rising threat

Photo: Associated Press Image 1 of / 1 Caption Close Image 1 of 1 Abu Sayyaf members in Basilan, the Philippines, are best known for banditry and kidnappings. Abu Sayyaf members in Basilan, the Philippines, are best known for banditry and kidnappings. Photo: Associated Press Islamic State recruits in Southeast Asia a rising threat 1 / 1 Back to Gallery

JAKARTA, Indonesia — Ineffectual attacks by the Islamic State group’s followers in Southeast Asia have shown them to be fragmented and lacking in the expertise that has produced devastating death tolls elsewhere in the world.

But terrorism experts say the threat from the militants, spread across predominantly Muslim Indonesia, Malaysia and the southern Philippines, should not be underestimated and they could be transformed into a more dangerous force by training and leadership.

There are plenty of signs radicals in the region have been animated by Islamic State leader Abu Bakar al Baghdadi’s call for attacks and the group’s ambition to create Southeast Asian provinces of the Islamic State caliphate even as it loses territory in Syria and Iraq.

A grenade blast at a bar outside Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, in June was acknowledged by police as the first Islamic State attack in the country, where more than 150 people have been detained for involvement with the militant group since 2014. It injured eight people but caused no deaths.

A suicide bombing directed against police last week in the Indonesian city of Solo killed only the bomber, who police said was a friend of Bahrun Naim, one of the hundreds of Indonesians with Islamic State in Syria and who has been linked to other plots in Indonesia.

“The IS threat has increased across the region but from a relatively low base,” said Sidney Jones, director of the Institute for Policy Analysis of Conflict. “We are seeing more connections. The likelihood of communications across national boundaries is higher,” she said.

Islamic State has also attracted the support of long-established networks of fighters. Abu Sayyaf, a group in the southern Philippines that professes radical Islamic ideology but which is better known for banditry and kidnappings, has declared allegiance to the Islamic State.