http://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2016/10/04/asia-pacific/politics-diplomacy-asia-pacific/despite-dutarte-tirades-philippines-u-s-hold-war-games/
186
18
U.S. and Philippine forces opened joint combat exercises under some uncertainty Tuesday, days after the Philippines’ new leader said they would be the last such drills of his six-year presidency.

Marine commanders from both sides said at the opening ceremony that the exercises, involving 1,100 American and 400 Filipino military personnel, are aimed at improving readiness by the two countries to respond to a range of crises while deepening their historic ties.

President Rodrigo Duterte has sustained a verbal assault on the United States, the Philippines’ former colonial ruler and mutual defense partner, since he took office on June 30 in response to criticism of his deadly war on crime.

Duterte has in recent days threatened to scrap a defense pact implemented by his predecessor that was meant to see more U.S. troops in the Philippines to counter Chinese expansion in the South China Sea.

“Better think twice now because I will be asking you to leave the Philippines altogether,” Duterte said on Sunday in his latest outburst against the Americans, full of typical invective.

“The Americans, I don’t like them … they are reprimanding me in public. So I say: ‘Screw you, f—- you,’ ” he said, while signaling again that he wanted to forge closer alliances with China and Russia.

U.S. Embassy officials said Washington has not been formally notified by the Philippine government of any move to scrap other planned drills. Such a move by the Philippines would impede Washington’s plans to expand the footprint of U.S. forces in Southeast Asia to counter China.

A Philippine military spokesman for the ongoing exercises, Capt. Ryan Lacuesta, sidestepped the question of whether Duterte’s remarks have affected the troops and the atmosphere of the drills, partly staged to improve camaraderie between the two combat forces.

“As much as I would like to answer that question, I would leave that to higher authorities,” Lacuesta said Tuesday.

U.S. Marine Brig. Gen. John Jansen said that aside from promoting regional security, the exercises have helped save lives in terms of fostering more rapid and organized responses to disasters like the deadly 2013 devastation wrought by Typhoon Haiyan in the central Philippines.

Citing a much-awaited drill that involves American and Filipino marines wading ashore in an amphibious beach landing and in boat raids, Jansen said the exercise “is not just about projecting power from the sea, it is about growing a capability.”

Last week Duterte, 71, also claimed the CIA was plotting to assassinate him.

This came after he branded Barack Obama a “son of a bitch” in response to being told the U.S. president planned to raise human rights concerns over his drug war.

Duterte has vowed to eradicate illegal drugs in the Philippines, warning the nation is in danger of becoming a narcotics state.

His crime war has seen more than 3,000 people killed, with the United Nations, the European Union and rights groups raising concerns about alleged extrajudicial killings and a breakdown in the rule of law.

Duterte has insisted he is not doing anything illegal, yet at the same time said he would be “happy to slaughter” 3 million drug users.

He also likened his crime war to Nazi leader Adolf Hitler’s effort to exterminate Jews, but following an outcry apologized for referring to the Holocaust.

A total of two thousand troops from the two sides are taking part in the war games, including in waters close to flash point areas of the South China Sea.

China claims nearly all of the sea, even waters close to the Philippines and other Southeast Asian nations, and has in recent years built artificial islands in the disputed areas capable of hosting military bases.

To counter China, the Philippines’ previous president, Benigno Aquino III, sought to draw the United States closer. This included the signing of the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement that Duterte now wants to scrap.

Duterte appears intent on adopting the opposite tactic, saying recently he hopes to travel to China and meet with President Xi Jinping.

Aquino also launched international legal action that in July saw a U.N.-backed tribunal declare China’s vast claims in the sea illegal.

However Duterte has declined to use the verdict to pressure China.

He has also said there will be no joint patrols with the United States in the sea.

Still, Duterte’s comments have not filtered down into government policy, and it remains unclear to what extent he is prepared to damage ties with the United States.

“The (U.S. military) relationship has not changed as of today,” Philippine defense department spokesman Arsenio Andolong said Monday.

The U.S. Embassy in Manila urged the Philippines on Tuesday to live up to previous agreements.

“We will continue to honor our alliance commitments, and we expect the Philippines to do the same,” U.S. Embassy spokeswoman Molly Koscina said.

In Washington, Pentagon spokesman Navy Captain Jeff Davis said the military was aware of Duterte’s comments.

But “it hasn’t really so much translated into tangible actions that we’ve seen with regards to our actions under the alliance,” he said.