http://www.express.co.uk/news/uk/712887/Child-sex-abuse-victim-goes-public-blast-attacked-paedophile-jailed
180
18
ARCHANT Sianne Mann has come forward as a victim after her tormentor Nicholas Tilley was jaied

Sianne Mann, 36, hopes sex abuse victims living in silence will be inspired to come forward as Nicholas Tilley, 47, began his jail sentence. Defiant Mrs Mann said she "hated" Tilley after it took almost three decades for her to find the courage to report her tormentor to police. It then emerged that the paedophile had also abused another young schoolgirl.

And a court heard Tilley had also been jailed in 2008 for child sex crimes. The thug assaulted Mrs Mann, whose marriage has collapsed under the intense strain, when she was just seven while his then-girlfriend was child-minding her. Almost 30 years on, Mrs Mann, of Ipswich, Suffolk, last night said depraved Tilley had "destroyed her life" but declared: "Now, I'm relieved.

ARCHANT Tilley was sentenced to seven years in prison

It haunted me every day Sianne Mann

"I feel like I'm not scared of him any more because I stood up to him. "If there are girls out there who are scared to come forward - don't be scared, talk to someone. "You don't have to go through it on your own." Tilley was jailed for seven years last week at Ipswich Crown Court for assaults on Mrs Mann and another girl. He targeted Mrs Mann at her family home in Stowmarket, Suffolk, in the 1980s. At the time Tilley also lived in the area.

ARCHANT The sick paedophile abused Sianne Mann when she was seven years old

Mrs Mann, who had a son at 17, said: "It was something that haunted me every day. "There wasn't a day that went by that it wasn't in my head at least once. "It affected my relationships with friends and family. "I hate him. "He's destroyed my life. "I had another life planned - my family had another life planned for me. "Because of what he did I went completely off the rails." She added: "I became a delinquent. "I was running off. "It was like I couldn't be in the house. "My relationship with my mum went downhill.

GETTY Tilley was sentenced at Ipswich Crown Court

"At 11 years old I went to live with my grandmother because it became traumatic for my mum. "I was a good little girl before it happened. "I was that sweet little girl that everyone liked. "Then by the age of nine or 10 I was horrible. "By 13 to 14 I was mixing with drugs and alcohol, and used them to let things out. "At 17 I had my son and got my life back on track. "I managed to bury what happened. "He was my saviour."

ARCHANT Ms Mann says the abuse destroyed her life and relationships