http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3822499/Heartbroken-family-desperate-fly-body-hairdresser-stabbed-death-Muslim-husband-converted-Christianity-Iran.html
182
18
The friends and family of a hairdresser who was allegedly stabbed to death by her husband have set up a fundraising campaign in a bid to send her body home to Iran for burial.

Nasrin Abek, 35, was found dead inside her apartment in Potts Point, Sydney, last week after she was allegedly killed by her husband in a frenzied knife attack.

Iranian man Amir Darbanou, 42, was charged with the murder of his wife. Police will allege part of the man's motivation stemmed from Ms Abek's recent decision to convert from Islam to Christianity, 7 News reported.

Loved ones are now trying to raise money to have Ms Abek's body flown home to Iran, where her family lives. She moved to Australia just four years ago.

Scroll down for video

Sydney hairdresser Nasrin Abek was found dead inside her apartment in Potts Point last week

The 35-year-old (left) was allegedly killed by her husband Amir Darbanou (right) in a frenzied knife attack because she converted from Islam to Christianity

Police made the gruesome discovery when they forced entry into the couple's home and found Ms Abek dead with multiple stab wounds last Thursday morning

One of the woman's friends wrote on the fundraising page that her parents were 'desperate' to get their daughter's body back to Iran so they could grieve properly for her.

'They haven't seen her for four years - and now they just want to bury her death [sic] body back in her home country,' the post read.

'We are raising money for Nasrin so we can send her body back to Iran as soon as possible. Please help us , your little help would make a big difference.'

The page aims to raise $15,000 and has so far fetched more than $2,500 since the campaign was set up two days ago.

Police said there was no known history of domestic violence between the couple but neighbours had reported hearing screaming coming from the apartment on Wednesday night

Ms Abek moved from Iran to Australia four years ago and recently converted to Christianity

Police discovered Ms Abek's body when they forced entry into the couple's home in the early hours of Thursday morning.

A relative had raised concerns for the woman's welfare after Mr Darbanou allegedly called to say she was dead, on Wednesday night.

The 42-year-old did not enter a plea or apply for bail when he appeared in Sydney's Central Local Court on Friday.

Police said there was no known history of domestic violence between the couple, who had been living in Australia for four years on bridging visas.