http://zeenews.india.com/news/goa/monika-ghurde-murder-stripped-goa-perfumer-to-make-mms-to-blackmail-her-says-accused_1938667.html
180
18
Panajai: Rajkumar Singh, the former watchman at Sapana Raj Valley at Sangolda, where noted Goa perfume expert Monika Ghurde's was found dead, has revealed before the interrogators why and how he executed his plan to murder the latter.

A Times Of India report said on Tuesday that Singh had admitted before the cops that he undressed Ghurde completely to make MMS video clip in order to blackmail her later.

The Goa Police, probing the case, however, said that it is yet to ascertain whether Singh also assaulted Ghurde sexually.

21-year-old Rajkumar was employed as a watchman at Sapana Raj Valley at Sangolda, where Ghurde used to live.

Singh, a native of Bathinda, Punjab, was arrested on Sunday afternoon from Bengaluru and brought to Goa by road on a transit warrant.

The ToI report also quoted a senior police official as saying, ''Singh, during his interrogation in Bengaluru, had said that after smothering Ghurde, he thought she was unconscious.''

"We still don't know whether Singh had actually filmed Ghurde," he added.

Detailing what he did on the day of crime, Singh told cops that after smothering her, he went into the kitchen, boiled two eggs and ate them. He was under impression that she would wake up.

However, Ghurde was lying 'unconscious', so he checked on her again and after realising that she had died, he fled from the spot.

Cop say that Singh was familiar with the layout of the society since he had worked there as watchman. Singh is believed to have entered the compound afternoon by jumping over the rear fence.

He would be produced before the judicial magistrate first class, Mapusa, today during which cops would seek his custody for further interrogation.

The Goa Police had managed to arrest Singh after they obtained CCTV footage of him withdrawing money from an ATM in Porvorim using Ghurde's ATM card. He had travelled from Goa to Mangaluru by train and stayed there for a day before boarding a bus to Bengaluru, police added.

Rajkumar told police that he entered Ghurde's flat on Wednesday with the intention of robbing her. He entered the flat, flashed a knife, threatening her to keep quiet. He later tied her hands to the bed at knife-point and took her ATM card and forced her personal identification number (PIN) from her.