https://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2016/oct/11/killer-clown-craze-uk-sightings-police-warning
180
18
The craze for dressing as clowns to frighten people is likely to get worse in the run-up to Halloween, say police, as a teenager became one of the first “killer clowns” to be fined for public order offences.

The Metropolitan police warned people dressing as clowns that they could be committing an offence, saying that the prank “can leave people feeling scared, anxious and intimidated”.

“While we do not want to stop people from enjoying themselves, it is important that while having fun they remember to act in a responsible manner and understand that they could be prosecuted if a criminal offence is committed,” Cdr Julian Bennett said.

The warning came as police forces across Britain said they had received multiple reports of clown sightings by frightened members of the public, after the fancy dress craze, which has snowballed in the US over the past month, spread to the UK.

An 18-year-old from South Wales was arrested and fined £90 for a public order offence after dressing as a clown and jumping out at pupils as they left school.



Connor Jones admitted scaring children outside St Cenydd comprehensive and neighbouring Hendre infants school on Friday, forcing staff to alert students via a messaging app.

Warning: contains strong language







Ch Insp Paul Staniforth said: “Gwent police will not tolerate such behaviour and anyone seeking to cause distress and potential harm to anyone will be dealt with. In this case, not only is this man out of pocket, he will now have a criminal record which will impact his future, including any job opportunities.”

West Midlands police said they had arrested a 13-year-old schoolboy after he allegedly assaulted another teenager while wearing a clown mask. The boy is accused of grabbing his 14-year-old victim in West Bromwich on Saturday. He was arrested shortly afterwards on suspicion of assault and bailed pending further inquiries.

A man walking home alone in Bournemouth was grabbed and dragged along the street by an assailant wearing a clown costume. Dorset police has appealed for witnesses to the incident, which occurred at about 11pm on Friday.

In Southampton, a 13-year-old boy dressed in a clown mask sustained minor injuries after being hit by a car on Monday evening