http://www.news.com.au/national/gold-coast-waitress-mia-ayliffechung-ditched-sunshine-coast-for-home-hill-after-bad-vibe-from-farm/news-story/1318b1ca0bba7247ca7e2cbe1fc25019
182
18
Video

Image AU QLD: French Citizen Charged With Murder of British Woman August 25 4:30 A 29-year-old French man has been charged with murder, attempted murder, cruelty to animals and assaulting police after he was arrested for the stabbing of Mia Ayliffe-Chung. On the evening August 23, police arrived to find the 21-year-old British woman dead at the scene after she was stabbed multiple times with a kitchen knife. The suspect, who has not been named, was caught on police body camera saying ?Allahu Ackbar? several times before he was capsicum sprayed and detained. Police have ruled out any political or religious motivation behind the attack, and Detective Superintendent Ray Rohweder said Ayliffe-Chung had no interest in the offender. The man will appear via video link at Townsville magistrate court on August 26. Credit: Queensland Police

Ryan Keen Gold Coast Bulletin

THE Gold Coast waitress killed in the North Queensland hostel rampage was only there because of a last-minute decision not to go to the Sunshine Coast as planned.

In a cruel twist of fate, Mia Ayliffe-Chung pulled the pin on a Sunshine Coast farm stint to extend her Australian visa because of a bad vibe from the farm boss.

The popular 20-year-old, and fellow Gold Coast-based Brits Chris Porter and Sam Gostelow, instead changed their plans and went to Home Hill near Townsville at Miss Ayliffe-Chung’s insistence.

MIA - ‘BUBBLY, CONFIDENT AND LIFE OF THE PARTY’

Mr Gostelow said the Sunshine Coast farm boss had “sounded odd” when they called to confirm their plans.

photo gallery Remembering Mia Mia Ayliffe-Chung died after a stabbing attack in a hostel in Far North Queensland. Photo: Facebook Mia Ayliffe-Chung died last night after a stabbing attack in a hostel in Far North Queensland. Photo: Facebook Mia Ayliffe-Chung died after a stabbing attack in a hostel in Far North Queensland. Photo: Facebook Mia Ayliffe-Chung died after a stabbing attack in a hostel in Far North Queensland. Photo: Facebook Mia Ayliffe-Chung died after a stabbing attack in a hostel in Far North Queensland. Photo: Facebook Mia Ayliffe-Chung died after a stabbing attack in a hostel in Far North Queensland. Photo: Facebook Mia Ayliffe-Chung died after a stabbing attack in a hostel in Far North Queensland. Photo: Facebook Mia Ayliffe-Chung died after a stabbing attack in a hostel in Far North Queensland. Photo: Facebook Mia Ayliffe-Chung died after a stabbing attack in a hostel in Far North Queensland. Photo: Facebook Mia Ayliffe-Chung died after a stabbing attack in a hostel in Far North Queensland. Photo: Facebook Mia Ayliffe-Chung died after a stabbing attack in a hostel in Far North Queensland. Photo: Facebook Mia Ayliffe-Chung died after a stabbing attack in a hostel in Far North Queensland. Photo: Facebook Mia Ayliffe-Chung died after a stabbing attack in a hostel in Far North Queensland. Photo: Facebook Mia Ayliffe-Chung died after a stabbing attack in a hostel in Far North Queensland. Photo: Facebook Mia Ayliffe-Chung died after a stabbing attack in a hostel in Far North Queensland. Photo: Facebook Mia Ayliffe-Chung died after a stabbing attack in a hostel in Far North Queensland. Photo: Facebook Mia Ayliffe-Chung died after a stabbing attack in a hostel in Far North Queensland. Photo: Facebook Bianca Black, Sam Gostelow and Mia Ayliffe-Chung. Picture: Supplied Mia Ayliffe-Chung died after a stabbing attack in a hostel in Far North Queensland. Photo: Facebook Mia Ayliffe-Chung died after a stabbing attack in a hostel in Far North Queensland. Photo: Facebook Mia Ayliffe-Chung died after a stabbing attack in a hostel in Far North Queensland. Photo: Facebook Mia Ayliffe-Chung died after a stabbing attack in a hostel in Far North Queensland. Photo: Facebook Mia Ayliffe-Chung died after a stabbing attack in a hostel in Far North Queensland. Photo: Facebook Mia Ayliffe-Chung died after a stabbing attack in a hostel in Far North Queensland. Photo: Facebook Mia Ayliffe-Chung died after a stabbing attack in a hostel in Far North Queensland. Photo: Facebook Mia Ayliffe-Chung died after a stabbing attack in a hostel in Far North Queensland. Photo: Facebook 1 of 26 HIDE THUMBS

“Mia said, ‘We either go together or not at all’.”

The group then booked flights to Townsville and bunks at Home Hill’s Shelley’s Backpackers where Miss Ayliffe-Chung was stabbed to death just after 11pm on Tuesday.

Her killing occurred during a rampage which left a 30-year-old British man in Townsville Hospital with critical head injuries and a 46-year-old with non-life threatening injuries.

A pet dog was also killed.

Mr Porter, who leapt for his life out a second-storey window, was still in hospital yesterday with injuries to his heels but planning to return to the Coast.

Police yesterday charged 29-year-old French national Smail Ayad with murder, two counts of attempted murder and serious animal cruelty.

He is also facing 12 serious assault of police charges stemming from alleged incidents on his way to and at the Townsville watchhouse.

Ayad will appear in Townsville Magistrates Court this morning via video link because of concerns for police and public safety.

On the Gold Coast yesterday, Mr Gostelow was still “haunted” about missing the flight to Townsville.

He would have been in the dorm room when the attack occurred but did not go because he felt too disorganised and was recovering from their leaving drinks the night before.

“It’s probably the one time in my life where my disorganisation has worked in my favour,” he said.

Mr Gostelow, who worked with Miss Ayliffe-Chung at The Bedroom nightclub in Surfers Paradise, said he was in contact with her daily while she was away and they’d spoken just hours before she was killed.

“She was laughing at me and I said, ‘I’ll be there to annoy you in person at the weekend’.

“She said, ‘Yay, can’t wait’.

“That was it.”