http://www.news.com.au/national/queensland/crime/accused-backpacker-killer-smail-ayad-allegedly-attacked-and-bit-police-after-arrest/news-story/6476d1e49e67846cd3ba0992f83d3574
1823
18
Video

Image AU QLD: French Citizen Charged With Murder of British Woman August 25 4:30 A 29-year-old French man has been charged with murder, attempted murder, cruelty to animals and assaulting police after he was arrested for the stabbing of Mia Ayliffe-Chung. On the evening August 23, police arrived to find the 21-year-old British woman dead at the scene after she was stabbed multiple times with a kitchen knife. The suspect, who has not been named, was caught on police body camera saying ?Allahu Ackbar? several times before he was capsicum sprayed and detained. Police have ruled out any political or religious motivation behind the attack, and Detective Superintendent Ray Rohweder said Ayliffe-Chung had no interest in the offender. The man will appear via video link at Townsville magistrate court on August 26. Credit: Queensland Police

Chris McMahon and Liz Burke Townsville Bulletin

THE backpacker who allegedly butchered an innocent tourist and repeatedly stabbed another who tried to save her is accused of continuing his rampage while in police custody.

Police officers who worked to detain Smail Ayad, 29, after the brutal stabbing death of backpacker Mia Aycliffe-Chung at a hostel south of Townsville, were allegedly kicked, punched, headbutted and bitten by the accused murderer.

New details of the rampage and police struggle come as Ayad prepares to face Townsville Magistrates Court via video link today.

Reportedly worried the accused — who has been revealed to be a skilled fighter — could fly into another violent outburst, police have decided to keep the accused heavily guarded during his first court appearance.

“There are a number of concerns in relation to both officer and public safety, so in consultation with the defendant’s legal advisers we’ve agreed that video link would be the best possible way to take the matter forward,” Detective Superintendent Ray Rohweder told the Townsville Bulletin.

“In relation to his behaviour over the last couple of days, it is certainly important that we keep that in mind and ensure everyone is safe.”

On top of murder, attempted murder and serious animal cruelty charges, Ayad could have up to 12 counts of serious assault against police levelled against him.

Police will allege a handcuffed and shackled Ayad snapped about one kilometre from the Townsville watch house, unbuckling his seatbelt, while making threats against the two seasoned detectives after his arrest on Monday.

The car was pulled over and as soon as they stopped, Ayad allegedly grabbed the detective next to him and headbutted and elbowed him numerous times, splitting him open.

The driver also sustained injuries, including severe bruising to his ribs and cuts to his head.

When back up arrived, Ayad allegedly shaped up again, well and truly outnumbered, he was hit with capsicum spray, although it had no affect on the out-of-control prisoner.

By the time they got Ayad to the watch house, police will allege he was in the midst of a rampage, kicking the paddy wagon and itching for a fight.

It took seven officers to drag him from the wagon, kicking, punching and biting.

Once inside the watch house and still shackled police were forced to hit him with a Taser, which The Bulletin understands had little, to no affect on the fuming Ayad.

By the time he was locked away in the padded cell, several officers had been bitten, many with bruises and cuts. In total Ayad would have 12 counts of serious assault police levelled at him.

Police yesterday learned Ayad was an extremely well trained Muay Thai fighter, competing in Thailand and training around the world.

He most recently fought in a Thailand Superfights match as a main event last year, before travelling to Australia. He travelled from Perth to Home Hill where police will allege obsession Ms Ayliffe-Chung turned deadly.

Police are analysing Ayad’s various social media accounts as they work to piece together his past, and according to Mail Online, posts and bookmarks made by Ayad show an obsession with UFC ring girl Arianny Celeste.

The model and fighter, it has been noted, looks similar to Ms Ayliffe-Chung.

Police have described the scene of the alleged murder as “absolutely horrific” after viewing CCTV and officer body worn cameras.

“I’ve viewed the CCTV of what actually occurred. There’s no one that can view that CCTV that doesn’t come away feeling sick to the stomach. It’s just absolutely horrific,” Supt Rohweder said.

Ms Ayliffe-Chung, the beautiful young backpacker who was on the trip of a lifetime was stabbed dozens of times, allegedly at the hands of the extremely violent and well-trained Ayad.

The man who ran to her aid as she lay dying in the Home Hill hostel bathroom after being stabbed dozens of time, Thomas Jackson, remains in a critical condition in Townsville Hospital.

Police will allege Ayad had Mr Jackson cornered in the bathroom and stabbed him almost 20 times, critically injuring the British backpacker.

Ayad is due to appear in Townsville Magistrates Court via video link today.