http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/in-the-dark-podcast-jacob-wetterling_us_57f808d5e4b068ecb5de54f4
180
18
At the end of August, a man named Danny Heinrich confessed to sexually assaulting and murdering Jacob Wetterling, an 11-year-old Minnesotan boy who had been missing since 1989.

Meanwhile, Madeleine Baran, a reporter for APM Reports, was working on an investigative podcast about the case, diving deep into one of the most notorious child abductions in history.

The resulting weekly podcast series, “In the Dark,” launched at the beginning of September. The Huffington Post spoke with Baran via email Friday to learn how and why she chose this story to investigate.

Talk to us about the seed of this story. What inspired you to take a deep dive into the Jacob Wetterling case, what essentially was a cold case?

I started reporting on the Jacob Wetterling case because I wanted to know why it hadn’t been solved, and I wanted to understand the consequences of the failure to solve it on Jacob’s family, the community and the nation.

There were things about the case that stood out to me right from the start of my reporting ― that Jacob was kidnapped on a dead-end road; there were witnesses; officers got there right away; the case had a massive amount of resources and investigators. All of those facts made me wonder why it hadn’t been solved.

I also wanted to better understand the impact of Jacob’s disappearance. Jacob’s kidnapping wasn’t just any child abduction. The case was one of the largest searches for any missing child in the history of the United States. It changed the lives of children and parents across the Midwest, and it contributed to the fears of “stranger danger.” It also led to a federal law that requires all states to maintain registries of sex offenders. So it was important to find out why the case hadn’t been solved.

When did you start reporting? How long did you report before you started scripting and editing episodes?

We started some initial reporting in September and October 2015, but we didn’t get started full time on it until around November 2015. We’ve been reporting, writing and producing full time since then. We started scripting and editing episodes over the summer.

We decided to do a several-part podcast because we think it was the most responsible way to tell this story. There are a lot of characters and the story unfolds over several decades. Given what we were finding out, there just wasn’t a way to tell the story fully in a traditional one-hour radio documentary, or even a shorter multipart series.

Did the success of “Serial” influence your decision?

Fortunately, because of “Serial” and “Making a Murderer,” we knew that people are craving this kind of in-depth storytelling and reporting. That’s good news for reporting in general, because a lot of investigative stories are going to be more in-depth, complex and nuanced.