http://www.whio.com/news/map-ohio-task-force-travels-help-those-affected-hurricane-matthew/hT2nEjD0Zwys7k7fe1x23M/
180
18
Updated: Friday, November 04, 2016 @ 2:43 PM

Published: Thursday, November 03, 2016 @ 3:11 PM

By: Debbie Lord - Cox Media Group National Content Desk

With four days left until the 2016 presidential election, the polls are shifting, and the race is tightening across the country.

While every vote is important, there are some states that seem to always get the most attention when they are classified as a swing state, or a state that can swing an election.

Most of those states have large Electoral College vote counts, but that’s not always the case. Some are more important to the strategy of busting up the opponents ‘firewall” of states or states considered safely in a candidate’s victory column.

With an election where nothing seems predictable, both Republican Donald Trump and Democrat Hillary Clinton are showing up in swing states, but they are also showing up in states where, traditionally, their party’s candidates don’t spend much time.

Here’s a look at some of the 2016 swing states, what makes them important in this race, and the latest election information from and about them. Check back here every day through the election for updates.

Colorado

Electors: 9

Red or Blue: Colorado has voted for Republican presidential candidates in four of last seven elections; the state has two Democratic senators.

Today’s news:Bill Clinton's three-stop Colorado tour a sign that state really is in play

Latest poll: Clinton is ahead of Trump by 2.6 percentage points according to the Real Clear Politics Average of polls.

What should you know: Gun sales are up in Colorado ahead of the election. Colorado authorities have approved 265,817 background checks for gun purchases through September, a Colorado National Radio story said. It's a 15 percent increase compared to the same time period a year ago.

Florida

Electors: 29

Red or Blue: Florida voted for Republican presidential candidates in four of the last seven elections.

Today’s news: Voting groups say Florida leads in calls to elections hotline

Latest poll: According to the RCP Average of polls, Clinton is ahead by 1.2 percentage points.

What should you know: Florida is a popular state when it comes to elections or unpopular, depending on the point of view. With 29 electoral votes, the state is a huge prize. Trump had made 23 campaign stops in the state, while Clinton has been there 18 times.

Iowa

Electors: 6

Red or Blue: Iowa has voted for Democratic presidential candidates in six out of last seven elections.

Today’s news: Can Iowa Dems' early-vote lead withstand Republicans' Election Day surge?

Latest poll: Trump is ahead of Clinton in polls there by 1.4 percentage points, according to the RCP Average poll.

What should you know: Hillary Clinton narrowly won the Iowa Democratic caucuses with 49.84 percent of the vote. Ted Cruz won the Iowa Republican caucuses with 27.7 percent of the vote. Barack Obama carried Iowa in both the 2008 and 2012 presidential elections.

Minnesota

Electors: 10

Red or Blue: Minnesota voted for a Democratic presidential candidate in last seven elections; it has two Democratic senators.

Today’s news: Absentee voting in Minnesota: More than 400,000 ballots cast

Latest poll: Clinton up by 6 percentage points, according to the RCP Average poll.

What should you know: From the Minnesota Star Tribune: “Minnesota voters are split over whether GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump was right to raise concerns about the election being rigged against him. Statewide, 47 percent of those polled think Trump was wrong to question the legitimacy of the U.S. election system, and 43 percent think his criticism is on target.

Nevada

Electors: 6

Red or Blue: Nevada voted for Democratic presidential candidates in four of last seven elections.

Today’s news: Election Update: Why Clinton's Position Is Worse Than Obama's

Latest poll: Trump is up by 2 percentage points in Nevada, according to the RCP Average poll.

What should you know: Bill Clinton is campaigning in Nevada where women voters are nearly evenly divided over the choice between Trump and Hillary Clinton. Hillary Clinton has asked casino owners to let employees off work so they can go vote.

New Hampshire

Electors: 4

Red or Blue: New Hampshire voted for the Democratic presidential candidate in five of last seven elections.

Today’s news: Trump, Obama to campaign in New Hampshire on eve of election

Latest poll: Trump leads Clinton by 1.5 percentage points in the RCP Average poll.

What should you know: Trump has gained ground in typically blue-leaning New Hampshire. The state’s four Electoral College votes would help Trump a great deal by putting a dent in Hillary Clinton’s “Blue Wall” – the states she feels safe and needs to protect her Electoral College lead.



North Carolina

Electors: 15

Red or Blue: North Carolina voted for Republican presidential candidates in six of last seven elections. The state went Democratic during the 2008 election voting for Barack Obama.

Today’s news: Why North Carolina is so important in 2016

Latest poll: Trump is ahead 0.7 of a percentage point in the RCP Average poll.

What should you know: President Barack Obama campaigned for Hillary Clinton in the state on Wednesday, and told those there it was important to vote – very important. “We don’t win this election if we don’t win North Carolina,” Obama said. “I hate to put a little pressure on you, but the fate of the republic rests on your shoulders.



Virginia

Electors: 13

Red or Blue: Virginia voted for Republican presidential candidates in five of the last seven elections. They have two Democratic senators.

Today’s news: NY authorities warned of terror threat around US election

Latest poll: Hillary Clinton leads Trump by 5.2 percentage points in the RCP Average poll.

What should you know: Hillary Clinton’s running mate, Tim Kaine, is a sitting senator from Virginia. The state has been thought to be more in Clinton’s camp until recent polling. The Atlantic has published an article posing the question, “Is Donald Trump outflanking Hillary Clinton?” The article looks at the notion Clinton may have overestimated her hold on the states most central to her strategy – Virginia included.



Wisconsin