http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3833060/Is-Kim-Jong-suffering-health-problems-Publicity-hungry-dictator-notably-absent-two-high-profile-events-North-Korea.html
186
18
Kim Jong-un's absence from two major public events has sparked speculation about his health - in a week when North Korea has been expected to launch another nuclear missile test.

The despot was missing from a ceremony at the Kumsusan Palace of the Sun, where officials were reportedly gathered to pay respects to his grandfather, Kim Il Sung, who was Supreme Leader of North Korea for 46 years.

And Kim was also absent at a concert to commemorate the 71st anniversary of the founding of the Korean Workers' Party.

Scroll down for video

The North Korean leader has been missing from two high-profile public events, raising questions about his health

US and South Korean forces have been on high alert around the anniversary, amid speculation that a nuclear test and a long-range rocket launch would be carried out.

There had been marked activity at the Sohae Satellite Launching Station and the Punggye-ri nuclear site earlier this month.

South Korean news service Newsis has suggested that escalated defence activity may have forced the North Korean government to rethink launching more tests.

He did not appear at a ceremony to pay respects to his grandfather earlier this week

No official explanation has been given in the secretive state for Kim's absence from the public events.

He is previously reported to have developed health problems due to binge eating.

The dictator, who is believed to be 34 years old, developed issues around food due to his fears of being assassinated, South Korean news agency Yonhap has reported.

Reports have suggested that the North Korean leader, who has been pictured walking with the aid of a stick, has suffered health problems owing to binge eating

The North Korean leader appeared to have slimmed down in pictures released last week - but it is not clear when they were taken

He has put on significant amounts of weight since becoming supreme leader of North Korea following the sudden death of his father, Kim Jong-il, in December 2011.

His time in office has seen long stretches in which he has not appeared in public, and Kim has also been seen limping and walking with the aid of a stick.

Last week pictures were released of him touring the Mangyongdae Revolutionary Souvenir Factory in Pyongyang, suggesting he had slimmed down. But it is not clear when they were taken.

His father, Kim Jong-il died suddenly due to what is believed to be high blood pressure and diabetes at the age of around 70

It is thought his father died as a result of high blood pressure and diabetes.

Earlier this week claims emerged that the despot is so afraid of being assassinated that he does not stray far from the country's capital of Pyongyang.

'He feels unsafe,' says Ha Tae-keung, a National Assembly member who has worked closely with refugees in the past.

'He knows people's ideas about him are worse than in other areas.'

His security fears are believed to be why the Supreme Leader has not been to visit his grandmother's birthplace in the town of Hoeryong after it was hit by severe flooding.

Japanese network TV Asahi reported yesterday that North Korean scientists have been ordered to develop an intercontinental ballistic missle with a range of 9,320 miles, as well as a submarine-launched ballistic missile that can reach 3,100 miles.