http://dailytimes.com.pk/pakistan/24-Aug-16/us-calls-on-pak-india-to-establish-direct-dialogue
180
18
WASHINGTON: Pakistan and India would greatly benefit from a normalisation of ties and practical cooperation according to a US spokesperson, who greatly encouraged the two neighbours to engage in a direct dialogue to reduce tension.

"We strongly support all efforts between India and Pakistan that can contribute to a more stable and prosperous region and that includes meetings at any level between Indian and Pakistani officials," he noted in his response to a question.

Pakistan's Foreign Secretary had recently invited his Indian counterpart to visit Islamabad by the end of this month to discuss the Jammu-Kashmir dispute, with a view to tabling a solution, which was both acceptable to all parties and in line with the UN Security Council resolutions and aspirations of the people of the disputed territory. Meanwhile, tension still ensues in the Indian-held Kashmir where a young man was killed while dozens were wounded on Sunday during a clash between troops and protesters, who were demanding an end to Indian rule.

More than 60 lives, including women and children, have been claimed by one of the most serious uprisings in the Indian-held valley in the aftermath of the killing of a young Kashmiri freedom fighter, Burhan Wani, at the hands of Indian security forces, last month. Protests have continued for the 45th straight day in the valley.

Replying to a question against the initiation of the sedition charges against Amnesty International in India, the spokesperson asserted that the US supported the right to freedom of expression and assembly, including through civil society. The US respected the right for Amnesty and others to express themselves freely, he added.

This charge against the international rights watchdog is drawing severe criticism from all political parties in India. A parliamentarian from the Congress Party, Shashi Tharoor, termed the charging as a big mistake, according to a report by the Indian Express. "Amnesty has not advocated violence. If anyone indulges in encouragement of violence and hate speech, they should definitely act against them, but sedition is a grave charge," he quoted.