http://www.srilankasource.com/index.php/sid/247004475
1822
18
Russia, Germany, France highlight importance of peace in Ukraine

Sri Lanka Source Wednesday 24th August, 2016

• Russia, Germany, France say ceasefire must be achieved

• Russia, Germany, France to discuss Ukraine during G20 summit next month

• Germany agrees to lift sanctions from Russia if it abides by Minsk accord

MOSCOW, Russia - German Chancellor Angela Merkel, French President Francois Hollande and Russian President Vladimir Putin have expressed concerns about the increased violence in eastern Ukraine.

"There was agreement that progress was urgently needed and that in particular, a stabilisation of the ceasefire had to be achieved," a German spokesman reportedly said in a statement.

Recently, Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko had said the government was looking at a fresh round of recruitment of soldiers and the roll out of martial law should the conflict in eastern Ukraine by pro-Russian separatists escalate.

Russia which has occupied Crimea, a part of Ukraine in 2014, said that the country was using “provocation” by carrying out military attacks in its occupied territory. Russia claims that it lost a employee and soldier to such attacks.

The three leaders agreed to talk more about the conflict in Ukraine when they meet in China next month for the G20 summit. It remains to be seen whether Ukrainian President Poroshenko will also be invited for the talks.

The Minsk accord was signed in 2015 to bring peace in the region, has largely failed as international monitoring agencies reported increased spates of violence in eastern Ukraine.

Putin blamed Ukraine for the failure of the accord saying that its “penchant to such forceful actions harms the Minsk process and cooperation.”

The EU and U.S. had imposed sanctions on Russia for annexing Crimea but German Chancellor revealed that she was willing to lift those sanctions if Russia helps the Minsk accord succeed.

Russia’s role in bringing instability to Ukraine has been largely condemned by the U.S. But the role of the U.S. in Ukraine to support governments in its favour is also an open fact.

In a surprising development, Republican Presidential nominee Donald Trump’s national chairman Paul Manafort was exposed for his links with pro-Europe and U.S. presidential candidate Viktor Yanukovych.

Manafort was allegedly the man behind Yanukovych’s political campaign. The furor over the revelation forced Manafort to resign from his post in the Republican party.

After an increased presence of Russian troops were noticed along its borders, Ukraine had expressed fears of a “full scale invasion” by Russia and had vouched to take preventive measures should such a situation arise.

On August 24, Ukraine celebrates 25 years of independence from Soviet rule, however the country’s sovereignty is still dependent on Russia.

Since Russian annexation of Crimea, the clash between pro-Russian separatists and the Ukrainian government has resulted in the deaths of 9500 people.