http://www.srilankasource.com/index.php/sid/247004679
1822
18
Japan produces silicone prosthetics for patients in need

Sri Lanka Source (ANI) Wednesday 24th August, 2016

Tokyo, Aug.24 (ANI): Located in the mountainous Shimane Prefecture, Nakamura Brace provides high quality prosthetics and orthotics for those in need.

Its contribution expands to more than 30 countries. The credit for this success goes to Toshihiro Nakamura.

Toshihiro Nakamura, President, Nakamura Brace, said, "Some 30 years ago, I got silicon gum. It is real and delicate to accept precise work. Regarding finger, it is available to be decorated by nail art or to grow hair. Additional invention enables good and real supportive device. When I was in the US this word "Think" supported and encouraged me. Despite of the place or the area which is not affluent if we think continuously we can open future path."

After studying in the USA, Nakamura returned to his under populated birth town which did not have any hospitals.

Overcoming disadvantages, he continued to produce prosthetics and orthotics for those in need. Today, young trainees are coming to learn these skills.

Nakamura said, "Ten years ago I met an Afghan girl whose hand and leg were injured by a mine. I produced an artificial leg for her. It was introduced in the movie. It was a fateful encounter. In Malaysia, I met a doctor of the University of Malaya. Her major is orthopedics and rehabilitation. Since 30 years ago, we have continuously worked on exchanging information and collaborated on improving technical skill. Through the exchange of knowledge and experience we look forward helping each other."

JFE Engineering Corporation, a company that makes plants and infrastructure constructions has built a biomass power station in Tsu, Mie Prefecture.

Here, the power generation is done by using a CFB boiler and burning biomass fuels made of coconut shells or woodchips.

Seiichi Kanamori of the JFE Engineering Corporation said, "The scale of the power generation is about 20.1 megawatts, which is about 44,000 times a normal households' power usage. It's also the largest biomass power station in the prefecture."

The biomass fuel made from coconut shells or woodchips imported from Indonesia and Malaysia is transferred from a fuel yard and thrown into hoppers.

The fuel is burned in the boiler and the water in the boiler boils with its heat.

Afterwards, the high temperature and high pressure steam that it generates rotates the steam turbine, and runs the generator and generates power.

In the central control room, the operation of the entire power plant is being conducted; such as fuel supplies and the control of the output of the boiler.

It's environmentally friendly. Since a bag filters and collects the ash dust, the fuel gas is detoxified.

Kanamori said "We look forward to engage further overseas. While considering implementing cost-reduction, we are open to overseas development."

In Japan, to fulfill the purpose of preliminary fire extinguishing needs, based on fire laws, fire extinguishers are required to be installed in office buildings.

Based on the purpose of a building, the scale, and the degree of risks, etc., firefighting equipment using pumps are also being introduced.

The installation locations are strictly managed with double-doors.

In Japan, the only firewater pumps that can be used are the ones certified by the Fire Equipment and Safety Center of Japan.

An unidentified official of the Ebara Corporation said, "With the standards of certification, to start with the construction material and functions, all the technical specs of the firewater pumps are divided into small segments, and only the ones that are suitable for all the standards are to be certified which makes it a strict authority."

In the 1980s, Ebara Corporation's pump was the first one to be certified in the industry.

The office building is also installed with an inverter firewater pump made by Ebara Corporation.

In Japan, the water pressure at the end of the water supply is regulated by fire laws. The inverter pump can control the water pressure at the end of the water supply.

He added, "With its high-level technical capabilities and extensive supply experience, the firewater pump unit from Ebara Corporation is contributing to the safety of large buildings and facilities."

Since earthquakes occur frequently in Japan, the risk of fire at the time of a natural disaster increases. (ANI)