http://www.srilankasource.com/index.php/sid/247023515
1822
18
Biden arrives in Turkey to mend ties following failed coup

PanArmenian.Net Wednesday 24th August, 2016

PanARMENIAN.Net - U.S. Vice President Joe Biden arrived in Turkey on Wednesday, August 24 in a visit that comes at a critical moment as the U.S. tries to smooth over thorny relations after last month's failed coup, The Wall Street Journal reports.

Biden, the first senior White House official to meet with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan since the takeover attempt, is seeking to blunt accusations from some Turkish officials that the U.S. helped facilitate the uprising by a segment of the Turkish armed forces. He wants to focus on the nations' strategic alliance on counterterrorism and stability in neighboring Syria, a senior administration official said.

"The major goal of the trip is to make sure that our alliance remains rock solid and that relations get back on track," the official said. "There are a lot of things going on right now in our relationship and neither one of us can afford to have that relationship be too strained at the moment."

Tensions between the U.S. and Turkey have flared in the wake of the failed coup, as Erdogan has moved to purge thousands of military and government workers he suspects of ties to Fethullah Gulen, a Turkish cleric living in the U.S. whom Erdogan accuses of masterminding the attempted overthrow.

Gulen, who lives in Pennsylvania, has millions of followers who say they support him for his moderate Islamic teachings. He denies any part in the violence, and says he believes the charges against him are politically motivated, WSJ says.

Turkey is seeking his extradition, in what is expected to a key issue during the daylong trip, and officials in Ankara have been frustrated by what they believe is Washington's inattention to what they consider an urgent national security threat. U.S. officials say Turkey hasn't provided them with evidence linking Gulen to the coup.

Biden also meets Turkey's prime minister and parliamentary leaders. Ahead of his planned meeting with the vice president, Erdogan repeated demands that Washington extradite the religious leader in order to try him in Turkey.

"We are strategic partners, you will gain nothing by harboring such an individual in your country," he said to applause during a speech.