http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/officer-who-sued-police-force-8691789
180
18
A police officer who once sued West Midlands police after a manager said he resembled Osama bin Laden has been sacked for threatening a court witness.

PC Tariq Dost was dismissed without notice this morning at a special case misconduct hearing, chaired by Chief Constable David Thompson, the Birmingham Mail reports.

The constable, from Small Heath, Solihull, had pleaded guilty to witness intimidation and common assault at Birmingham Magistrates' Court last month.

Mr Thompson said a key role of policing was protecting the integrity of the criminal justice process.

He found the officer guilty of gross misconduct and described the breaches of professional standards as “very serious”, adding they could “undermine public confidence in the police.”

Rex Osama Bin Laden in 1997

Detective Chief Inspector Brian Carmichael, from the forces professional standards department, told the hearing that the officer had been arrested on July 14 and later admitted the offences at court.

He said the officer had “threatened to abduct and assault a witness involved in a criminal trial.”

The 49-year-old officer did not attend the hearing in Edgbaston, but Police Federation representative John Williams said on his behalf: “I spoke to the officer a few weeks ago and he wants to pass on his apologies in this matter to the Chief Constable.”

PC Dost was awarded £11,000 at an employment tribunal in Birmingham in 2009 after a colleague said he resembled Osama bin Laden and looked “a prat” in Islamic dress.

The officer was working in the force’s recruitment department as a positive action officer, when he made the allegations against a civilian manager in November 2007.

Video loading Watch next Watch this video again Watch Next Click to play Tap to play The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

They were said to have compared Pc Dost’s beard to the former Al Qaida leader’s, told him he “looked like a terrorist” and referred to Muslim prayers as “shouting and wailing”.

PC Dost won his claim for racial and religious discrimination, but a claim for victimisation was not proved.