http://www.khmertimeskh.com/news/29332/kem-ley---s-widow-and-her-children-in-bangkok/
186
18
The wife of assassinated political commentator Kem Ley is now in Thailand after fleeing Cambodia last week, according to the Bangkok Post.

Bou Rachana, the seven-month pregnant widow of the analyst, is waiting on a decision from the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) about where she will be settled. Ms. Rachana and her four sons left Cambodia on August 28 after receiving refugee status from UNHCR.



Tim Malay, the director of the Cambodia Youth Network and a member of the funeral committee for Mr. Ley, declined to give details about Ms. Rachana’s whereabouts, but said she and her children were safe.



“Concerning the news on which country she is going to next, I do not know because it is her decision. One day she wants to go to this or that country, or she doesn’t want to go. It is her decision,” he said.



Mr. Ley was shot and killed at a gas station coffee shop in Phnom Penh on the morning of July 10. His body was buried in his hometown in Takeo province on July 24.



Multiple members of the funeral committee have told news outlets that Ms. Rachana was increasingly worried about her safety and the safety of her children since Mr. Ley’s murder. In addition, the government’s inability to provide almost any information about motives and suspects beyond the ones that have already been given has frustrated many of Mr. Ley’s family members.



Eurth Ang was arrested minutes after the shooting, and later told police he killed Mr. Ley because of an outstanding $3,000 debt. This motive has been debunked as it has been confirmed that the two men did not know each other and that Mr. Ang was living in poverty and would not have been able to loan someone that much money.



Police have not released any more information about potential leads, giving timely ammunition to the civil society groups who say the government is either unequipped to handle an investigation of this magnitude or, more sinisterly, was involved in the murder themselves.



The shooting came only days after Mr. Ley participated in a media roundtable which discussed a Global Witness report detailing the vast wealth and holdings of Prime Minister Hun Sen and his family.



Before she left, the Venerable Buntenh said the task of arranging Mr. Ley’s 100-day funeral ceremony, which will take place from October 16 to 18, had been passed to the remaining committee members. Buntenh said it had not yet been decided if the ceremony would take place in Phnom Penh or in Takeo city, Mr. Ley’s hometown.