http://thenationonlineng.net/soludo-sanusi-presidency/
186
18
LAST week, there were unsubstantiated reports that two former Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) governors, Charles Soludo and Sanusi Lamido Sanusi were to be investigated over some of the projects executed during their time at the apex bank. The reason for the probe, according to the reports, was their criticisms of the Buhari presidency’s economic policies, which both dismissed as ineffective or misdirected. The criticisms were generally unsparing. Professor Soludo’s examination of the government’s economic policies was more detailed, but that of Emir Sanusi was more trenchant. Both former apex bank governors have a rich tradition of fearless prognostication on Nigeria’s economic policies, with the professor being the more ardent experimentalist.

Garba Shehu, a presidential spokesman, has however debunked the reports, suggesting that what the two gentlemen did was nothing out of the ordinary. The president is a democrat, he says, and took an oath to preserve and protect the constitution, of which free speech is an integral part. According to Mallam Shehu, his checks indicated that no one had authorised any probe on account of any criticism. The public will believe him, but they will warily watch how the government proceed against the two men. Though the report may in fact be the imagination of some creative fiction writer, it must be galling to the government that some people find the story credible.

Mallam Shehu seems to suggest that the Buhari presidency is tolerant of dissent and criticism, therefore making the rumoured story unjustifiable. Unforunately, some critics may have found the story credible because the Buhari presidency has sometimes appeared pained by the boisterous show of democratic practices, especially the right to dissent strongly and criticise forcefully. The critics will point at the government’s attitude towards Nnamdi Kanu, leader of the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB), and Ibrahim El-zakzaky, the stoical and intransigent leader of the Shi’a Movement in Nigeria.

If the government goes ahead to probe both Prof Soludo and Emir Sanusi, it will still not weaken the depth and trenchancy of their views on the misshapen Nigerian economy. No Nigerian will disagree with the fact that the economy is in the doldrums, nor that all the efforts to pluck it from the abyss has been either misapplied or misguided. Probing any critic will not repair the breaches in the economy. Instead, it will suggest that the government stubbornly thinks it has the monopoly of knowledge.