http://dfw.cbslocal.com/2016/10/10/local-women-express-unwavering-support-for-trump/
180
18
Follow CBSDFW.COM: Facebook | Twitter

DALLAS (CBSDFW.COM) – Gina O’Briant, Geni Manning, and Kathleen Lieberman are members of the Texas Women for Trump Coalition.

Lieberman said the controversy over Donald Trump’s 2005 comments about women has strengthened their resolve.

“I think this has made his supporters stronger,” said Lieberman.

“It was just locker room banter,” said O’Briant. “He didn’t know he was being recorded. It was 11 years ago. I think the number one thing the government needs to do is protect the people and it’s not happening. But it will happen with Donald Trump.”

With election day now a month away, Manning said, “I think we would all agree none of us liked the words. But it’s that type of person, Trump, he’s the only one I believe has the guts to stand up to the politicians.”

Lieberman points to Democrats supporting Bill Clinton when he ran for President, amid accusations he sexually assaulted various women.

“The Bible absolutely condemns hypocrisy,” said Liberman.

But the three women said they back Trump because they believe in his policies on the economy, trade, terrorism and more.

“I’m really worried that our country will be doomed if she becomes President,” said Manning.

“I don’t think we need another Obama term on steroids,” said O’Briant. “That’s not what this country needs.”

A number of Republican elected officials have withdrawn their endorsements of Trump.

Lieberman accuses those GOP leaders of disrespecting Republican voters. “What are they going to do if they don’t like Donald Trump? Are they going to give us Hillary?”

O’Briant said the elected officials who disavowed Trump are “not keeping their pledge. He is our nominee. That took a lot of guts, he apologized. It’s time to move on. We need to unite the party.”

Trump will be in Dallas Tuesday afternoon for a fundraiser before attending a rally Tuesday night in Florida.

(©2016 CBS Local Media, a division of CBS Radio Inc. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.)

Follow Jack on Twitter: @cbs11jack