http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3850296/Protester-wearing-Bill-Clinton-t-shirt-dragged-Bernie-Sanders-rally-yelling-Clinton-rapist.html
1821
18
Hundreds of people packed an auditorium in Arizona for a rally Bernie Sanders held in support of Hillary Clinton's presidential bid.

The Vermont senator first apologized to his audience at Northern Arizona University for 'the mistakes my generation made', before launching an attack on Donald Trump.

'In my view, electing Donald Trump as president would be a disaster for this country,' he said. 'Donald is the least qualified candidate in the history of this country.'

But Sanders was then interrupted by a protester who was wearing a Bill Clinton t-shirt.

Hundreds of people packed an auditorium in Arizona for a rally Bernie Sanders held in support of Hillary Clinton's presidential bid. The Vermont senator first apologized to his audience for 'the mistakes my generation made', before attacking Donald Trump

Sanders was then interrupted by a protester who was wearing a Bill Clinton t-shirt. Security dragged the man out of the rally as he yelled: 'Clinton is a rapist'

Security dragged the man out of the rally as he yelled: 'Clinton is a rapist.'

Sanders went on to say: 'This is a candidate who says to our Mexican brothers and sisters, 'You are rapists, and you are criminals.' We cannot have a candidate like that.'

The senator is the first of three big-name Democrats visiting Arizona this week to support Clinton’s presidential campaign.

The senator is the first of three big-name Democrats visiting Arizona this week to support Clinton’s presidential campaign

Clinton’s daughter Chelsea Clinton will appear at Arizona State University on Wednesday, and first lady Michelle Obama will be there on Thursday, according to Cronkite News.

No Democratic presidential candidate has won Arizona since Bill Clinton in 1996.

The recent interruption at the Sanders rally by the protester claiming 'Clinton is a rapist', is one of several incidents that have occurred at Hillary Clinton's events since Trump brought three women to the second presidential debate who accused the ex-president of sexual misdeeds.

In two incidents last week, the 68-year-old husband of the Democratic presidential nominee had his remarks overshadowed by demonstrators taunting him with rape allegations.

Hillary Clinton confronted the accusations about her husband's alleged behavior last week when a protester crashed her rally wearing a shirt accusing her husband of 'rape'.

'You know, I do hope someone follows that gentleman out and stages an intervention,' Hillary Clinton told the crowd.

'He clearly has not been following this election very closely.'

President Barack Obama got his own handful of Bill Clinton 'rape' protesters last Tuesday when two young people sporting 'Bill Clinton Rapist' t-shirts interrupted his Greensboro, North Carolina, rally.

The president appeared to find the whole thing funny, pausing at length while Secret Service hauled them out.

'You know, this is the great thing about politics in America, it takes all kinds,' he laughed. 'Folks will just do all kinds of stuff. Now where was I?'

During the second presidential debate, Trump brought Juanita Broaddrick as a guest.

The recent interruption at the Sanders rally by protesters claiming 'Clinton is a rapist', is one of several incidents that have occurred at Hillary Clinton's events since Trump brought three women to the second presidential debate who accused the ex-president of sexual misdeeds

Hillary Clinton confronted the accusations about her husband's alleged behavior last week when a protester crashed her rally wearing a shirt accusing her husband of 'rape'

She was one of three Clinton accusers he had at the event. A fourth, Kathy Shelton, blames Clinton for successfully arguing for reduced charges her rapist.

Broaddrick has said Clinton raped her in Little Rock in 1978 and bit her lip during the alleged assault.

At a Trump-organized photo-op in St Louis the night of the second debate Broaddrick said: 'Mr Trump may have said some bad words, but Bill Clinton raped me, and Hillary Clinton threatened me. I don't think there's any comparison.'

According to Broaddrick, Clinton came up to her not long after the alleged attack and thanked her in a way she found threatening and considered a way of telling her to keep quiet.

Charges were never brought and Clinton has vehemently denied the accusation.

Kathleen Willey (left), Juanita Broaddrick (center), and Kathy Shelton (right) attended the second presidential debate as Trump's guests

But despite the 'rape' allegations against her husband, Hillary Clinton is in good shape going into the third and final presidential debate, polling six points ahead of Trump. She captured a 46 per cent share of the vote, while Trump slipped a point to 40

Broaddrick herself denied that the incident occurred in a deposition given in connection to the Paula Jones sexual harassment lawusit. But she later recanted and said it happened.

'He starts to bite on my top lip, and I tried to pull away from him,' she recalled.

'And then he forces me down on the bed. And I just was very frightened, and I tried to get away from him and I told him "No," that I didn’t want this to happen but he wouldn’t listen to me.'

But despite the 'rape' allegations against her husband, Hillary Clinton is in good shape going into the third and final presidential debate, polling six points ahead of Trump.

She captured a 46 per cent share of the vote, while Trump slipped a point to 40, according to a weekly NBC News/Survey Monkey poll, published Tuesday.