http://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-3855620/Melissa-George-pictured-leaving-Paris-court-partner-Jean-David-Blanc-appears-charges-domestic-assault.html
180
18
Melissa George looked sombre as she left a Paris court on Thursday after her partner Jean David Blanc appeared on charges of domestic assault against her.

Blanc made his appearance amid reports that the Australian actress was taken to hospital last month following the alleged assault.

He denied the charges against him, according to a report in French newspaper Le Parisien.

In court: Melissa George was pictured on Wednesday leaving a Paris court

The Australian actress, 40, wore a white maxi dress and ballet flats, along with a tan sweater over her shoulders as she descended the steps, accompanied by friends.

Jean David left separately, wearing dark blue trousers and a warm winter coat.

Last month, the actress was reportedly taken to Cochin hospital hospitalised following the alleged assault by her partner of four years.

According to French website Purepeople, Melissa, received medical treatment after turning up at the police station at around 3am on Wednesday morning.

The star - who shares two sons with 48-year-old Jean David - was allegedly suffering from bruising to her face and complaining of pain and feeling faint.

Accused: Jean-David Blanc left court after appearing on domestic violence charges

Sombre: The actress was accompanied by a group of friends while descending the court steps

M6info reported: ' According to statements by the actress ... she was assaulted by her companion.

'The police were called last night to intervene in the centre of Paris.

'In shock, Melissa George, had a swelling of the face and complained of pain, nausea and dizziness.'

MailOnline previously contacted a Paris police spokesperson, who confirmed reports the actress was hospitalised.

Shocking: Melissa was allegedly been hospitalised following a domestic incident concerning her French partner of four years, Jean David Blanc (pictured in May 2016)

Jean David is a businessman, writer and film producer, famed for founding cinema service organization AlloCiné.

The couple first met in 2011 at a BAFTA after-party, before entering into a relationship in 2012.

They welcomed their first child, a son named Raphael, in February 2014 and a second son, Solal, in November last year.

Family life: The couple first met in 2011 at a BAFTA after-party, before entering into a relationship in 2012

Melissa was previously married to Chilean film director Caludio Dabed.

When announcing Solal's birth on social media, Melissa publicly gushed over her longtime de facto.

'Thank you to my love, Jean David, for giving me the best gift in my life. I love you,' she wrote at the time.

Flop: Melissa recently starred as Dr. Alexandra Panttiere in the NBC medical drama, Heartbeat which was cancelled by the network back in May

Melissa most recently starred as Dr. Alexandra Panttiere in the NBC medical drama, Heartbeat.

Unfortunately, the show flatlined and was canceled by the network back in May following poor ratings and a negative critical reception.

She rose to fame as Angel Parrish in Home And Away in the 90s, before landing recurring roles in Alias and Grey's Anatomy.