http://newstalk1130.iheart.com/onair/common-sense-central-37717/paul-ryan-knows-donald-trump-is-15192430/
180
18
Yogi Berra famously said “It ain’t over ‘til it’s over,” but on Monday, House Speaker Paul Ryan revealed that he knows it’s over. By announcing so publicly that he would no longer defend Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump, Ryan inadvertently revealed that he has internal polling data that shows Trump simply cannot and will not win the presidency.

Of course, the publicly available poll data is terrible enough for Trump—an NBC News Wall Street Journal survey in the field after the tape of Trump’s lewd comments surfaced (but before the second presidential debate) showed a 14-point Clinton lead.

But Ryan very obviously knows that Clinton is even farther ahead than that or, more accurately, that she is far enough ahead in the key swing states that a Trump victory now is virtually impossible.

Why else abandon Trump so coldly and so publicly, rebuking him twice in four days—first on Friday night by disinviting him to a Fall Fest gathering in Wisconsin and then announcing to his caucus that he would focus his efforts not on Trump’s election but on saving the Republican Congressional majority?

Ryan had to know that doing so would invariably incur the wrath of Trump’s supporters, making Ryan even less popular among them than the hated former Speaker John Boehner, but Ryan disavowed Trump anyway.

In politics, as in medicine, the primary rule is “Do no harm,” especially to oneself or one’s party. The highest-ranking Republican in the country telling the world that he would no longer campaign with or defend the Republican presidential candidate would appear on its face to do irreparable harm to both Ryan and the Republican Party.

Unless, of course, Ryan knew that the damage had already been done.

While many Republicans don’t want to admit it, Trump’s remarks to Access Hollywood’s Billy Bush in 2005 were absolutely toxic to both independent voters and the so-called “blue dog” conservative Democrats; so toxic, in fact, that they threaten to drag the rest of the Republican Party down with Trump.

Yes, Bill Clinton almost certainly sexually assaulted several women. Yes, Hillary Clinton actively defamed and attempted to destroy the reputations of these women in a desperate attempt at saving her husband’s presidency. Yes, Democrats are hypocrites for promoting the hyper-sexualization of American culture and then pretending to be shocked and outraged at Trump’s comments. Yes, the media is unfairly focusing on those comments instead of the legitimate bombshells in the Wikileaks release of John Podesta’s emails (which show corrupt coordination between the Clinton Campaign and the media and what appears to be illegal coordination between the Clinton Campaign and the Justice Department as it investigated Clinton’s private email server).

None of this changes the fact that Trump’s comments were so abhorrent that they immediately turned off untold millions of people who might have otherwise been willing to vote for him because of their disgust for Clinton’s overt corruption.

The sad reality for Republicans is that yes, the Clintons will always get a pass on their overt corruption. Yes, the media will ignore Bill Clinton’s likely sexual assaults. Yes, the media will ignore the Wikileaks emails, no matter how much criminal behavior they may reveal. Yes, the media will ignore quite literally anything and everything that could possibly cost Hillary Clinton a single vote.

Yes, this is remarkably unfair and, in truth, the Wikileaks emails show a truly staggering level of unethical corruption between the media and the Clinton Campaign, but this is the political landscape on which Republicans have to play.

Trump has to play on it, and Ryan has to play on it, too, and Ryan knows from his failed vice presidential candidacy in 2012 that in order to have a prayer of winning, a Republican presidential candidate has to play flawlessly.

Trump’s campaign has been anything but. In just the past two weeks alone, he has turned in a poor performance in the first debate, inexplicably feuded with a Venezuelan beauty queen for an excruciating four days, and then watch as a tape is released that seems to show him advocating sexual assault.

That’s the thing about that tape: It doesn’t need media spin to turn off voters. Simply listening to it is enough to make undecided or persuadable voters write Trump off entirely and either stay home, vote for a third party candidate, or even roll the dice with a Democrat whom they know to be corrupt.

That’s how bad it is, and any Republican who thinks it isn’t is either delusional or lying.

Of course crude comments 11 years ago in and of themselves do not disqualify Trump or, quite frankly, have a whole lot of relevance to his ability to perform the duties of the President of the United States effectively, but that isn’t the point. The comments are for millions of people the final straw and they simply will not vote for Trump.

Ryan very obviously knows this, and knows that continuing to support and try to defend Trump now will only serve to make Congressional Republicans nearly as toxic to those voters as Trump has become, so Ryan is allowing members of his caucus to do whatever they need to do to win their own elections, the results of the presidential race be damned. If that means publicly standing by Trump, so be it. If that means revoking an endorsement, fine.

The point is that Ryan’s willingness to allow this (or more accurately, to actively encourage this) means only one thing: He knows that it is necessary. Every Democratic candidate in the country is already rushing to tie his or her Republican opponent to Trump’s comments, and an order from Ryan for those Republicans to publicly stand by Trump would in essence be an order from the captain to go down with the ship.

Note that Ryan said that he “did not want to give Hillary Clinton a blank check” as president. He chose these words very carefully to signal to fellow Republicans that a Clinton presidency was inevitable. He didn’t say “if Clinton wins,” he essentially said “when Clinton wins.”

It may not be over ‘til it’s truly over, but Paul Ryan clearly thinks it’s over, and he wouldn’t make such a dramatic public move if he didn’t have very reliable polling data that showed him that the presidential race really was over.

Make no mistake: Ryan did not do this out of spite. He did not do this out of his personal dislike for Trump. He did it out of desperation to keep Republicans in the House and Senate out of the blast radius of Trump’s implosion.

There will naturally be a desire to blame Ryan if and when Trump does end up losing the White House, but when the autopsy of Trump’s candidacy is performed, it will list Trump’s own words on the tape as the cause of death, not anything Paul Ryan or any other Republican ever said or did in response to them.

Email Dan O'Donnell

Follow Him on Social Media

Twitter | Facebook