http://www.thestar.com.my/news/nation/2016/10/11/probe-may-13-posting-says-gerakan-youth/
180
18
KUALA LUMPUR: Gerakan Youth has called on the police to investigate a social media post allegedly made by Red Shirt leader Datuk Seri Jamal Yunos threatening a repeat of the May 13 riots.

Gerakan Youth deputy Andy Yong urged the police to investigate whe­ther the posting on Facebook was true.

“We refer to the post ‘Saya berjanji Tragedi 13 MAY akan berulang dan PARANG TERBANG akan terjadi jika BERSIH 5 dibuat pada masa, tarikh dan tempat yang sama dengan perhimpunan #BERSIH5 yang dijadualkan pada 19 November ini. Hidup Melayu!’ (I promise the May 13 tragedy will be repeated and parang will fly if Bersih 5 is held at the same time, date and place as the #BERSIH5 rally scheduled for No­­vem­­ber 19. Long live the Malays!).”

Yong was speaking to reporters after lodging a police report at the Dang Wangi police headquarters yesterday.

He said he was aware that Jamal claimed the Facebook account on which the statement was posted was fake and did not belong to him.

“If it was Jamal who posted it, I hope the police will take stern action against him for sedition.

“If it was a fake account, I hope the necessary action is taken to find the true culprits and bring them to justice,” he said.

Yong also urged police to take appropriate action against those responsible for the provocations in Teluk Intan, Sabak Bernam and Gurney Drive in Penang recently.

In Ipoh, Perak DAP and Amanah Youth want the police and Umno to take stern action against some of the Red Shirt protesters, especially Jamal, over the alleged assault on some Bersih members recently.

Perak DAP chairman Nga Kor Ming said the assault clearly showed how violent and arrogant the Red Shirt protesters were, especially their leader, Jamal.

“We urge Bukit Aman to take swift action against these people, who clearly want to provoke racial tensions and also cause problems.

“They can kick the heads of the convoy participants.

“Is this allowed?

“If you’re a man, fight one on one. Why a group must whack one person?

“The police were also there, so it’s about time they (Red Shirt protes­ters) were arrested and charged in court,” said Nga at a press confe­rence at the state party headquarters in Medan Istana.

Amanah youth chief Mohd Fitri Asmuni also held a press confe­rence at the party’s headquarters in Greentown to condemn the actions of the Red Shirt protesters and urged Umno president Datuk Seri Najib Tun Razak to take stern action against Jamal.

“We were stopped by these people and some of our members were injured. It shouldn’t have happen­ed, especially in a democratic country.

“Umno should be accountable because the man leading this group is a division chief,” said Mohd Fitri.

He hoped the Red Shirt protesters would not cause problems on Nov 19 and urged police to continue being professional by giving the people a chance to voice their thoughts peacefully during the gathering.