http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/delhi-police-social-media-ransom-blackmail/1/785018.html
181
18
Highlights 1 Two men blackmailed a women on social media by threatening to upload obscene photographs.

2 They demanded a ransom of 10 lakh from the women.

3 Police laid a trap with the help of the victim and arrested both of them.

Social media can be a tool used with criminal intent. And that's exactly what two persons allegedly wanted to do when they threatened to upload "obscene" photographs of a married woman if she failed to pay Rs 10 lakh.

ARREST AND INTERROGATION

The two men have been arrested. Akash Pathak, who made the ransom calls, was arrested from Anand Vihar railway terminal following a trap laid by the police with the help of the victim, who had called the accused after agreeing to pay the ransom, said DCP (East) Rishi Pal. Pathak told the police that he was making the calls at the behest of Rajeev Gupta, former employee of the woman's paramour, a senior police officer said. Gupta was later arrested from Parsvnath Metro Mall, he said.

During interrogation, Gupta said he was working at the restaurant owned by the victim's paramour around a couple of years back, police said. He said that he had access to his employer's laptop and that he had copied the pictures from the device to a pen drive in 2013, thinking that he will blackmail the couple when an opportunity arises, police said.



HOW THE PLAN WAS HATCHED



The police said that the duo got inspired to commit the crime after watching popular shows of Crime Patrol and Saavdhaan India. Gupta, who had been facing some financial issues hatched the plan to blackmail the married woman, who was having an extra-marital affair with his former boss, who was also married. He roped in Pathak, who was unemployed, and used the latter's phone to make the ransom calls. The duo had been harassing the woman for a month. In order to throw the police off track, Pathak had lodged a complaint last month alleging that his phone had been stolen. Police recovered two pen drives containing some obscene videos and photographs and four mobile phones.



ALSO READ:

Delhi Police arrest two persons for extorting woman



