http://usa.onlinenigeria.com/news/155039-poldark-s-aidan-turner-smooches-a-mystery-brunette-during-a-boozy-lunch.html
186
18
He has previously dated actress Sarah Greene for five years

An onlooker said: 'They didn't have much to eat, just a starter'

But was spotted smooching a mystery brunette last week in the capital

Aidan Turner was kissing Tara Derakshan in London on September 2

By Daily Mail Reporter

Published: 17:59 EST, 23 October 2016 | Updated: 19:24 EST, 23 October 2016

He broke the hearts of Poldark fans everywhere when he was recently spotted kissing a brunette beauty from Sweden.

And now Aidan Turner appears to have found a strikingly similar new love interest.

The 33-year-old hunk was recently spotted enjoying a lunch with a glamorous mystery brunette.

Heartbreaker: Aidan Turner appears to have found a new love interest

Aidan could not keep his hands off the beauty as they drank white wine and smoked outside an club in west London.

Keeping things casual in black jeans and a T shirt combined with leather boots, Aidan looked smitten as the woman perched on his lap.

She, too, opted for a relaxed ensemble, donning tights and a skirt as she let her long locks flow over her shoulders, accessorising with earrings and a dangling necklace.

It comes after the Irishman was last month spotted kissing Swedish advertising executive Tara Derakshan while out in the West End.

Aidan and his latest flame spent all afternoon and went on into the evening smoking, drinking, and kissing and slow dancing on the pavement outside the club.

Smooching away! The couple appeared enamoured at a lunch in London

Sweet nothings: The woman appeared to whisper in Aidan's ear as he held his cigarette

Love's a game: The 33-year-old hunk was recently spotted enjoying a lunch with a glamorous mystery brunette

A fellow diner at the club said: 'I couldn't believe it was him. They didn't have much to eat, just a starter.

'They were all over each other in the restaurant. They didn't order a bottle but were downing white wine by the glass. They seemed to be besotted with each other.'

Aidan, who was in a relationship with actress Sarah Greene for five years, recently hinted he would like to go out with someone outside the acting world, saying dating someone in the same profession can be 'dull and taxing'.

Touchy-feely: Aidan could not keep his hands off the beauty as they drank white wine and smoked outside an club in west London

Relaxed: He kept things casual in black jeans and a T shirt combined with leather boots

Chilled: She opted for a relaxed ensemble, donning tights and a skirt as she let her long locks flow over her shoulders

Passionate: The mystery brunette closed her eyes as she smooched

New love: Aidan had his hands all over the woman, as he caressed her hips

Sunday night's episode of Poldark caused a stir as the BBC came under fire for what some campaigners viewed as a rape scene.

Ross Poldark turns up unannounced at the house of his former fiancee Elizabeth, played by Heida Reed.

He kicks in the door and demands that she cancels her wedding to his enemy George Warleggan.

She ignores what he says and instead asks him to leave, prompting him to take her face in his hands and forcefully kiss her.

Close: The pair were right up against one another as they enjoyed a tender moment

Don't mind if you do: Aidan was happy to let the brunette perch on his lap as he gazed into her eyes

Happy man: Aidan appeared delighted as he smiled wile holding his new love

When she pushes him away and insists she loves George, he forces another kiss on her before looking at the bed.

Elizabeth tells Poldark: 'You will not dare. You will not dare.' He replies: 'I would Elizabeth. I would and so will you.'

The lead character then pushes her on to the bed and she appears to finally give in to him.

The BBC insists that the scene shows consensual sex – but it has angered rape campaigners, legal experts and MPs.

Smitten: The beauty accessorised with earrings and a dangling necklace as she brushed Aidan's lips

Back in September: Aidan Turner was kissing Tara Derakshan in London on September 2

Prominent anti-rape campaigner Julie Bindel said there was no doubt in her mind that the scene depicted a rape. Ms Bindel, who has served as a Home Office expert, said: 'We are seeing rape. It's wholly irresponsible.'

And leading criminal barrister Matthew Scott said: 'It is rape. If I saw that in evidence on CCTV from a hotel room I would convict him.'

Sarah Green, co-director at charity End Violence Against Women, said: 'It is definitely portrayed very much as a rape.

'The female character says 'no' and there are also non-verbal signs. She is moving away from him and pulling away from him. There is lots of stuff that is ambiguous.'

Controversy: Sunday night's episode of Poldark caused a stir as the BBC came under fire for what some campaigners viewed as a rape scene