http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/pak-summons-indian-envoy-over-ceasefire-violations/1/794934.html
182
18
Islamabad, Oct 25 (PTI) Pakistan today summoned Indias Deputy High Commissioner and lodged a strong protest against "ceasefire violations" along the Working Boundary, the Foreign Office here said.

Deputy High Commissioner JP Singh was summoned by the Director General (South Asia and South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation).

A strong protest was lodged against the unprovoked ceasefire violations on October 23-24 by Indian forces at the Working Boundary in Phuklian and Chaprar Sectors in which two civilians, including a one-and-a-half-year-old girl, were killed and six others were injured, Foreign Office said in a statement.

"It was conveyed to the Indian side that it should investigate the incident and share the findings with Pakistan, instruct its troops to respect the Ceasefire in letter and spirit, refrain from intentionally targeting the villages and maintain peace on the Working Boundary," the statement said.

Pakistan has also lodged a protest with the United Nations Military Observers group in India and Pakistan (UNMOGIP) over the killing of two civilians in unprovoked firing across the Working Boundary, Dawn reported.

"India resorted to unprovoked firing across the Line of Control and the Working Boundary in the Bhimber and Chaprar sectors respectively today," Inter-Services Public Relations said.

"The exchange of fire was ongoing," the statement added.

"Ceasefire violations by India Protest lodged by Pakistan with UNMOGIP regarding unprovoked firing by Indian forces on Working Boundary last night that killed innocent civilians," M Nafees Zakaria, Spokesperson of Ministry of Foreign Affairs Pakistan, tweeted yesterday.

Meanwhile, India today said Pakistan Army violated the ceasefire by targeting Indian Army positions with mortar and small arms fire in Noushera sector of Rajouri district, prompting the army to give a "befitting response".

A six-year-old boy and a BSF Jawan were killed and 10 people including 8 civilians were injured in the shelling yesterday when Pakistan Rangers targeted over 25 Border out Posts in the border hamlets along International Border.

There have been over 40 ceasefire violations from the Pakistani side since the Indian side carried out surgical strikes inside Pakistan occupied Kashmir targeting terror launching pads, post the attack on an army camp in Uri on September 18. PTI SH CPS AKJ CPS