http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3832479/Taxi-driver-sacked-stopped-buy-condoms-raped-22-year-old-woman-car.html
180
18
A young prostitute claims she was raped by a taxi driver who stopped for condoms before pulling over in a dead end street to violating her in the back of his cab.

The 22-year-old sex worker alleged she was on her way to work at a Gold Coast brothel when a taxi driver from Gold Coast Cabs sexually assaulted her.

She said the male driver locked the car, 'yanked' her into the backseat by her hair and held her down while he raped her.

Scroll down for video

A young prostitute (pictured) claims she was raped by a taxi driver who stopped for condoms before pulling over in a dead end street to violating her in the back of his cab.

'He had me down on the ground and he was unzipping his pants,' the woman told Seven News.

The victim, who did not want to be identified, said her alleged attacker had pulled over and bought a packet of condoms from a convenience store after she revealed she was a prostitute.

She said she believes he attacked her because of the nature of her profession, but argues every woman has the right to feel safe regardless of their occupation.

'It doesn't matter what you do or what you wear, no means no,' she told Seven News.

The victim said her alleged attacker had pulled over and bought a packet of condoms from a convenience store after she revealed she was a prostitute (stock image)

The woman said she believes he attacked her because of the nature of her profession, but argues every woman has the right to feel safe regardless of their occupation (stock image)

'It doesn't matter what you do or what you wear, no means no,' the woman (right) said

The woman (pictured) said she believes he attacked her because of the nature of her profession, but argues every woman has the right to feel safe regardless of their occupation

The driver denied the allegations and instead claimed there was consensual sexual activity between himself and the young woman.

Gold Coast Cabs said on its website there are 'multiple security cameras' installed in each of their taxis.

But, the woman claims they were switched off during her alleged assault.

The man as fired over the incident and Gold Coat Cabs said it will co-operate with police as they investigate the claims.