http://nation.com.pk/editorials/11-Oct-2016/dark-times
180
18
Whichever way the 2016 US Presidential election goes, one thing it has made clear is that there is rising hate and racism in the US, and this electoral race has only exacerbated the problem.

Trump’s views on this have made it clear that he will only fan the flames further if elected; sexism, stereotyping Muslims and viewing them under the terrorist lens and marginalising Latinos and African-American communities has been his staple throughout this election campaign. But Hillary Clinton has not eased any qualms about America’s ideological direction in the next few years either. Her stance on US involvement on Syria shows that there will be no decrease in violence if she wins. Whoever gets elected, it is seemingly a lose-lose situation for the international community.

The most recent result of the hate-mongering was seen on September 25, in California, when a Sikh man was assaulted by five to six white males, who cut off his hair as a deliberate insult to his religious sentiments.

A new study shows that, based on results from 20 states, there has been a 78 percent increase in targeted attacks against Muslims specifically in just one year. 49 percent of Americans believe that racism is also on the rise; African-Americans and Latinos perceive themselves to be the most victimised as a result of legislation, education, job opportunities and more.

And the scariest aspect about the rapid increase in hate crime is that it’s not just the US. All over the world, there is a stark increase in incidents of hate crime. In Northern Ireland for instance, there have been over 500 incidents of hate-crime or racism related offences in only the past six months. The whole world is moving towards a more divided global community, and the US shares the blame in this, on account of how its global power status gives it tremendous influence over the world’s population, with its media and soft power present across the board.

Experts have termed this the ‘Trump Effect’; increased bullying in schools and a general feeling of insecurity in all minority groups is seen as the logical outcome of the rhetoric that is used by the Republican candidate. But even if he loses, and Clinton wins, the fractures created have turned back time and wiped clean decades of progress. And neither candidate will look to do enough to heal those wounds.