https://www.yahoo.com/news/ap-gfk-poll-most-believe-allegations-trump-women-193133070--election.html
180
18
FILE - In this Oct. 27, 2016 file photo, Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump speaks during a campaign rally in Toledo, Ohio. AP-GfK poll shows most Americans are upset by Trump's comments about women and believe the accusations made by several women that he kissed and grouped them without their consent. Trump is far behind Clinton among female voters. (AP Photo/ Evan Vucci, File)

WASHINGTON (AP) — Donald Trump's behavior has long grated on Carolyn Miller, but the allegations he sexually assaulted women was one factor that helped her decide in the last week to cast her ballot for Hillary Clinton.

"I don't think she's a bad person. Trump, I think, is a bad person," the 70-year-old Fort Myers, Florida, resident said. As for Trump's accusers, Miller added, "I believe them." And she said her vote for Clinton is "a default."

Miller is among the more than 7 in 10 Americans who say in a new Associated Press-GfK poll that they believe the women who say the Republican presidential candidate kissed or groped them without their consent, a verdict that may have turned off enough voters, including some Republicans, to add to his challenges in the presidential race.

Forty-two percent of Republican voters and 35 percent of Trump's own supporters think the accusations are probably true. Men and women are about equally likely to think so.

While the poll suggests the wave of allegations about Trump's treatment of women may blunt the impact of voters' concerns about Clinton, it was taken before Friday's news that the FBI will investigate whether there is classified information in newly uncovered emails related to its probe of her private server. Those emails were not from her server, according to a U.S. official who was not authorized to discuss details publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity.

Before the development, the poll found that about half of voters say her use of the private server while she was secretary of state makes them less likely to vote for her. But they were more likely to say that Trump's comments about women bother them a lot than to say the same about Clinton's email server, 51 percent to 43 percent.

Since September, Clinton seems to have consolidated her support within her own party and drawn undecided voters such as Miller to her campaign, or at least pushed them away from Trump. The billionaire's recent trouble with women seems to be one factor preventing him from doing the same.

He feuded with former Miss Universe Alicia Machado after Clinton noted he'd called her "Miss Piggy" for gaining weight while she wore the crown. Days later, a 2005 recording surfaced in which Trump can be heard describing himself sexually assaulting women in a conversation with Billy Bush, then the host of "Access Hollywood."

Several women have since publicly accused Trump of groping and kissing them without permission, including a People magazine reporter who said Trump attacked her when his wife, Melania, was out of the room.

Trump called his remarks on the video "locker room talk," dismissed the accusations as "fiction" and said of several accusers that they aren't attractive enough to merit his attention.

Asked Thursday on Fox News Channel's "The O'Reilly Factor" whether he thinks he would be ahead were it not for the "Access Hollywood" video, Trump replied, "I just don't know. I think it was very negative."

A majority of voters, 52 percent, say allegations about the way Trump treats women make them less likely to vote for him, including a fifth of Republican likely voters. And within that group, only about a third say they will vote for him, with about a third supporting Clinton and the remainder supporting third party candidates.

That may help explain why just 79 percent of Republican in the poll said they're supporting Trump compared with 90 percent of Democrats supporting Clinton. Trump needs to close that gap to have any shot at victory.

Trump has tried to equate the accusations against him with charges of infidelity and sexual assault leveled for years against his rival's husband, former President Bill Clinton. Trump has paraded the former president's accusers before the cameras and accused Hillary Clinton of undermining her husband's accusers.

The poll shows a majority of voters don't buy Trump's attempt at equivalence. Six in 10 say the allegations against the Clintons have no impact on their vote. That's despite the fact that 63 percent think Hillary Clinton has probably threatened or undermined women who have accused her husband of sexual misconduct.

"The vote will be about Hillary Clinton, not her husband," said Ryan Otteson, 33, of Salt Lake City, who's voting for a third-party candidate, conservative independent Evan McMullin.