http://thenationonlineng.net/sea-pirates-kidnap-8-fishermen-aibom-says-council-boss/
181
18
• Police: We are not aware of incident

Eight fishermen have been kidnapped by sea pirates in Ibeno, Akwa Ibom, the transitional chairman of Ibeno local government area, Chief Williams Mkpah, said yesterday.

Six of them were abducted on Thursday and two on Friday morning in the Ibeno creeks, Mkpah told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)

“As I am speaking sea pirates is intensifying in the Ibeno community and they want to ensure that that they stop fishermen from going to sea for fishing,” he said.

Mkpah said that the sea pirates were demanding millions of naira as ransom from the fishermen before releasing them.

He explained that the fishermen were made to pay levies by the sea pirates before they go for fishing in the area.

He alleged that “they have informants in our communities, who will inform them of the take off of a particular fisherman and possible routes where they are going for fishing.

“One of them was caught in Eket in the process of coming to collect ransom for somebody. One of the Ibeno boys made us to track him.

“And he has made useful statement to the police but as I speak now I don’t know what the Police Command in Uyo is doing about it.

“Since the suspect was caught, the issue of sea pirates increased seriously and they are now demanding for their man.

“Since we don’t want to release their man, they have now resorted to kidnapping of every fisherman,’’ Mkpah said.

Mkpah asked security operatives to be more proactive in combating sea piracy in the state.

“In a very short while we will declare hunger strike in this community because when we can no longer go to sea, we will all be starving.

“If the security in this state cannot rise to the challenge of the people of Ibeno and salvage us from this menace, Ibeno people will die of hunger,’’ he said.

He said that he has officially written to security operatives in the state but got no response.

However, the Public Relations Officer of the Police Command in Akwa Ibom, ASP Cordelia Nwawe, said the command was unaware of the kidnap of the eight fishermen in Ibeno.

“They should make an official reports to the Akwa Ibom Command for proper investigations.

“They should officially tell the police. So, I don’t have the reports and I can’t comment on it,’’ Nwawe said.