http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/university-lecturer-who-beat-up-8637865
180
18
Lee Salter has now finally lost his job after a petition

A senior lecturer who knocked out his student girlfriend and poured salt in her eyes has finally been axed from his senior position - after 3,000 people signed a petition calling action.

Lee Salter, a media and communications lecturer at the University of Sussex , was last month convicted of assaulting 24-year-old Allison Smith, who he met during induction.

It was revealed that in September last year Salter had punched Ms Smith in the face, knocked her out, stamped on her and poured salt into her eyes and ears.

He was arrested at the time, charged in June and appeared at Brighton Magistrates' Court last month, denying the charges.

Salter was eventually found guilty and received a 22-week prison sentence suspended for 18 months, forced to do 150 hours of unpaid work and was told not to contact his victim.

Twitter@Allison Smith Allison Smith, 24, was having an affair with her lecturer who assaulted her

Despite the conviction, Salter's employers Sussex University kept him on the payroll and he was allowed to continue - for the entire time he was on bail.

Ms Smith had spoken of the "extreme physical and emotional trauma" that had experienced during the pair's year-long relationship.

But this weekend, under pressure from a 3,000-strong petition and other groups within the university, it released a statement confirming that Salter is no longer employed by the university.

Twitter@Allison Smith Allison Smith was left with bruising to her face after the assault

The statement said: "Dr Lee Salter is no longer employed by the University of Sussex.

"Due to the court proceedings there were some things we were unable to comment on but this matter has been, and will continue to be, of utmost priority for the university.

"We will be reviewing all relevant University regulations and procedures and will comprehensively address any concerns or lessons which may arise from this case.

"The university does not tolerate violence of any sort and the safety of our students is absolutely paramount."

Student newspaper The Tab called for Sussex University to terminate Salter's contract by pointing out the hypocrisy in the university's championing of safety and well-being campaigns entitled 'I Heart Consent' and 'Safer Sussex'.

Allison Smith Allison Smith was knocked out in the frenzied attack

Prior to the university's statement, the gender studies centre said: "We are deeply saddened by the revelations which have emerged concerning the university today, and our hearts are with brave Allison Smith who has spoken out about her experience.

"Colleagues at the centre and elsewhere in the university have been working hard for a number of years now to address issues around sexual and gender-based violence against students, and a lot of progress has been made - but this case is a crushing reminder that there is much left to do.

"We continue our work with renewed urgency, and will be asking for a strong commitment by the university to the protection of our students.

"We are in solidarity and grief with the student and staff community."

Twitter@Allison Smith One of Allison Smith's injuries showed serious bruising

After Salter was sacked, Allison said she was grateful for the "warm messages of support".

She said: "Thank you for all your support. I was beyond anxious seeing the coverage, but opening Twitter and FB to see warm messages of support gave me hope.

"People sharing their own experiences made me realise how important it was to have shared my own.

"Now it is imperative the university work hard to review the policies that failed to protect students and clearly communicate the outcome.

"They must take violence against women seriously.

"It should not have had to take 10 months, public outcry, a petition started by a Sussex student (so grateful for that) and sharing extremely personal feelings for these changes to be made."

The news of Salter's separation from the university was met with jubilation on social media.

Becca Reilly-Cooper wrote: "This is excellent and important. Why didn't Sussex Uni suspend Lee Salter immediately?"

Gina Jolliffe wrote: "The right decision, whoever took it, about Lee Salter. Why did it take so long?"