http://www.dailynews.com/social-affairs/20161012/wendy-greuel-named-executive-in-residence-for-csun-business-college
186
18
NORTHRIDGE >> The former “pothole queen” of Los Angeles has just been named executive-in-residence at a Cal State Northridge college of business.

Former City Controller Wendy Greuel, known for pothole patching during her seven years on the City Council, was named house executive last month at the David Nazarian College of Business and Economics, the university announced this week.

“I grew up in the San Fernando Valley and have watched Cal State Northridge as it’s grown into the wonderful university that it is today,” Greuel said in a statement. “This is my chance to give back to the university that I think is the foundation for what the San Fernando Valley is today.”

Greuel grew up in North Hollywood, where her parents owned Frontier Building Supply, which she still co-owns with her brother. She and her family’s original plan was for her to take over the family business after attending UCLA.

While student body president at Kennedy High School, she met then-Mayor Tom Bradley, for whom she became an aide, creating L.A.’s Best after-school program to working on housing issues.

From City Hall, she went to work for the administration of President Bill Clinton as an aide to Housing Secretary Henry Cisneros, where she coordinated a response to the 1994 Northridge earthquake, securing more than $1 billion in federal funding.

• RELATED STORY: Cal State Northridge business college celebrates 50 years

That led to a job at DreamWorks, where she worked as a government liaison.

In 2002, Greuel was elected to the City Council in an upset victory over then-Assemblyman Tony Cardenas.

At City Hall she was dubbed “pothole queen” for her efforts to focus on basic issues such as filling potholes, fixing bathrooms and public parks, wiping away graffiti, as she pushed for a Valley fair share of city resources.

She served as City Controller from 2009 to 2013, ferreting out waste and spearheading a new performance based budgeting. In 2013, she ran unsuccessfully for mayor.

Greuel, who is married to Hollywood agent and film producer Dean Schramm, now serves as a consultant for the Discovery Cube Los Angeles in Lake View Terrace. She also serves on the board of the Los Angeles Homeless Services Authority.

Administrators for the CSUN Nazarian College, which just celebrated its 50th anniversary, prized Greuel’s public sector experience.

• RELATED STORY: CSUN business college gets $5 million donation from alumni couple

“She will be an important ally in our efforts to forge new relationships that will add value and opportunity for our students,” said Kenneth R. Lord, dean of the business college. “Additionally, she brings a passion for advancing opportunities for women in business.”

Advertisement

Greuel said she looks forward to working with students to share her understanding of regional economic and social issues. She said government agencies rely on higher education for research and talent.

“I just want to make sure CSUN and the vital roles it and its students and faculty play -- not just in the Valley, but in the region – are not forgotten,” she said.