http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3832245/Drug-addled-Indiana-mother-accused-smothering-two-children-abducting-says-decided-kill-hearing-Amber-Alert-issued.html
180
18
A young mother accused of smothering to death her two young children after abducting them has said she decided to kill them after hearing an Amber Alert had been put out.

Amber Pasztor, 29, has pleaded not guilty to murdering her daughter, seven-year-old Liliana Hernandez, and son Rene Pasztor, who was six, in Fort Wayne, Indiana.

Pasztor, who was arrested last month, is due to go on trial in January.

But last night, in a telephone interview from jail, she told WANE-TV she killed the children so they would be safe in heaven.

Confused: Amber Pasztor, 29 (left), has pleaded not guilty in court to murdering her six-year-old son Rene Pasztor (center) and her seven-year-old daughter Liliana Hernandez (right) but yesterday admitted in a TV interview she had killed them

Pasztor, a drug addict, said: 'My kids are in a better place...They don't have no worries no more.'

She is accused of murdering the children on September 26.

The children's bodies were found in the back of a car five hours after authorities issued an Amber Alert following their abduction from their grandparents' home, saying they were 'believed to be in extreme danger'.

But Pasztor told WANE-TV the Amber Alert did not save their lives, but did the opposite - she panicked and killed them.

Pasztor told the TV station she also she shot her neighbor Frank Macomber, 66, and took his car. She has not been charged in connection with his death.

She said she arranged to have sex with him in a wooded area and then shot him with his own gun and dumped the gun in a Michigan river.

Shocking admission: Pasztor (pictured) told police she smothered her children by placing her hands over their noses and mouths after taking them to a park and a restaurant

Pasztor showed no emotion in court Monday as Judge Terry Shewmaker read aloud the charges against her.

The probable cause affidavit says Pasztor told police she had kicked in a door at her parents' Fort Wayne home, abducted the children, took them to a park and a restaurant and then smothered them by placing her hands over their noses and mouths.

Pasztor has a third child that she left behind at her parents' home.

Her father, Ricky Green, said: 'I want to say to my daughter who did this, that she is not my daughter any more. I want her to burn.'

She is due back in court on October 27 for a pretrial conference.

Video Courtesy WANE

Grandmother speaks out: Amber's mother, Leanne Pasztor (center) said her daughter is 'crazy' and 'evil'

'Motive': Leanne Pasztor (pictured left) said she thought her daughter killed her children so that no one else could have them. Amber Pasztor lost custody of the pair (right) more than a year ago

According to their grandmother, Rene (left) and Liliana (right) were fearful of their mother, who is said to be a drug addict

Amber Pasztor's mother, Leanna, said she was not surprised to learn of the charges against her daughter, whom she labeled 'evil.'

'We thought she was crazy,' she said of her daughter, who had lost custody of her two children more than a year ago due to drug addiction.

'I think her thought was, "If she can't have them, nobody can."'

Liliana and Rene, who according to their grandmother were scared of their mother, had moved in with another relative, Emily Lasko Green, and were apparently happy in their new home.

Happier times: Rene and Liliana had been living with another relative, Emily Lasko Green, who said that the pair were very happy in their new home

Green told the website that she had gone through 'hell' to gain custody of the brother and sister, whom she described as 'wonderful.'

'They were our babies,' Green said. 'God gave us babies and she took them away.'

Frank Macomber, 65, was believed to be with Pasztor when she kidnapped her children Monday morning and his body was later found just half a mile from the home where the kids were abducted

The body of Frank Macomber was found early Tuesday morning by an FBI agent searching the area near the home where the two children were abducted.

A prosecutor said Macomber probably died before the children were abducted.

Police issued an Amber Alert for Liliana and Rene early last Monday, after Amber Pasztor allegedly broke into her father Ricky Green's home in Fort Wayne and kidnapped them just after 6am. Green's wife Emily was allegedly sleeping at the time and didn't hear anything.

Pasztor's father gained custody of Liliana and Rene - as well as his daughter's other three-year-old son - a little more than a year ago. It's reported that Pasztor struggles with drug addiction.

Five hours after the Alert was issued, Pasztor drove to the Elkhart police station and stopped a cop who was just getting off work and informed him about the bodies in the trunk of her car.

Pasztor allegedly broke into her father's home in Fort Wayne at around 6am on September 26 and kidnapped Rene and Liliana

Green gained custody of the children when his daughter became addicted to drugs. Liliana (left) and Rene (right) pictured above

Pasztor has a criminal record including arrests for invasion of privacy and criminal trespassing. She's pictured on the left in a Facebook photo and on the right in an older mugshot

Anyone with any information is asked to contact the Elkhart Police Department at 1-574-295-7070 or the Tip Line at 1-574-389-4777.