http://nation.com.pk/national/15-Aug-2016/polygraph-test-reveals-qandeel-was-given-sleeping-pills-before-strangulation
180
18
MULTAN: Police today received reports of polygraph tests of key criminals in Qandeel Baloch murder case while teams were formed to take Mufti Abdul Qawi, suspended member of Central Ruet-e-Hilal Committee, in custody after he was nominated in the case.

Reportedly, Qawi’s mobile phone has been turned off ever since he was nominated in the case.

Meanwhile, polygraph tests of key criminals in the case, Waseem and Haq Nawaz have matched their statements during interrogations.

Earlier, Superintendent of Police Multan Cantonment area, Saifullah Khan Khattak said that the pictures Baloch clicked with the clergyman in Karachi led to her death.

He further stated that the police could not hand him a clean chit until investigations were concluded.

The social media sensation had met Qawi in Karachi, around two months before she was murdered by her brother in the name of ‘honour’ on July 16 in Multan. After pictures of the meeting surfaced, Qawi was suspended from his post and is now fighting a legal case.

Qawi, on the other hand has said that it was unfair to tighten the noose around him after Waseem, the key criminal had confessed to the crime and named co-conspirators.

He has claimed innocence ever since he was contacted by police after Baloch’s murder.

This is not the first time Qawi, as he puts it, is being dragged into the case as the police had dispatched a questionnaire to him earlier asking several questions the department deemed imperative for the investigation.

The cleric provided Multan police with the answers required in which he claimed that he met Baloch only once in Karachi.

Waseem, during a polygraph test last month in Lahore stated that Haq Nawaz, his cousin strangled the Facebook celebrity while he, Waseem, grabbed her arms.

He also revealed that the his elder brother who resides in Saudi Arabia telephoned the family after Baloch’s pictures with the clergyman saw the light of the day and taunted him of being a mere spectator when their sister was being ‘ridiculed’ in the society.