http://www.vanguardngr.com/2016/09/herdsmen-attack-buharis-silence-fuelling-continuous-attack-pfn/
180
18
*NSCDC allays fears of reprisal attack on Anambra, Imo communities

*As Ugwuanyi inaugurates security committee

By Enyim Enyim, Francis Igata, Chinedu Adonu & Ifunanya Ozogwu

ENUGU—THE chairman Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria, PFN, Rev. Dr. Goddy Madu, yesterday blamed the rampaging activities of herdsmen across the country on the silence of President Muhammadu Buhari.

The PFN chairman in Enugu State, Rev. Goddy Madu described the herdsmen as “Boko Haram in disguise and agents of Islamization.”

His words: “The recent attack on Attakwu community of Enugu State is what we can no longer condone in any way. It was deadly and unprovoked attack on a peace-loving community and this happened while we are yet to recover from the massacre at Nimbo in Uzo-Uwani Council Area.

“We are not happy over the silence of President Muhammadu Buhari over these attacks. He should make a strong statement to stop these useless and wicked attacks by Fulani herdsmen.

“He is busy sending soldiers after Boko Haram, Niger Delta Avengers and the rest, with the exception of Fulani herdsmen, who now terrorize good citizens of Nigeria without recourse.”

Madu, however, called on the various South-East communities to initiate steps towards defending themselves, stressing that “you should not fold your hands and watch these wicked herdsmen destroy your villages. You should try to safeguard your lands and farm.”

CAN tasks Enugu Assembly, others

Similarly, the Secretary of the Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN, Enugu State chapter, Rev. Jospeh Ajujungwa has called on the Enugu State House of Assembly and other South-East states to immediately enact laws that would put an end to the deadly activities of herdsmen.

“The only way to end this menace is by enacting a law. The House of Assembly should do this as a matter of urgency.Ekiti State has taken the lead in this regard and Enugu has suffered from the activities of herdsmen more than Ekiti”, he noted.

NSCDC allays fear of reprisal attacks

Meanwhile, Anambra State Commandant of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, NSCDC, Mr. Godwin Omorege has dismissed as false and mischievous stories making the rounds that the dreaded Fulani herdsmen were planning a reprisal attack on border communities around Imo and Anambra States.

Penultimate week, irate youths in Akokwa community of Imo State near Anambra were said to have attacked an Hausa/Fulani settlement in the area for allegedly killing a woman and a young girl .

Following the development, border communities namely Umuchu, Amaesi in Anambra and Akokwa, Osina in Imo State have become apprehensive over rumours that the Hausa/Fulani communities that fled the area as a result of the attack have regrouped to launch a reprisal attack on them.

Speaking with the Vanguard in his Awka office, Omorege noted that there was no such plot by the herdsmen, adding that security personnel have been beefed up as a proactive measure against any possible attack.

Ugwuanyi inaugurates security committee

Also in Enugu state, the attacks by Fulani herdsmen which have claimed 17 lives in the last four months,yesterday, prompted Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi to formally inaugurate a constituted Security Committee.

The committee, Vanguard gathered, is an all inclusive Committee which is distinct from the State Security Council, and has as its Chairman, a regarded and vastly experienced former senior member of the nation’s Armed Forces in the person of Brigadier General Fred Eze (rtd).

In a well attended inaugural ceremony that attracted traditional,religious,judicial stakeholders among others,Ugwuanyi, while explaining the choice of Eze said,”in service, Brigadier General,Eze held many important and strategic positions among which were; Sector Commander Sector South and simultaneously, Nigerian Contingent Commander African Union/ United Nations Hybrid Mission in Darfu-Sudan; Chief of Staff Infantry Corps Centre Jaji-Kaduna,, Deputy Director Plans, Department of Policy and Plans, Defence Headquarters, Garki Abuja; Team Leader, United Nations Mission in Congo (MONUC), Democratic Republic of Congo; Company Commander, Nibatt 1 (29 bn), United Nations Protection Force (Unprpfor), Croatia, Former Yugoslavia and many others.

“In addition to being the Chairman of this Security Committee, Brigadier General Eze has also been appointed the Special Adviser to the Governor on Security Matters.

“The Committee also comprises members of the Enugu State Executive Council, members of the Enugu State House of Assembly, the Security Agencies, Local Government Council Chairmen, representatives of the Fulani, Shuwa Arab and Hausa communities in Enugu State, representatives of Cattle Market Traders, Traditional Rulers, President Generals of Town Unions, Neighbourhood Watch Associations, representatives of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and Student leaders in Enugu State.

“Similar committees are to be constituted in each Local Government Council and in each political ward in the state.

“Enugu State is in the hands of God and as we all know, she is rated as one of the most secure and peaceful states in the country. Also, the State capital Enugu, continues to enjoy a pride of place as the first and only city in the country to be listed among the 100 most resilient cities of the world.

“The constitution of this Committee was necessitated by the desire of this administration to consolidate this enviable status of the state through the continued maintenance of a high level of security and the elimination and prevention of circumstances or incidents that threaten peace and security of lives and properties in the state

“The Committee is therefore charged with the responsibility of taking all necessary and lawful measures to ensure security and lasting peace and harmony among various communities and in all corners of the State.

“I therefore enjoin all members of the committee, to approach this all important task with requisite zeal, sincerity and commitment, in the interest of all citizens and the entire society. I assure them of the full support and cooperation of the State Government towards the attainment of the Committee’s set objectives”.