https://www.yahoo.com/news/five-dead-women-linked-ohio-234514466.html
181
18
Ohio investigators say they've linked suspected serial killer Shawn Grate to a fifth dead woman, charging him in two homicides so far, and that there may be even more victims to find, PEOPLE confirms.



During a Monday news conference, Marion County Sheriff Tim Bailey said the 40-year-old Grate allegedly admitted to killing an unidentified woman more than 10 years ago, abandoning her remains at a remote dumping site.



The woman's skeleton was found in 2007, and Bailey said Grate allegedly told detectives the unnamed woman was his very first victim.



Bailey said they've yet to identify her remains, noting Grate has been trying to remember the woman's name to no avail.



Grate allegedly told investigators he'd killed her because his mother was upset she did not get the magazines the woman was selling, Bailey said.



Bailey also said Grate's ex-girlfriend told police he'd previously referred to killing a woman, but that she didn't believe him.





"He's obviously a serial killer," the sheriff told reporters. Grate has been linked to five dead women, Bailey said – and he said there could be more, whose bodies have not been recovered.



Bailey said Grate has been "very polite" throughout his interrogations. "It's hard to believe there aren't other bodies out there," Bailey said.



Under questioning, Grate allegedly told investigators he wanted to clear his conscience. "He said he wanted to get it off his chest," Bailey explained Monday, "and I think he's found God."



A year after dumping the unnamed woman's remains, Grate allegedly returned to her shallow grave and set fire to her corpse, fearing some DNA evidence could still be present on the body, Bailey said.



• Want to keep up with the latest crime coverage? Click here to get breaking crime news, ongoing trial coverage and details of intriguing unsolved cases in the True Crime Newsletter.



Last week, Grate was taken into custody in Ashland, Ohio, after police received a desperate 911 from a woman he had allegedly abducted.



After arresting Grate, local police recovered the remains of three women: Two of their bodies were found in an abandoned home Grate had been squatting in; and hours later, police found a third body, which had been dumped not far from the deserted home.





Grate has been charged with killing two women – Elizabeth Griffin, 29, and Stacey Stanley, 43 – and kidnapping another.



He is a suspect in two more homicides, Bailey said: the woman whose remains were found in 2007 and a second woman who was killed last year and whose body was found Monday. Five dead women have been discovered so far in connection with Grate, including the three recovered after the alleged abduction, Bailey said.



The call to Ashland's 911 was made by a woman who claimed she'd met Grate a month earlier. As her alleged captor slept, the caller was able to lead authorities to the abandoned house where she was allegedly being held against her will.



Grate is in custody at the Ashland County Jail on $1 million bail. During a court appearance Monday, he pleaded not guilty to two counts of murder and one count of kidnapping. He has not retained a lawyer.



Grate will be back in court on Sept. 29.

View photos Five Dead Women Linked to Ohio Murder Suspect: 'He's Obviously a Serial Killer'| Crime & Courts, Murder, True Crime More