http://aninews.in/newsdetail-NHJqWEd3/Mjc1OTk3cmpYR3c/pak-pm-dedicates-independence-day-to-freedom-movement-in-kashmir.html
180
18
Pak PM dedicates Independence Day to freedom movement in Kashmir Updated: Aug 14, 2016 11:05 IST

Islamabad, Aug. 14 ( ANI ): As Pakistan celebrates its 70th Independence Day, Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif today dedicated the day to the freedom movement in Kashmir.

"I dedicate this year's 14th August to the freedom of Kashmir," the Express Tribune quoted Sharif as saying.

An official release by the Prime Minister's house states the main Independence Day event will be a flag-hoisting ceremony in the federal capital, where President Mamnoon Hussain would address the nation.

The flag-hoisting ceremonies would also be held in all provincial capitals and district headquarters.

Sharif also paid homage to the martyrs, who have laid down their lives for the country.

"We remember all our martyrs from every segment of the state. They are in every political party.every field of life. every sect.every religion. They are all Pakistanis. They are individuals of one nation," he said.

He also said that this 14th August also carried deep feelings of grief as the pain of Quetta's martyrs is still fresh.

Remembering Quaid-e-Azam Mohammad Ali Jinnah, he said that Pakistan's creation was impossible without the former's leadership.

"When we remember the Quaid, leaders and workers of Pakistan Movement, our hearts are enlightened with the memory people who have become immortal by sacrificing their lives for the country," he said.

Meanwhile, President Mamnoon in his Independence Day message urged the nation to forge unity to secure a better and brighter future for the coming generations.

"We need to initiate the process of correction individually, then from homes and communities to derive more benefits and ensure the democratic values take root at the state, governmental and administrative levels to pave the way for a meaningful change," he said.

Chief Justice Anwar Zaheer Jamali also extended heartiest felicitations to the countrymen.

The day will finally dawn with a 31-gun salute in Islamabad and 21-gun salute in the provincial capitals. ( ANI