http://www.khmertimeskh.com/news/31037/more-garment-workers-injured/
186
18
Twenty-two garment workers were injured yesterday morning when their truck was rear-ended by a cement truck in Takeo province’s Tram Kak district, according to the Ministry of Labor.



A ministry statement said a truck carrying 30 workers was hit from behind on the way to their workplace, injuring 22, including four seriously.



“The accident happened at 6:25am in Ang Tasom commune while they were traveling to their factory, but when they reached the scene, a cement truck following the workers’ truck hit the back of the truck when the cement truck tried to avoid another car,” it read.



It added that police and National Social Security Fund (NSSF) officials helped the injured workers and would be responsible for their treatment.



However, deputy district police chief Cheal Phat told Khmer Times yesterday that only eight workers were injured in the accident.



“I don’t know where the Ministry of Labor got the figure from, but at the scene there were only eight workers who were slightly injured,” he said.



Mr. Phat said the accident was caused by the cement truck as it swerved to avoid a car that was parked on the street, adding that it was fortunate the cement truck was moving slowly when it ran into the back of the workers’ truck.



“After the accident, we took the cement truck driver to our office for questioning and we didn’t arrest him because he agreed to negotiate with the workers. Both sides agreed with each other without filing a complaint,” he said.



Meanwhile, one woman died and 18 were injured in an accident in Svay Rieng province’s Romeas Hek district on Tuesday when their truck crashed.



A district police officer who declined to be named said yesterday that the truck, which was transporting cassava farm laborers, was speeding at the time of the accident.



He said police were seeking the driver who fled after the accident.



According to the NSSF, the first half of this year saw 42 deaths, 412 were seriously injured and 2,395 suffered minor injuries.