http://www.politico.com/tipsheets/morning-education/2016/10/clinton-slams-trump-over-bullying-in-schools-216764
180
18
Clinton slams Trump over bullying in schools

With help from Andrew Hanna, Benjamin Wermund and Kimberly Hefling

CLINTON NODS TO ‘TRUMP EFFECT’: A debate that was remarkable for its nastiness opened with a question that was rooted in education. A woman during Sunday’s town-hall-style event asked whether, given that many educators assign debate-watching as homework for their classes, the candidates believe they are “modeling appropriate and positive behavior for today’s youth?” Hillary Clinton, answering first, asked the woman whether she was a teacher, and said it was “a good question,” because she’s heard “from lots of teachers and parents” about concerns over statements and actions emerging from the campaign trail.

Story Continued Below

— Clinton said it needs to be made clear to children that our “country really is great because we are good — and we are going to respect one another, lift each other up.” She talked in general terms about inclusiveness and the importance of increasing diversity, and touched on the need to make “sure we have the best education from preschool through college, and making it affordable.” Donald Trump said he agreed with his opponent, “this is a great land” — before launching into talking points on the economy and foreign policy. Under questioning from moderator Anderson Cooper, Trump defended his misogynistic comments from a 2005 video, dismissing them as “locker room talk — I’m not proud of it.”

— Later, embracing an argument teachers unions have made for weeks, Clinton said that Trump is responsible for an increase in bullying and fear in schools. “Teachers and parents call it the ‘Trump effect,’” Clinton said. “Bullying is up. A lot of people are feeling uneasy, a lot of kids are expressing their concerns.” POLITICO’S Sarah Wheaton has more. And Kimberly Hefling fact-checked the claim and found that while it was an accurate representation of a survey of 2,000 K-12 teachers conducted by the Southern Poverty Law Center, an advocacy group, the SPLC itself conceded that the survey was based on online responses and wasn’t therefore a random or nationally representative sample.

— You’ll likely hear more about the “Trump effect” in coming weeks. The National Education Association argues that Trump’s behavior is spurring an increase in bullying, and says it’s planning to spend at least six-figures on both direct mail and digital ads targeted to its members that tie the GOP nominee to a rise in bullying.

— Clinton ally Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers, said in a statement: “While Trump tried to brush off his rhetoric as ‘just words,’ educators know how much harm words can cause. Trump’s behavior is leading to increased bullying in our schools and infecting a generation of children.”

— Trump didn’t directly address the bullying issue. He did reference education briefly, saying education in inner cities is a “disaster.” His comment came when asked if he could be a devoted president to “all the people.” He said Clinton has been talking about the inner cities for 25 years, but “nothing is going to ever happen.”

GOOD MONDAY MORNING. WELCOME TO MORNING EDUCATION. If you’re in the D.C. area and haven’t yet availed yourself of Sushi Capitol, you’re missing out big time.

Send feedback and tips: mstratford@politico.com or @mstratford. Share event listings: educalendar@politicopro.com. And follow us on Twitter: @Morning_Edu and @POLITICOPro.

MORE FIREPOWER TO HANDLE BACKLOG OF DEBT-RELIEF CLAIMS: Even as the Obama administration prepares to finalize this month a new streamlined system for forgiving the federal loans of defrauded borrowers, the Education Department is still struggling to keep up with the flood of claims it has received in recent months. It is turning to contractors to help sort through the backlog — most of which appears to stem from students who attended Corinthian Colleges and ITT Tech.

— The department earlier this year hired a D.C.-based staffing agency, Midtown Personnel Inc., to provide “paralegal and attorney support services,” to help sift through the tens of thousands of claims, according to a Morning Education review of federal records. The department bulked up its purchase of the staffing services on Sept. 26, just three days before Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) blasted the administration for being too slow in providing loan forgiveness to defrauded students.

— The department last month also hired a second firm, GCC Technologies, to provide “analyst support” for the backlog of outstanding claims and come up with “operational best practices” for how the department should handle claims.

— In total, the department has spent nearly $1 million on the extra help, according to federal procurement records. The Obama administration earlier this year asked Congress for $13.6 million to fund its new Student Aid Enforcement Unit, which is now responsible for processing the debt-relief claims as well as punishing colleges that engage in misconduct. Congress hasn’t acted on that request.

— Just how many claims remain outstanding? The department won’t say. But department officials wrote in a contract description that the staffing services were needed to address the “over 64,000” total debt-relief claims that are “pending processing.” A spokeswoman for the department declined to confirm the accuracy of that figure.

NEW FOR-PROFIT DATA TROVE COMING SOON: The Education Department is planning in the “near future” to publish the mean and median earnings of students who graduated from a for-profit college or other career school, officials announced Friday. The earnings data, which covers calendar year 2014, will be broken down by each program offered at the school. And the information will eventually be used to calculate debt-to-earnings rates under the Obama administration’s gainful employment rule. The administration has said it plans to release the final rates by January.

STRICKLAND: OHIO TAXPAYERS ‘RAPED’ BY FOR-PROFIT CHARTER FIRMS: Former Ohio Gov. Ted Strickland claimed last week that for-profit companies associated with charter schools have “raped” his state’s taxpayers, and are guilty of “moral theft of public resources,” reports POLITICO’s Burgess Everett. The Democrat, who is challenging GOP Sen. Rob Portman in the state’s Senate race, made the remarks at a senatorial forum. “I think thousands of our young people have been deprived of the opportunity to get a decent education because of the power of the charter school lobby in this state,” he added.

— Last year, Ohio Gov. John Kasich signed legislation designed to improve the state’s charter sector, which has faced a barrage of criticism for its online charter schools — schools that are generally low-performing and have ties to GOP donors. But problems have remained. Last month, the Education Department opted to release a $71 million grant to the state’s charter schools after a 10-month review. A group of Ohio Democrats last year had asked the department to scrutinize the awarding of the grant amid reports of misspent funds and falsified data. But the department, in releasing the grant, placed the state on “high-risk status” and put conditions on the flow of funding.

MINNESOTA SCRUTINIZES LAUREATE’S WALDEN UNIVERSITY: Minnesota education authorities have launched a review of Laureate Education’s online Ph.D. program at Walden University, a for-profit entity, NBC News reports. State officials told NBC that they were opening “a full program review” of Walden following an increase in the number of complaints “related to dissertations” at the school. Some students told NBC they were misled about how long it would take to complete their doctorates, and thus were forced to shoulder more debt than they’d anticipated. Laureate Education paid Bill Clinton $17.6 million for his five-year role as “honorary chancellor” of the company’s international branch.

WWII EDUCATION INITIATIVE PICKS TEACHERS — A professional development program has selected eighteen middle and high school teachers to take part in a course of study about America’s role in the Pacific Theater during World War II. The program, jointly sponsored by National History Day, the Roy Rosenzweig Center for History and New Media, the American Battle Monuments Commission, and the National Cemetery Association, seeks to promote classroom study of WWII. Teachers will get the opportunity to travel to San Francisco, Honolulu, and Manila, and will each conduct research on the life of a fallen American hero. By the end of the program, teachers will have developed a lesson plan for use in the classroom. Read more.

ICYMI — FEDS AWARD $480K TO FLINT SCHOOLS: The Education Department on Friday announced that it would give the Flint, Mich., school district a $480,000 grant to help it combat absenteeism and address students’ mental health needs amid the city’s water crisis. The department said Flint’s contaminated drinking water has affected both students and staff at Flint Community Schools, disrupting students’ education and placing additional burdens on the schools, for example, to provide “discipline” and “social work services.” Kimberly Hefling has more.

MOVERS AND SHAKERS

— Beth Akers, formerly of the Brookings Institution, is joining the Manhattan Institute as a senior fellow.

SYLLABUS

— Several online schools in Ohio say they plan to appeal the results of recent state audits and allege the state misled them about rules for documenting students’ work: The Cleveland Plain Dealer.

— Real estate owned by ITT Tech campuses across the country is up for sale as part of the for-profit college’s bankruptcy: The Wall Street Journal.

— Small colleges are frantically searching for other options after the sudden downfall of a Silicon Valley startup textbook supplier: The Chronicle of Higher Education.

— University bureaucracies grew 15 percent during the recession, even as budgets were cut: The Hechinger Report.

— New Jersey’s embattled student loan agency has started getting good reviews online by giving out flash drives: ProPublica.

— “How do you teach politics in the year of Donald Trump?” NPR.

Don’t be Stressed Out — follow the Pro Education team: @caitlinzemma (cemma@politico.com), @khefling (khefling@politico.com), @mstratford (mstratford@politico.com), @mrmikevasquez (mvasquez@politico.com) and @BenjaminEW (bwermund@politico.com).

** Presented by The 74: A FIRST-OF-ITS-KIND NEWS SOURCE FOR LOS ANGELES’ LATINO COMMUNITY — The74.org and LA School Report, two of the fastest-growing education news sites, have partnered to launch LA School Report en Español, the first and only Spanish-language education news site dedicated to the Los Angeles Latino community — a community that today comprises three-quarters of America’s second-largest school district. The daily news source provides hard-hitting news and commentary, written in Spanish, geared towards parents, students, educators, political leaders and activists. 74 co-founder and CEO Romy Drucker says “while newsrooms around the country have cut back on education reporting, The 74 and LA School Report continue to expand. With the introduction of LA School Report en Español, we are now able to provide even more readers with fact-based reporting and informed analysis on the issues facing Los Angeles schools.” See this morning’s headlines at http://espanol.laschoolreport.com/. **