http://nation.com.pk/islamabad/25-Sep-2016/girl-kidnapped-from-park-for-rs8m-ransom
180
18
Rawalpindi-A 22-year-old female student of Fatima Jinnah Women University (FJWU) was allegedly kidnapped for ransom from heavily-guarded Jinnah Park, reliable sources disclosed to The Nation yesterday.



Police on the complaint of the father of the victim girl began investigations to arrest the kidnappers and recover the abducted student, they said.



The kidnappers have demanded Rs 8 million ransom from the parents of the girl for her safe release, said a high ranking police officer.



A special police team under the supervision of DSP Civil Line Circle Farhan Aslam has been constituted by City Police Officer (CPO) Israr Ahmed Khan Abbasi to recover the girl.



According to sources, a citizen Nasar Minullah, resident of Askari-14, appeared before Police Station (PS) Civil Line and lodged a written complaint stating that her daughter (AN) has been kidnapped by unknown kidnappers from Jinnah Park on September 23 where she had gone for having lunch in her car.

The abducted girl is student of BS (Education) in FJWU, he said.

He added the kidnappers have been demanding ransom for her safe recovery.

The father appealed to the police to recover her daughter.



According to Call Data Record (CDR) of abducted girl obtained by police investigators it was found that girl was in touch with a young man on mobile phone, told an investigator seeking anonymity while talking to The Nation.

He said first the parents doubted involvement of a man namely Dawood in kidnapping of their daughter but later police traced the real accused through mobile data, he said.

He said police are tracing the location of the kidnappers and would soon arrest them.

He said the girl left her car in the park which was recovered by police and impounded in police station.



CPO Israr Ahmed Khan Abbasi, when contacted, said the kidnappers have called on mobile phone of the father of the girl and demanded Rs 8 million as ransom for her recovery.

He also expressed his doubt that it might be possible the girl had engineered all this “kidnapping drama” with the help of her male friend to receive money from her parents.

The CPO was of the view that police team has been utilising all the available resources to trace out the hideout of the alleged kidnappers.

“We will lodge FIR against the accused after finding some substantial evidence,” he said.



Meanwhile, police have arrested four suspected dacoits and recovered weapons from their possession, police said yesterday.



Civil Line police acting on a tip-off conducted a raid in Marir Hassan area in its jurisdiction and arrested four suspected dacoits namely Saleem, Khurram, Owais and Abdul Kabeer and recovered two 32-bore pistols with five rounds.

Further investigation is under way.

