http://nation.com.pk/islamabad/25-Sep-2016/man-kills-wife-three-in-laws-in-rawalpindi
182
18
Rawalpindi-An ex-service man has gunned down his wife, her parents and one sister after failure to woo his estranged wife.



His wife has left his home after quarrelling with him.

The gory incident occurred at Kakhra village, within the limits of Police Station Mandra, informed sources and police yesterday.



The accused Shamas Pervaiz, who was recently discharged from army, killed his wife Taslim Bibi (23), father-in-law Fazal-ur-Rehman (55), mother-in-law Khatoon Bibi and sister-in-law Tayyaba Bibi (20) by opening indiscriminate firing with a pistol, they said.



Police held the accused and recovered the weapon used in quadruple murder, they said.



According to sources and police, Shamas Pervaiz of Chak Beli Khan got married with Taslim Bibi one and half years ago and the couple had a six months old baby boy.

They said Taslim Bibi left house of her husband after having a quarrel with him and started living in the house of her father.

They said Shamas had gone to his father-in-law’s house to bring his enraged wife back.

They said he had an argument with his in-laws which heated up and he pulled out his pistol and opened indiscriminate firing.

The killer managed to escape after committing the crime, they informed.

They said Shamas also took away the son of his sister-in-law instead of his own six months old son.

Later, the accused left the baby at his home and fled.

The Rescue 1122 moved the dead bodies to Tehsil Headquarters (THQ) Hospital for autopsy.



A case was also registered against the killer with police station Mandra.



A police team raided the house of fleeing accused at Dhoke Bhattian in Chakbeli Khan and recovered the boy and reunited him with family.

Later, the police managed to arrest the accused along with the weapon used in crime.



SP Saddar Division Iftikharul Haq, when approached, confirmed the gruesome incident.

He said police arrested the accused and recovered weapon from his custody.

He said the police would produce the accused before a court of law for obtaining his physical remand.



Separately, a court bailiff recovered a Christian couple from the illegal custody of Waris Khan police.

The couple had been detained for the last four days on charges of house robbery.

Police also subjected the couple to brutal torture, sources informed The Nation yesterday.



According to sources, Additional District and Sessions Judge Rana Zahid dispatched a bailiff to police station Waris Khan in a complaint filed against illegal detention through Advocate Rabia Ishaq.



The bailiff recovered Irshad Mashi, 30, and his wife Shahbana from PS Waris Khan while police could not provide any FIR registered against the couple, they said.



Advocate Rabia Ishaq, while talking to The Nation, said that brother of Irshad approached her for recovery of his brother and his sister-in-law.

She said that the complainant alleged that the police picked up the couple four days ago on charges of robbery and had kept them in illegal custody since then.



The lawyer further said that the complainant said that a woman namely Sajida Bibi had accused his sister-in-law Shabana of stealing cash and jewellery from her house where Shabana worked as domestic servant.

The police following the complaint picked up the couple and allegedly tortured them without registering the case.



Rabia said that the judge would take up the case on Monday and the bailiff would submit the detailed report on the recovery.

She said that Irshad was kept at PS Waris Khan police and Shabana at Women police station.



Station House Officer (SHO) PS Waris Khan could not be contacted for his comments over illegal detention of the couple.

