http://www.business-standard.com/article/pti-stories/saamana-cartoonist-regrets-hurting-maratha-sentiments-116092800334_1.html
1822
18
A day after an office of mouthpiece 'Saamana' was stoned over a cartoon it carried alluding to the ongoing rallies, the cartoonist on Wednesday expressed regret over his work, which has triggered sharp reaction from across the political spectrum in Maharashtra.

"The sentiments of community were hurt by my cartoon. But, there was never an intention to hurt anybody. Yet, I express regret if sentiments were hurt unintentionally," cartoonist said in a statement carried on the front page of Saamana.

"The controversy over the cartoon was unnecessary. I am an artist and not a political cartoonist. In a busy life, my intention is to put a smile on people's face and thus I make cartoons," he stated.

He, however, alleged that the issue was politicised and the Sena and were unnecessarily dragged into the controversy.

The cartoon has come at a time when the community has been organising rallies all around the state to express outrage over the rape and murder of a girl from the community at Kopardi and press their various demands including quota in education and job.

The rallies have evoked huge response, compelling all political parties to take note the grievances of the community, a dominant force in the state.

However, dissatisfied with the cartoonist's explanation, the Congress said mere "apology" by cartoonist is not enough, and demanded that the newspaper's editor (Sena MP) Sanjay Raut be booked.

"The editor has hurt the religious sentiments of the community. The cartoon could not have been published without his consent. This means it was deliberately published to mock community," Congress leader Nitesh Rane said.

"There are various IPC sections which deal with such cases. The chief minister should give a free hand to the police to book Sanjay Raut and pacify the Marathas," he said.

The office of in Navi Mumbai was stoned yesterday, allegedly over the cartoon, which alluded to the "silent marches" being taken out by community.

A pro- outfit, 'Sambhaji Brigade', immediately claimed the responsibility for the attack.

While the Sena termed the attack as a "deliberate mischief" by some people to create rift, its ally BJP took objection to the cartoon and demanded public apology from the newspaper.

The opposition Congress and NCP sought government action against the Sena mouthpiece for "hurting sentiments" of the community.

Meanwhile, Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant said is the mouthpiece of the and the party has to apologise and not just the cartoonist.

"Not owning up mistake is not a wise thing. Such a cartoon could get published because of the anti- and anti-women mindset of the party," he charged.

Sawant said cannot wash its hands off the controversy by getting only the cartoonist apologise.

NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said a cartoonist can draw anything but those who publish it are equally responsible.