http://www.philstar.com/headlines/2016/08/23/1616347/dilg-checking-drug-links-50-mayors
1831
18
MANILA, Philippines - Authorities are verifying the involvement of about 50 more local executives in illegal drug trade, a Cabinet official said yesterday.

Interior and Local Government Secretary Ismael Sueno said many more officials with possible drug links were not yet among the names revealed by President Duterte.

“If we include the barangay captains, maybe hundreds,” Sueno told a press conference at Malacañang. “If (we’re talking about) local executives, maybe not. Maybe about 50. They are being validated up to now.”

Sueno said it would be up to the President to decide whether to expose the names of local executives with links to drug personalities.

“All I can say is that, there are more who were not announced by the President,” the DILG chief said.

Sueno said the high number of officials believed to be involved in the narcotics trade reflects the seriousness of the problem.

Headlines ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1

“This says that the problem on drugs is enormous. It has expanded not only in one province but all throughout the country,” he said.

“We can understand the passion of the President in really eliminating drugs because it has proliferated, mainly because of the protection given by our local executives and our police,” he pointed out.

Duterte has so far exposed more than 160 incumbent and retired local executives, police, military jail and fire officials as being into illegal drugs. He has vowed to shame more of the so-called “narco officials” as part of his effort to suppress illegal drug trade in three to six months.

‘Model local executives’

Sueno said the administration would also come up with a list of “model local executives” who were able to demonstrate good governance in their respective areas.

“They are governors in governance and transparency. They are awardees and they are good in disaster preparedness. They have made their provinces competitive when it comes to business,” he said. “The President is not only exposing the bad guys, but also the good guys in government.”

Sueno confirmed that those who belong to political dynasties and those with pending charges before the Office of the Ombudsman are supposed to be excluded from the list. – With Giovanni Nilles, Delon Porcalla