http://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-3831779/Lara-Bingle-strips-create-intimate-homemade-belly-cast-growing-baby-bump-ahead-second-child.html
180
18
She's awaiting the arrival of her second bundle of joy after giving birth to her first child, Rocket, last year.

And, Lara Worthington (nee Bingle) chose to capture the special moment by preserving her burgeoning baby bump in a white plaster cast.

The 29-year-old model took to Instagram on Monday to flaunt the homemade 'belly cast', explaining it was a family tradition.

Scroll down for video

Family ritual: Model Lara Worthington (nee Bingle) took to Instagram on Monday to flaunt her fresh homemade 'belly cast', explaining it was a 'ritual' in her family during pregnancies

Bumping along nicely: Lara often takes to Instagram to document her pregnancy journey

The media personality's post read: ''It's a ritual in my family!' as she shared the messy snap of the finished product.

Having to strip down for the cast to properly set, the end product revealed her growing bump and bosoms ahead of the arrival of her second son.

Fans labeled the sweet post as 'so beautiful and memorable'.

In bloom: Lara Worthington, 29, shared a unique artwork to Instagram in recent weeks, presumably of her own pregnant naked body

Meanwhile the wife of Sam Worthington, also shared a unique snap to Instagram in recent weeks, while at her home in New York.

The blonde beauty posted a black and white image that featured the outline of a pregnant naked body, presumably her own silhouette, with the caption: 'My Friday night'.

The artwork saw a pregnant woman lying in either a bath or on a bed, completely naked.

The snap captioned 'My Friday night,' was an instant hit with her social media fans.

Challenge: The image comes just after the popular personality admitted to blog Tomboy Beauty via The Daily Telegraph, that the thought of giving birth again is 'scary'

The image comes just after the popular personality admitted that the thought of giving birth again is 'scary'.

'Knowing you have to give birth and there is no other way you can go is scary,' she confessed to blog Tomboy Beauty, via The Daily Telegraph.

Lara explained that once you're pregnant 'there's no going back,' but admitted it's a difficult concept to explain to people without children.

Family ties: The entrepreneur gave birth to baby boy Rocket Zot last year, and is set to welcome her second child with husband Sam Worthington (L) in coming months

While the former swimsuit model has kept quiet about her pregnancy to the media, Who magazine reports that she's been telling friends she's expecting a boy.

'She was quite open, saying how happy she is,' a source told the magazine.

In July, Lara praised her actor husband Sam in an interview with InStyle magazine.

'He's a hands-on dad,' she said.

She added: 'He's not one to sleep through the night and not help'.

While many A-list couples choose to hire outside help when raising their children, Lara and Sam, 40, have decided against it.

'Sam and I weren't brought up with any help... It's definitely a lot harder than I thought,' she said.