http://www.ibtimes.com.au/kim-kardashians-rear-receives-unwanted-kiss-vitalii-sediuk-hollywoods-most-aggressive-protester
181
18
Kim Kardashian West poses as she arrives for the 20th Annual Webby Awards in Manhattan, New York, U.S., May 16, 2016.

Kim Kardashian West poses as she arrives for the 20th Annual Webby Awards in Manhattan, New York, U.S., May 16, 2016. Reuters/Mike Segar

Kim Kardashian was assaulted in Paris on Wednesday by a man named Vitalii Sediuk, who also grabbed Gigi Hadid in Milan last week. It appears that Sediuk wanted to make a statement of his actions as a form of protest against the current state of fashion.

TMZ posted a video of the famous 35-year-old reality star as she was walking into a Paris store. Kim was being photographed by multiple paparazzi and had her security in tow. Even then, Sediuk found a way to slip past them and land a kiss on Kim’s rear end.

Kim’s security immediately removed him from her as she casually kept walking.

I was protesting Kim for using fake butt implants. I encourage her and the rest of Kardashian clan to popularise natural beauty among teenage girls who follow and defend them blindly. P.s. I was sitting there outside the posh restaurant to use free wifi and eating my ice-cream. When all of a sudden, the pack of paparazzi came out and the car with Kim Kardashian. I swear I didn't know she was going to be there. So I had to come out with an idea very fast. Does it mean if I don't go to celebrities, they come to me? Lol Have a nice evening everybody! I have to finish my ice-cream.. Photo credit: Goffphotos #kimkardashian A photo posted by Vitalii Sediuk (@vitaliisediuk) on Sep 28, 2016 at 10:47am PDT

Just last week, Sediuk was also the talk of many media reports as he grabbed 21-year-old Gigi and lifted her from the ground. Gigi was able to land an elbow on his face, which caused him to put the model down. Many praised Gigi for her quick thinking but wondered what Sediuk had against her.

Sediuk also attacked Brad Pitt during the premiere night of “Maleficent” at the El Capitan Theatre in Hollywood and “Vogue” editor Anna Wintour at last year’s Paris Fashion Week. His earlier assaults include trying to kiss Will Smith at the Russian premiere of “Men In Black III” and hiding under America Ferrera's dress at the “How To Train Your Dragon 2” premiere.

Anna be like: "Is it him?? Vitalii, is it you?? Again? Encore!!! But I'm nice to Anna this time ☺️ #cavalli #milano #annawintour #mfw A photo posted by Vitalii Sediuk (@vitaliisediuk) on Sep 22, 2016 at 1:33am PDT

“By doing this, I encourage the fashion industry to put true talents on the runway and ‘Vogue’ covers instead of well-connected cute girls from Instagram," Sediuk told The Hollywood Reporter, while making examples of Gigi and Kendall Jenner .

"You can call it a manifest or a protest,” he continued. “This is also a wake-up call for Anna Wintour, who turned ‘Vogue’ into a tabloid by putting Kardashians and other similar celebrities on a cover of a well respected magazine.”

He also said that calling his acts of “protests” as acts of “assault” are over-the-top.