http://www.news.com.au/world/middle-east/mosul-prepared-for-is-chemical-attack/news-story/22bfd28862fe8f423f32d58d384b44d8
180
18
Video

Image IRAQ: Villagers South of Mosul Suffer After Islamic State Sets Sulfur Plant Ablaze October 27 5:12 Over a thousand people have been treated for breathing problems since Islamic State set a sulfur facility ablaze near Mosul last week, as the militant group attempted to repel an offensive by Iraqi forces to drive them from the city ? one of their last remaining strongholds in Iraq. A toxic cloud triggered by the fire at Mishraq sulfur plant was spreading across northern and central Iraq, satellite imagery released by NASA showed. Villagers interviewed by al-Mawsleya, south of Mosul, some of whom had masks or scarves covering their faces, discussed the effects of the smoke, described as ?toxic, corrosive, and sometimes fatal? by health organizations. ?People in the area affected by the smoke said it was difficult to breathe, burned their eyes and stung their noses and throats when they inhaled it, and burned any exposed wet skin as the cloud intermittently blew over the area depending on winds,? Ben Kisling and Gordon Lubold wrote in a story for the Wall Street Journal on October 23. Credit: YouTube/al-Mawsleya

Staff writers AP

The UN’s public health agency said it has trained 90 Iraqi medics in “mass casualty management,” with a special focus on chemical attacks, as part of its preparations for Iraq’s operation to retake Mosul from the Islamic State group.

The extremist group, which has ruled Iraq’s second largest city for more than two years, is believed to have crude chemical weapons capabilities, and Iraqi forces say they are prepared to encounter them on the battlefield.

The World Health Organization said on Wednesday that of the 700,000 people expected to flee Mosul, some 200,000 will require emergency health services, including more than 90,000 children needing vaccinations and 8000 pregnant women.

The operation to retake Mosul began October 17 and is expected to take weeks, if not months. The fighting has not yet reached the city itself, which is home to more than a million people.

Last week, IS set fire to the Mishraq Chemical plant and sulphur mine 30km south of Mosul as they fled towards the city. To date, up to nine people have died and around 1000 have been injured, including foreign journalists.

The toxic cloud, which includes deadly sulphur dioxide and hydrogen sulphide, combined with residue from burning oil wells, is a potentially fatal cocktail for those caught in the open or without gas masks.

Iraq’s special forces said overnight that they have completed their objectives east of Mosul and are waiting on other forces to advance from the south in order to further isolate the city before moving in.

“The operation has not been stopped and is proceeding as planned,” Brig. Gen. Haider Fadhil said.

Iraqi forces have been battling IS militants around the town of Shura, 40 kilometres south of Mosul, in recent days. Iraqi officials have said the offensive is proceeding according to plan and that some operations are ahead of schedule.

The Mosul offensive is the largest Iraqi military operation since the 2003 US-led invasion, and involves more than 25,000 Iraqi soldiers, Federal Police, Kurdish forces, Sunni tribal fighters and state-sanctioned Shiite militias.

Fighting units are approaching the city from the north, east and south, and the US-led coalition is carrying out air strikes and providing ground support.

The International Organisation for Migration says around 9000 people have fled so far, but aid groups are preparing to receive 200,000 displaced people in the coming weeks and fear many more could flee before the operation is over.

The United Nations’ refugee agency is shipping tents, blankets and other aid from the United Arab Emirates to northern Iraq to help those affected by the military campaign. The shipment, which left Dubai’s International Humanitarian City overnight, is expected to reach those affected as soon as today.

Soliman Mohamed Daud, a senior UNHCR supply officer, said 7000 units of the relief aid will be sent to northern Iraq. The UAE shipment that left overnight includes some 1500 kits.