http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/2016-08/13/c_135594148.htm
182
18
KABUL, Aug. 13 (Xinhua) -- The ongoing militancy and violent incidents have claimed the lives of at least four civilians including three children and injured four others in a single day on Saturday, officials said.

In the latest bloody incident, a rocket allegedly fired by Taliban militants struck a house in Baghlan-e-Markazi district of the northern Baghlan province on Saturday afternoon, killing at least two innocent civilians and injured three others, according to a local official.

"A rocket fired by Taliban rebels struck a house in Shahi Khil village of Baghlan-e-Markazi district today afternoon killing two innocent civilians including a child and injured three others," Hajji Mohammad Tawab told Xinhua.

All the victims, which include women and children, belonged to one family, the official asserted.

An army spokesman in the province, Abdul Khalil in talks with Xinhua confirmed the bloody incident and said the deadly attack occurred amid ongoing fighting between security forces and the Taliban militants in the area.

Blaming Taliban outfit for the deadly attack, Khalil said the Taliban without care about human rights fired blind rockets to harm and terrorize the civilians.

Taliban militants fighting government forces in parts of the northern Baghlan province are yet to comment on the report.

In a similar violent incident which happened earlier in the day, a mortar fired by warring sides in the southern Uruzgan province struck a residential area outside provincial capital Lashkar Gah killing two children and wounding another, according to local officials.

Those who lost their lives, according to doctors at Trinkot hospital, are two 10-year-old boys and the injured one whose condition is not life threatening is also of the same age.

No group has claimed responsibility for the attack.

Civilians often bear the brunt of war in Afghanistan as more than 1,600 civilians had been killed and over 3,560 others injured in the first half of the current year, said a report of the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) released here last month.