http://www.indiatimes.com/news/india/bulandshahr-gang-rape-victim-moves-supreme-court-seeking-fir-against-azam-khan-259932.html
1821
18
A minor girl, who was gang-raped near Bulandshahr last month, has moved the Supreme Court demanding that FIRs be registered against Uttar Pradesh cabinet minister Azam Khan and the erring police officials.

i.ndtvimg

In her petition, the victim also demanded the transfer of this case to New Delhi, a court-monitored probe and security and rehabilitation for her family.

The gang-rape incident had taken place when six members of a Noida-based family were travelling to Shahjahanpur in western UP. At the national highway passing through Bulandshahr, their car was stopped by criminals who dragged the 13-year-old girl and her mother out and raped them in a field nearby.

After the gang-rape incident, Samajwadi Party leader Azam Khan kicked up a controversy with his insensitive remarks suggesting that this gang-rape could be a political conspiracy against the Uttar Pradesh government.

BCCL

In a snub to the Samajwadi Party government in Uttar Pradesh, the Allahabad high court on Friday ordered a CBI inquiry into the case observing that it was "not satisfied" with the police investigation so far.

The high court, which had taken suo motu cognisance of the July 29 incident, also said it intended to "monitor the investigation into the case".

BCCL

"We are not satisfied, neither with the way the investigation appears to be taking place nor with the material that has been placed on record," the court said and directed the state government to produce the FIR lodged in connection with the crime, the rape victims' medical reports and statements of witnesses by the next date of hearing on August 17.

The court also expressed dissatisfaction with details of the social background, criminal records and political affiliations - if any - which had been provided in the status report as per its earlier order, dated August 8, which was the first date of hearing on the matter.

Significantly, the court had made it clear at the outset that it intended to "monitor the investigation into the case" and not dispose of the matter which is being heard as a Public Interest Litigation, titled "In the matter of rape of mother and daughter at NH 91".