http://zeenews.india.com/news/uttar-pradesh/bulandshahr-gang-rape-minor-victim-moves-sc-seeks-fir-against-azam-khan_1918409.html
1821
18
New Delhi: The girl, who along with her mother was gang-raped at Bulandshahr last month, on Saturday moved the Supreme Court, seeking FIR against Uttar Pradesh minister and senior Samajwadi Party leader Azam Khan, who had triggered a political storm alleging a "political conspiracy" in the incident.

The minor victim also sought FIR against those police officers who did not pay attention to her family's complaints initially.

Seeking court-monitored investigation into the heinous incident, the victim wants the case to be transferred to Delhi.

The girl has further requested schooling for herself, and security and rehabilitation for her family.

Notably, Urban Development Minister Mohd Azam Khan had alleged that the gang-rape could have been a political conspiracy and should be investigated. Khan had received a fusillade of criticism for his comment from opposition political parties, women's groups, as well as the victim family's members .

The Allahabad High Court had on Friday ordered a CBI probe into the incident which took place on July 29.

A bench of Chief Justice DB Bhonsle and Justice Yashwant Verma had taken suo motto cognisance of the case and sought a report from the state police on the action taken in the matter.

The high court double bench asked the police to furnish before the court the statements of the victims from the case diary and asked the Senior Superintendent of Police Bulandshahr as to why a medical examination of the victims was not conducted.

It ordered the police investigating team to take the accused on remand for interrogation.

The high court directed the state government to take action against police officials who are callous in the discharge of their duties and have failed in containing crimes against women.

The court on Thursday had observed that women were not safe in the state and that crimes against women were on the rise.

A 34-year-old woman and her teenage daughter were raped after their car carrying six members of the Noida family was stopped by criminals on National Highway-91 in Bulandshahr last month.

The family was going to meet their relatives in Shahjahanpur in western Uttar Pradesh.

(With Agency inputs)