http://www.dailymail.co.uk/money/markets/article-3714448/Foxtons-profits-hit-London-property-market-slowdown.html
130
13
Profits at estate agent Foxtons tumbled 42 per cent in the first half of the year, and it said the drop was due to the decision to quit the European Union denting Londoners' appetite for buying and selling homes.

The firm, which has 63 branches almost all within the M25 motorway, handled sales of a little over 2,300 properties in London over the period, a 10 per cent drop from the previous year.

As a result pre-tax profits slumped from £18.1million to £10.5million for the six months ended June 30, on the back of overall sales dipping 3 per cent to £68.6 million.

Lettings revenues also suffered in the run-up to the referendum on 23 June, declining 2.7 per cent to £32.6million.

Warning: Uncertainty surrounding the EU referendum led to slow residential property markets in London during the first half of the year Foxtons said

Following the slowdown Foxtons will also review the pace of new branch openings, having opened five in the capital so far this year.

Last week French bank Société Générale warned that London property prices could fall by more than 30 per cent in the wake of Britain's vote to leave the EU and may halve in the most expensive parts of the city.

However agents are more worried about transaction levels, rather than property prices.

However the precise impact on transaction levels still remains unclear. According to Nationwide's monthly report on mortgage activity growth in UK house prices was steady in July, with the average price of a home increasing by 0.5 per cent to £205,715.

Foxtons chief executive Nic Budden said: 'Uncertainty surrounding the EU referendum led to slow residential property markets in London during the first half of the year.

'Q2 experienced a sharp contraction and we believe that the overall level of property sales transactions made in London during the first half of the year is substantially down on last year.

Like them or loathe them, Foxtons is known for its fleet of green and gold minis

'The result of the referendum to leave Europe is likely to lead to a prolonged period of further uncertainty and we do not expect London residential property sales markets to show signs of recovery before the end of the year.'

Analysts expect Foxtons to report a 3 per cent dip in full-year revenues to £146million in 2016 and for profits to fall to £34million, from £41million in the previous year.

Neil Wilson, analyst at ETX Capital, added: 'Foxton's results paint a pretty dire picture for the property market, particularly in London.

'Buyers and sellers were clearly holding back ahead of the vote, but the real question is whether they keep calm and carry on with their purchases, or pull out.

'Nationwide has said it could take months for the impact of the vote on the housing market to become clear, but it's certainly evident that activity slumped in the run-up to the referendum.

'It's unlikely that we'll see much uplift until at least Article 50 is triggered and there is greater certainty about the post-EU Britain.'

Laith Khalaf, senior analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown, continued: 'If the Brexit negotiations don't go well, the London property market is probably first in the firing line because financial jobs could move out of the city.

'However, at this early stage it's far too early to judge the likelihood of this happening.'

Yesterday fellow estate agent Countrywide reported a 25 per cent drop in profits for the first half, saying the London market had been especially badly affected by the Brexit knock to consumer confidence.

As a result the country's largest estate agent said its full year earnings would not be able to match 2015's figure of £113million.

The company said in its results report: 'We saw a slowdown in our retail and London residential businesses and, since the EU referendum result this has become more marked in London, the South East and expensive prime markets.'