http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/delhi/Chambal-gangs-flex-muscle-in-Delhi/articleshow/54802356.cms
1821
18
NEW DELHI: When you hear the name Chambal, the image of a bandit on horseback with a double-barrel gun slung across his shoulder comes to your mind. That's what years of Bollywood movies has done to you. The on-screen Chambal 'dakus' were also men of principle. The real-life Chambal bandits today have a different image. And character.Police say that the dacoits of Chambal have expanded beyond the ravines and are now abducting people from big cities like Delhi and other NCR towns. The Faridabad doctor and his compounder who were abducted from Jaitpur last month were victims of one such gang based out of Kampil. Even though Delhi Police managed to rescue them, they were intrigued by the unique modus operandi.The two key accused in this case, Rishi Khalifa and Pramod Kumar , were arrested from Hathras and Birpur last week. They were part of a gang that was operating in the capital region for the past few years.Khalifa had approached Kumar, who was a conduit for Chambal gangs, to float a new gang. DCP (southeast) Romil Baaniya who led the operations said the gangs operate out of estuaries and islands of the Ganga between Kanpur and Gwalior . The gang members are mostly former boatmen or mallahs who have a fair knowledge of the waterways that helps them to flee with booty or hide. They, like the legendary Chambal dacoits, depend solely on the villages for their needs.The gangs operate via conduits like Kumar to connect with local criminals in the cities who provide information about potential targets and also arrange for abduction. A victim is trailed for over a month before he is abducted. Weapons, vehicles and other means are arranged locally. Upon abduction, a victim is sedated for easier transportation.The victim is handed over to a conduit who then takes him to the Chambal gangs. "The victim is given minimum food and water so that he can't resist," said a police officer. The victim is then taken to an island where he is virtually buried in a pit, and covered with humus and earth to avoid detection."He's provided food and water through an iron pipe. He is also guarded by gunmen armed with the most sophisticated weapons available in the illegal market," said a police officer.Ransom calls are usually made a week later with the victim's phone to mislead the investigation.Sources say the Chambal region has at least three such organised gangs, each with around 20-30 men and led by Kalua, Rajesh Yadav and Surender. They operate from different parts of the ravines and compete against one another. In fact, Khalifa said during interrogation that bigger gangs wanted to snatch his catch and demand a higher ransom."They are very organised. Before they employ anyone, the profile is screened by the kingpins. If someone goes to jail, the gang funds his bail, jail expenses and also supports his family," said an officer.Villagers who gather intelligence are also paid well.