http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/boy-rescued-air-strike-syria-9034638
182
18
Jameel Mustafa Habboush stares in terror as he is found buried in rubble in Aleppo

A glazed stare of terror etched on his face, this is the moment a young Syrian boy was rescued from the rubble following another Russian air strike.

Jameel Mustafa Habboush found buried under the remains of a building in Aleppo by members of the civil defence volunteers – known as the White Helmets.

The child's bloodshot eyes stared blankly as he was given oxygen before being pulled the safety, his entire body covered in dust and debris.

The child's fate is unknown following his rescue on Tuesday in the rebel-held Fardous neighbourhood.

Getty The boy was found buried under the remains of a building

Getty The child was covered in dust and debris

Russian fighters, allied with Bashar al-Assad's regime , carried out its heaviest strikes in days, causing massive damage in several residential areas of the city's rebel-held east.

Vladimir Putin is being blamed for killing hundreds of Syrian children in the war-torn city.

Getty Incredibly, the little boy was alive and given oxygen by rescuers

Getty He was then pulled to safety by the civil defence volunteers – known as the White Helmets

The Russian President was condemned for having innocent blood on his hands as Moscow-backed airstrikes pounded civilian areas, destroying hospitals, bakeries and other non-military targets.

Last month the UN slammed both Russia and Syria ’s own ruling regime after 96 children died and 226 were injured in a single week in the hellish wrecked city of Aleppo.

Video loading Watch next Watch this video again Watch Next Click to play Tap to play The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

Getty

Getty

Senior UNICEF official Justin Forsyth said after two hospitals were blitzed: “The children of Aleppo are trapped in a living nightmare.”

And in August a report said Russia had killed 2,700 Syrian civilians in 11 months - more than Islamic State did in three years.

Video loading Click to play Tap to play The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

Elsewhere in Syria, footage emerged of a terrified child with blood streaming down her face crying for her father after the pair were caught up in another airstrike.

She quickly tells those treating her name, Aya, before going on to shout: "Baba, Baba" meaning father , while a man wipes the blood from her nose.

The father and daughter had been at home in Talbiash, a village just north of Homs, close to the border with Lebanon.

Little Aya was rushed from her house to a field hospital for treatment and had been separated in the chaos.

#RallyForAleppo

The world’s biggest charities are to march on Downing Street at noon on Saturday to demand Government intervention over the slaughter of children in Syria. And you can join in too. Show your interest and invite your friends here - or search Rally for Aleppo on Facebook.