http://www.vanguardngr.com/2016/10/kidnapping-siege-abuja-kaduna-road-troops-arrest-notorios-gang-zaria/
1831
18
By Kingsly Omonobi

Military authorities of the 1 division, Nigerian Army last night disclosed that troops have arrested some kidnapping kingpins who are members of a gang terrorizing and abducting several travellers and unsuspecting members of the public for ransom.

Also this came as three women who are suicide bombers for the Boko Haram terrorists group were killed yesterday before they could carry out their devilish act.

The arrest followed a hot pursuit after the gang was given out by citizens information when they attempted to kidnap some victims for ransom.

Giving details of the arrest, Col Sani Usman, Acting Director, Army Public Relations said, “On Wednesday 5th October 2016, troops of 1 Division Nigerian Army stationed in Anchau, Kubau Local Government Area of kaduna State, arrested 2 kidnappers in the process of collecting ransom from a kidnap victim’s family in the area.

“The arrest followed a tip off by well meaning Nigerians that the kidnappers had arrived Dutsen Wai for ransom collection from their hapless victim’s family. On receipt of information, the troops swung into action in an unmarked car and trailed them to the rendezvous for the collection.

“The kidnappers who are believed to be operating along Kaduna-Abuja road, however fled towards Zaria in a Honda car with registration number AJ 183 ABJ AJ 183 ABJ when they realized that they were being trailed.

“Consequently, the pursuing troops alerted the police stationed in Soba. In the process fleeing, the kidnappers overran the police checkpoints at Soba and Maigana and proceeded to Zaria where they were finally apprehended.

He said “The troops recovered Honda Accord car, one mobile telephone handset, 4 MTN, 1 Airtel Subscribers identified module (SIM) cards, 1 micro SD card, a national identity card, an INEC voters registration card, and a Miyetti Allah cattle Breeders’ Association of Nigeria Identity Card.

Also recovered were a United Bank for Africa and Keystone Bank Debit Cards, cash sum of Twelve Thousand, Seven Hundred and Ten Naira (N12,710.00k) and a Notebook containing several names, addresses and telephone numbers of kidnap victims families and relations.

Usman added that “The suspects are currently being investigated.”

Also last night said three women attempted to force their way into troops location but were exposed by vigilantes who suspected their dressing and the nature of the hijab they were wearing which contained IEDS.

The statement signed by Col Sani Usman said, “Today, Thursday 6th October 2016, at about 12.25pm, 3 female suicide bombers attempted to attack a military location at Gwoza, Gwoza Local Government Area, Borno State.

“The suicide bombers who came through Pulka axis were sighted by members of vigilante from a distance and alerted the troops about the impending catastrophe.

“The very observant vigilante also noted that the women looked suspicious; walking awkwardly with bulging hijab and distinct from other female farmers.

“When the suicide bombers noticed that they were being observed, they hurriedly ran towards troops aiming to detonate it on them.

The troops neutralized 2 of the female suicide bombers, while the other ran back into the bush but was pursued.

“Unfortunately, a soldier sustained injuries due to the impact of the explosion.

He said “The wounded soldier is currently receiving treatment at a military medical centre and he is in stable condition.”