http://www.dailytrust.com.ng/news/general/gunmen-abduct-vice-principal-teacher-4-students-in-lagos/165669.html
1831
18
Gunmen yesterday at the Igbonla Senior and Junior Model College, on the outskirts of Epe, and abducted the vice-principal, the head teacher and four students of the school in an operation that security agents confided to City News confounded them.

And in Niger State, ten gunmen stormed Rijau Vocational School in Rijau local government area and kidnapped two under-aged female students. Sarah Danjuma and Martha Daniel were abducted from the school premises about 3:20am on Wednesday, the state police command confirmed.

In the Lagos incident, two of the abducted students were said to have escaped from the grip of their captors. The kidnap came barely a week after a family of six was killed by suspected gunmen in the Ikorodu area.The kidnappers, numbering about seven, had invaded the school premises about 8am when students were having a special session at their hall.Witnesses said the gunmen stormed the school premises through the river in three speed boats. They then smashed part of the fence of the college, stormed the school assembly ground and snatched the six persons.Among those abducted was Lukman Oyerinde, said to be the elder brother of the slain Olaitan Oyerinde, a former aide to Governor Adam Oshiomhole.The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Fatai Owoseni, who confirmed the report, said four persons were abducted by the gunmen. “Yes, this morning, gunmen stormed the Lagos State Igbonla Junior and Senior Model College, Epe, and abducted two teachers and four students. The suspects escaped through the Ogbere river. Two of the students have since been rescued by our men,” he said.The Lagos State Deputy Governor, Dr. Idiat Oluranti Adebule, later yesterday visited the school. A statement signed by Habib Aruna, the Chief Press Secretary to Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, said Dr. Adebule pleaded with parents and families of the victims to cooperate with government and security agencies in ensuring prompt rescue of the victims.The Niger State Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Bala Elkana said the two abducted students of the Rijau Vocational School were rescued by men of the command after more than two hours of gun battle with the gunmen. He said the school vice principal whose name he did not disclose for security reason, placed distress calls to the police when the gunmen stormed the school through a broken fence.“On receipt of the complaint, the command got in touch with its anti-kidnapping team in the area who gave the hoodlum a hot chase. After a long gun duel between the kidnappers and the police, the girls were rescued unhurt, while the kidnappers escaped into the bush with bullet wounds,” he explained.