http://m.firstpost.com/india/monika-ghurde-murder-undressed-her-to-film-and-blackmail-later-says-accused-3045014.html
182
18
Rajkumar Singh, who was arrested in a Bengaluru hotel on 9 October for allegedly murdering celebrity perfumer Monika Ghurde at her flat in Goa, told the investigators that he had undressed Ghurde to film her nude in order to blackmail Ghurde later. Believing that Ghurde was unconscious, the accused went to the kitchen and ate two boiled eggs. Rajkumar later fled the crime scene when he noticed that she was dead, reported The Times of India. However, a senior officer involved in the investigation told The Times of India that they did not know whether the accused had actually filmed Ghurde. Ghurde was found strangled to death in her three-bedroom rented apartment in Sangolda village in Goa. The 39-year-old's naked body was recovered on 6 October but investigation revealed she was killed on 5 October. According to the report, Goa police is questioning Rajkumar to ascertain whether he had sexually assaulted Ghurde. The accused had worked as a security guard in a building complex where Ghurde stayed earlier, and was fired from the job following complaints by several residents. "The accused was arrested from Bengaluru, where he had checked into a hotel after committing the crime," Deputy Inspector General of Police Vimal Gupta told PTI. The fashion designer-turned-perfumer had been living alone in the flat since July 2015. Gupta said police had lodged a murder case after her estranged husband Bharat Ramamrutam filed a complaint with Saligao Police Station. Rajkumar had stolen Ghurde's two ATM cards and mobile phone, and transactions made through them helped the police to track him, he said. The 22 years-old accused had also clicked a selfie in front of a shop in Bengaluru and posted it on Facebook, reported Deccan Chronicle. Police procured CCTV footage from the ATM booth and identified him with the help of a photo available with them in a tenant verification form submitted to Porvorim Police. Ghurde had studied photography at Mumbai's JJ Institute of Applied Arts. She had set up her perfume-making company Mo Lab, and was also researching perfumery. She had collaborated with eminent designers, such as Jean Francois Lesage, Christian Louboutin and Anand Kabra. With inputs form PTI