http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3614030/Australia-pulled-climate-report-government-tourism-fears.html
1384
13
Australia is world's only inhabited country with no mention in the report

References to Australia were scrapped from a UN report on climate change and World Heritage sites after objections from Canberra, in a move scientists and activists called 'extremely disturbing'.

The study, jointly published Thursday by UNESCO, the Union of Concerned Scientists and the United Nations Environmental Programme, previously featured a chapter on the Great Barrier Reef, Kakadu and Tasmanian forests.

But the Environment Department stepped in to remove those sections over concerns it would have a negative impact on the country's tourism industry.

Australia is the only inhabited country in the world with no mention in the report, which did not reference any other countries removed.

Australia's Great Barrier Reef, which is suffering its worst bleaching in recorded history, has been removed from a climate change report

The department told AFP it 'indicated' to UNESCO that 'it did not support any of Australia's World Heritage properties being included' in the study.

'The department was concerned that the framing of the report confused two issues -- the World Heritage status of the sites and risks arising from climate change and tourism,' it said in a statement.

'Recent experience in Australia had shown that negative commentary about the status of World Heritage properties impacted on tourism.'

The reef, which contributes an estimated $6 billion annually to the economy, mainly through tourism, last year narrowly avoided being put on the World Heritage endangered list.

The site is currently in the throes of its worst bleaching in recorded history at the hands of climate change and weather phenomena.

About 93 per cent of the reefs along the 2,300 kilometre site have suffered bleaching, with scientists fearing coral on the the northern coast of the reef might have died.

The coral reef system contributes an estimated AUS$6.0 billion annually to the economy, mainly through tourism

References to Australia were scrapped from a UN report on climate change and World Heritage sites after objections from Canberra

Will Steffen, one of the scientific reviewers of the axed section on the reef, said he was stunned.

'It beggars belief that Australia would not even rate a mention,' he said.

'To argue that this is about tourism doesn't make much sense. No other country requested sections to be removed from the report.

'Information is the currency of democracy, and the idea that government officials would exert pressure to censor scientific information on our greatest natural treasure is extremely disturbing,' he added.

Greenpeace called it 'jaw-dropping news'.

'Especially while the Great Barrier Reef is suffering from its worst-ever coral bleaching,' said Greenpeace Australia reef campaigner Shani Tager.

'They're trying to pull wool over Australians' eyes about serious threats to the future of our greatest natural wonder.'

Cracked earth is visible as a result of declining water levels at Wivenhoe Dam: the Environment Department stepped in to remove all mention of Australia from the report

Scientists and activists called censorship of report 'extremely disturbing'

The world's biggest coral reef ecosystem is under pressure from not only climate change, but farming run-off, development and the coral-eating crown-of-thorns starfish.

Last month scientists warned large parts of it would be dead within 20 years if climate change was not tackled.

It profiles the impacts of climate change on major tourism drawcards including the Statue of Liberty, Venice and Stonehenge, listing 31 vulnerable sites in 29 countries.

In introductory remarks to the study, UNESCO's World Heritage Centre director Mechtild Rossler said 'globally, we need to better understand, monitor and address climate change threats to World Heritage sites'.