http://nation.com.pk/islamabad/14-Oct-2016/court-orders-arrest-of-imran-qadri
186
18
islamabad - Special Anti-Terrorism Court Islamabad yesterday maintained arrest warrants of Chairman Pakistan Tehrik-e-Insaf Imran Khan and Pakistan Awami Tehrik Chief Tahir-ul-Qadri and others for torturing policemen.



ATC Judge Sohail Ikram resumed hearing of a case against Chairman PTI Imran Khan, Pakistan Awami Tehreek chief Tahir-ul-Qadri and others for torturing SSP Asmatullah Junejo and other policemen during the sit-in of these parties in 2014 and directed the police to produce them by arresting before the court on the next hearing.



The court expressed its anger for not arresting the nominated accused in the case and directed SSP Islamabad to arrest the accused.



After issuing the aforementioned directions, the court deferred the hearing till November 28 for further proceedings in this matter.



Earlier, the ATC judge had issued their non-bailable arrest warrants for their continuous absence from court proceedings in a case registered against them.



SSP Asmat Junejo and other policemen had sustained injuries when a crowd of protesters participating in the sit-in protest by PTI and PAT, beat them up.



The protesters used sticks and batons when they thrashed SSP Asmat Junejo and others.



A case was registered under sections of anti-terrorism, assault on a uniformed officer and interference in the government’s operations against Imran Khan and Dr Tahir-ul-Qadri, who were leading the protest movement against the Sharif-led government.



In this matter, Imran Khan and Tahir Ul Qadri had already been declared absconders by ATC for not appearing before the court.



Meanwhile, Special Anti-Terrorism Court Islamabad yesterday maintained non-bailable arrest warrants of former military ruler Pervez Musharraf in judges’ detention case.



ATC judge Sohail Ikram conducted hearing of the case and maintained Musharraf’s non-bailable arrest warrants by dismissing his application seeking exemption from appearing before the court.



During the hearing, a junior lawyer of former president’s counsel appeared before the court and informed it that the senior lawyer is out of the country.

Therefore, he requested the court to adjourn the proceedings.



During the hearing, police officials also submitted a report regarding the execution report about the arrest warrants of Musharraf.



They told the court that they raided the house of Musharraf in Chak Shahzad where it was told that the accused is currently living abroad.



Later, the court adjourned the hearing till November 22 and directed the police to produce the accused before the court by arresting him on the next hearing.



Previously, the court had expressed its anger by terming the fresh medical certificate of former President General (Retd) Pervez Musharraf as ‘fake.

’

Musharraf’s counsel Akhtar Shah had submitted a medical report of the former military dictator and requested the ATC judge to grant his client temporary exemption from appearing in court in judges’ detention case.

He had contended that his client was ready to appear in the court provided his doctors allow him and the government provides him security.

The judge, however, remarked that the former dictator has not appeared before the court for the last two years.



The current legal proceedings were initiated against Musharraf for detaining over 60 judges, including the former chief justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, after his 2007 proclamation of a state of emergency across the country.



The former military ruler is facing terrorism charges in the case, which was based on a first information report (FIR) registered against him on August 11, 2009 by the Secretariat police for detaining over 60 judges, including former CJP.



In June 2013 the court indicted Musharraf in the judges’ detention case.

According to the charge sheet, the military ruler had imposed a state of emergency and detained the judges.



Fifteen lawyers had already recorded their statements as witnesses against Musharraf.

