http://www.philstar.com:8080/cebu-news/2016/10/15/1633795/wall-collapse-injures-nine-liloan
1822
18
CEBU, Philippines - Nine construction workers were injured after the wall of a hardware store outlet that they were building collapsed on them in Barangay Cotcot, Liloan, Cebu yesterday afternoon.

Police Officer 3 Neil Ryan Talle of Liloan Police Station said the incident happened past 2 p.m.

“Gitukod pa ni siya nga warehouse-type nga building dinhi sa Liloan,” he said.

He identified the victims as Luel Baticao, Bong Cuba, Alex Rosal Lazaro Capa Jr., Joel Proconato, Melvin Proconato, Rene Baredo, Condito Baolan and Antonio Cuenza, who were all rushed to the Mendero Medical Center in neighboring Consolacion town.

“Based sa among investigation, sa siyam kabuok nga construction workers, lima ang severely injured. Ang uban, minor injuries ra,” Talle said, adding that they learned of the incident after received a call from one of the store’s staff.

“Nanawag ang taga-Citi Hardware nihangyo og assistance sa police ug ambulansya. Gipa-responde sad nato ang mga bumbero para sa ilahang fire truck, police rescue ug responders sa municipal health office,” Talle added.

Freeman ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch:

He said the wall was high but he could not yet give its exact height when it fell. He said initial investigation showed the foundation of the structure could be weak and that yesterday’s rain could have eroded the base and contributed to the cause of the incident.

“Allegedly, basin basa ang semento tungod sa uwan ganina ug ang foundation, dili lig-on. Atoa pa ni siya gipaubos og investigation,” Talle said.

A similar incident happened in Barangay Labangon, Cebu City last August 21, resulting to the death of a 22-year-old construction worker after the retaining wall of a condominium project also gave way.

The victim, a resident of Canlumpao, Toledo City was declared dead on arrival at the Cebu City Medical Center.

Last March 6, a construction worker also died and two others were injured when one of the steel hangar trusses at the Mactan Benito Ebuen Air Base in Lapu-Lapu City collapsed.

Meanwhile, Liloan Mayor Christina Frasco said they will investigate to determine the lapses and possible liabilities of the building owner and the contractor.

“The LGU will be conducting a thorough investigation on this matter with all parties involved, including the contractor and its principal,” she said in a text message.

All operations at the construction site will be halted pending an investigation to be conducted by the Municipal Engineering Office, she said. She said a work stoppage order will be issued against the commercial project. — with Kristine B. Quintas (FREEMAN)