http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/deaths-innocent-syrian-children-blamed-9008389
1821
18
Smoke and rubble rise after Syrian oppositions blow up a tunnel under Syrian Regime forces' headquarters

The blame for killing hundreds of Syrian children has been laid at the door of Vladimir Putin – as the world pondered the question: How do we stop him?

Russia’s tough-guy leader was condemned for having innocent blood on his hands as Moscow-backed airstrikes pounded civilian areas, destroying hospitals, bakeries and other non-military targets.

Last month the UN slammed both Russia and Syria ’s own ruling regime after 96 children died and 226 were injured in a single week in the hellish wrecked city of Aleppo.

Senior UNICEF official Justin Forsyth said after two hospitals were blitzed: “The children of Aleppo are trapped in a living nightmare.”

And in August a report said Russia had killed 2,700 Syrian civilians in 11 months - more than Islamic State did in three years.

Getty A Syrian man carries a dead body of a child out of a demolished building

Getty Vladimir Putin is being blamed for the deaths

Video loading Watch next Watch this video again Watch Next Click to play Tap to play The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

However as concern grows, there is still no consensus on how to end the slaughter.

Tthe former head of the British Army warned direct military action against Syria would spark all-out war with Russia.

General Sir David Richards, who raised fears of a humanitarian crisis in 2012 with David Cameron , backed calls to escort opposition groups from Aleppo to end the violence.

Getty A Syrian man carries the body of an infant retrieved from under the rubble

But he said calls for military action against Assad risked sparking a full-scale conflict with Putin as well. Speaking exclusively to the Sunday Mirror, he said: “If you attack the Syrians, then you are probably going to kill Russians. Are we prepared to go to war with Russia?

“If we are, and prepared to accept all possible consequences, then that is one route. But that means an even worse war, with even more people killed.”

Mais, a two-month-old baby in the Aleppo University Hospital

This week the UN’s top diplomat Staffan de Mistura offered to personally escort hundreds of al-Qaeda fighters out of Aleppo if that would end hostilities.

General Richards said removing fighters might be the only way to end the crisis.

He said: “There’s an old cry, ‘If you go to war do it properly or don’t do it at all’. Are we ready for that?

Video loading Watch next Watch this video again Watch Next Click to play Tap to play The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

"If not, while I would not wish to see it, from a purely humanitarian perspective there is a case for allowing Assad to re-occupy Aleppo, ending the humanitarian crisis there.”

Col Richard Kemp, a former commander of British troops in Afghanistan, said the West had missed its chance to act in Syria.

He said: “We should have ­intervened on the ground but now it’s difficult to see how we can get involved or do anything that will not lead to conflict with Russia.”

#RallyForAleppo

The world’s biggest charities are to march on Downing Street at noon on Saturday to demand Government intervention over the slaughter of children in Syria. And you can join in too. Show your interest and invite your friends here - or search Rally for Aleppo on Facebook.