http://kisschattanooga.iheart.com/onair/what-we-talked-about-54636/bethanys-headline-recap-september-29th-2016-15154313/
182
18
Two students and a teacher were injured after a 14-year-old boy opened fire at Townville Elementary in South Carolina yesterday afternoon. Before traveling to the school, the boy allegedly shot and killed his father and called his grandparents. An unarmed volunteer firefighter was able to take down the shooter. Officials say the alleged gunman has no connection to the school and are still trying to figure out what motivated the shooting.

Source: wyff4.com

California is lifting the state’s 10-year statute of limitations on rape and sexual assault charges, due in part to the women who said Bill Cosby raped them. Multiple Cosby accusers used social media, email and phone calls to encourage California Governor Jerry Brown to sign the bill.

Source: abc10.com

Police in a San Diego suburb say a black man killed by police was pointing a vape smoking device at officers at the time of the shooting. Alfred Olango was shot and killed as police responded to calls about someone walking in traffic. A mental health professional assigned to police was at another call, so officers responded by themselves. As one officer fired a taser at Olango, the other fired his gun within two minutes of responding to the scene. Neither was wearing a body camera. FBI will investigate the shooting, as well as local police and the San Diego County district attorney's office.

Source: nbcnews.com

Congress has overridden President Barack Obama's veto of a bill allowing 9-11 victims families to sue the Saudi government. This is the first veto override during President Obama's tenure. Obama had warned that the bill could worsen America's position among other nations and open U.S. companies, troops and officials to possible lawsuits. He said it could also strain relations with Saudi Arabia, a key U.S. ally in the Middle East. (The override wasn’t even a close call – the roll was 348-to-77 in the House and 97-to-1 in the Senate.) The Saudi government has denied any involvement in the September 11th attacks.

Source: nytimes.com

Tim Tebow had his Instructional League debut yesterday and hit a home run on the first pitch he saw.

Source: bleacherreport.com

Today is National Coffee Day! Businesses around the nation are celebrating by giving coffee away for free or giving you a cool deal.

To celebrate 66 years in business, you can get a cup of coffee at Dunkin Donuts for just 66 cents.

At Krispy Kreme, not only will you get a free cup of coffee but you'll also score a free original glazed doughnut!

If you snap a selfie with a Bruegger’s coffee cup and post the photo on Twitter, Instagram or Facebook by Sept. 29, you will be entered to win one of five Bruegger’s Bottomless Mugs, which retail at over $185.

Source: usatoday.com