http://nation.com.pk/lahore/29-Sep-2016/woman-kills-cousin-over-harassment
181
18
LAHORE - A young woman yesterday stabbed to death her cousin at a house in Mughalpura area, police said, before calling the police and courting her arrest.



Investigators identified the victim as Arshad Ali, a resident of the same locality and said to be a cousin of the killer.

The body was moved to the morgue for an autopsy.



The woman, named by police as Riffat Bibi, told the investigators that she had stabbed her cousin to death because he tried to harass her sexually.



Investigators say the man visited her apartment late Tuesday night and made a sexual advance when she took out a knife and stabbed him repeatedly.

“The man died on the spot because of excessive bleeding,” a police source quoted Riffat as telling the investigators.

The police also seized a sharp-edge weapon from the crime scene.



Initial investigations revealed the woman, in her early 30s, was living alone in the apartment since her mother’s death few years ago.

The victim frequently used to visit her cousin’s house.



The Mughalpura police yesterday filed a murder case against the lady and launched the probe into the killing.

A police investigator told The Nation that they were also investigating whether the woman acted alone or she committed homicide with the help of somebody.

Further investigations were underway.



Suicide before marriage

A 22-year-old woman yesterday ended her life by hanging herself with the ceiling fan at her house in Baghbanpura.

Police said the woman took the extreme step just a few weeks before her scheduled marriage.

Police handed over the body to the family without autopsy.

The woman was identified as Sadia Bibi, a resident of College Road.



The family told the police that Sadia went to her bedroom on the upper portion, locked it from inside, and committed suicide.

A police official said the body was hanging from the ceiling fan as they reached the spot.

Police and her relatives broke open the door and shifted her to a hospital where she was pronounced as brought dead.



Two found dead

Police discovered two dead bodies from different parts of the metropolis.

A 35-year-old man identified as Imran Bhatti was found dead in Gowalmandi police area.

Similarly, a 45-year-old man identified as Allah Rakha was recovered dead from Defense police area.

The police removed both the bodies to the morgue for autopsy.



Investigators said both the men died under mysterious circumstances.



The police were investigating both the deaths.

