http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/hate-preachers-bodyguard-beat-up-9098972
180
18
Michael Coe will be jailed for attacking the young couple as they cuddled in east London

An Islamic convert who acted as a bodyguard for hate preacher Anjem Choudary is facing jail for knocking out a schoolboy in a ‘Muslim Patrol’ style attack.

Michael Coe, 35, attacked the 16-year-old victim when he saw him cuddling his girlfriend on the pavement near Upton Park station in East Ham.

The 6ft 1in bully, who accompanied Choudary at inflammatory protests, demanded to know if they were Muslims before calling the girl a ‘whore’.

He then lifted the boy by the collar and threw him into a wall, causing him to black out, and attacked passing schoolteacher Boutho Siwela when he tried to intervene.

Coe became a Muslim in prison after meeting al-Qaeda terrorist Dhiren Barot, who was jailed for life for plotting to detonate limousines packed with gas canisters.

He was met at the prison gates by Mohammed Mizanur Rahman, 33 - a key figure in banned terror group Al-Muhajiroun - who was convicted of drumming up support for Isis, alongside Choudary, last month.

Getty Michael Coe acted as bodyguard for hate preacher Anjem Choudary after converting to Islam in prison

While awaiting trial, Choudary breached his bail conditions by meeting Coe, but was let off after telling the judge his sister Nabila ran a beauty parlour with Coe’s wife.

Choudary was jailed for five and a half years last month and Coe is facing a lengthy sentence at Southwark crown court after a jury convicted him of assault and battery.

Judge Michael Gledhill QC said he is prepared to sentence Coe in his absence today after hearing the Muslim convert has refused to leave his cell at maximum security Belmarsh Prison.

The judge said: ‘This man was dangerous in the sense that he poses a significant, substantial risk to members of the public of substantial violence.

‘I base that conclusion on the evidence I heard at the trial of his behaviour on the day in question, 15 April, and his appalling record of violence, particularly the offence that bears striking similarity to this one, namely policing, or attempting to police Muslim people to behave in the way that he thinks is appropriate and I expressed these views clearly when I adjourned sentence.

‘One of the reasons he poses a risk is because of his rather extreme views about how Muslims should behave,’ he said.

When Coe’s defence lawyer asked for a further adjournment so they could instruct an expert to prepare a report ‘on the point of de-radicalisation’ the judge remarked: ‘How is a report about de-radicalisation going to assist sentencing him for assault and battery on the 15 April?’

He added: ‘I have no confidence that this man will co-operate with any expert, I don’t believe that a report dealing with de-radicalisation is going to assist me because I’m sentencing for what this man has done, not what his state of mind will be in the future.’

Judge Gledhill said: ‘I have not heard from the security people here why he hasn’t agreed to leave his cell.’

‘I propose to sentence him in his absence today, him having deliberately chosen not to attend court.’

Earlier the judge said: ‘Having seen them cuddling Coe took offence because he thought that they were Muslims and to his way of thinking Islam prohibits such behaviour.

‘He stopped to reprimand them, acting as a self-appointed enforcer.

Getty Coe, who's spent 12 of the last 19 years behind bars, refused to leave his cell at HMP Belmarsh to hear his sentence

’Coe has a history of violent offences and has spent around 12 of the last 19 years behind bars.

He was brought up in Hackney, east London by his English mother and Jamaican father. He became a Muslim in prison in 2007 after Barot gave him the Dawah - the invitation to Islam.

After serving his sentence for firing a shotgun at police in 2006, Coe - whose Islamic name is Mikaeel Ibrahim - was met by convicted extremists Rahman and Abdul Muhid, another close associate of Choudary.

Coe was pictured with Choudary at inflammatory protests calling for Britain to be ruled by Islamic Sharia law.

He appeared in a Salafi Media video praising Osama Bin Laden and has since accepted in court having strong views about Islam and the West.

Coe stood trial at the Old Bailey last year accused of travelling to Syria to join Islamic State fighters after he was caught smuggling himself out of the country in the back of a lorry.

He was acquitted of the terror charge but convicted of possessing false identity documents after telling jurors he was trying to get to see his second wife in Sweden because he had only met her once.

The court heard he was found carrying £4,360 in cash along with a book called Fortress of the Muslim containing a receipt for a pair of size 11 boots.

Also in his bag were black fingerless gloves with knuckle protectors and a series of charging devices.

In November last year, Choudary was locked up for two weeks and hauled in front of a judge for breaching his bail by meeting Coe in the shadows of West Ham FC’s old stadium.

Coe’s latest trial heard how he lifted the boy up by the scruff of his neck before slamming him into the wall and knocking him unconscious.

The attack took place after Coe had pulled over and hassled the boy and his girlfriend who were cuddling on Wilson Road in East Ham.

Coe asked the pair if they were Muslim and proceeded to attack the young male while his girlfriend screamed in fear.

Nearby engineering teacher Boutho Siwela photographed Coe’s number plate so he wouldn’t get away with the attack but the 5ft 2in motorcyclist was also picked up and thrown to the ground by the assailant.

Prosecutor Jonathan Polnay described the attack as ‘unpleasant bullying with religious overtones’ as Coe ‘unjustifiably’ lost his temper with the teenager.

He claimed to have acted in self defence - despite being significantly taller and heavier than the teen.

When asked why he tried to grab the camera from Mr Siwela, Coe replied: ‘Well obviously I didn’t want to get caught, innit.’

In 1997, when aged just 16, Coe was convicted of wounding which he told the court was due to him punching a white man who called him a ‘black bastard’.

Getty Coe has previously been acquitted of trying to join Islamic State murderers in Syria

Two years later he was convicted of a common assault and using threatening or abusive words or behaviour.

Coe put one of his previous victims in a coma due to the brute force of his attack.

Since then he has been convicted of robbery, violent disorder and possessing crack cocaine at Notting Hill Carnival and other instances of using threatening or abusive words or behaviour.

In May 2013 he pleaded guilty to a religiously aggravated harassment which he was fined.

Mr Polnay said: ‘On that occasion an 18-year-old girl was with some friends finishing school when the defendant shouted and beckoned her over.

‘When she reached him he became aggressive and said ‘why are you talking to them, it goes against your religion’.’

Coe shouted ‘you are going towards their path’ at the girl and saying ‘they are Kuffar scum’ before calling her a slut, jurors heard.

He also told her: ‘At the end of the day it’s between you and Allah - you should change.’

Coe, of Devenish Road, Greenwich, was convicted of assault occasioning actual bodily harm and battery.

He will be sentenced later.