http://www.vanguardngr.com/2016/08/salesgirl-brutalised-n400-fried-meat/
1821
18
By Onozure Dania

Lagos—The police, yesterday, charged a fairly-used clothes dealer, Sharon Okafor, 22, before a Lagos Magistrate’s Court, Igbosere, for allegedly assaulting and cutting a salesgirl in the face with ceramic plates.

The incident was said to have occurred during a disagreement over payment for drinks and N400 fried meat.

Okafor, who resides in Ilasan Village, Lekki, is facing a count charge of assault preferred against him by the police.

The prosecutor, Sergeant Oladejo Balogun, told the court that the incident occurred on July 25 at a bar opposite Lekki Phase One in Eti-Osa Local Government Area of the state. He said Okafor unlawfully assaulted the complainant with a plate and injured her on the face.

According to him, the defendant went to the bar in the company of a man, simply identified as Kingsley, and the duo ordered for drinks and N400 fried meat.

Balogun said the defendant and Kingsley were served by the salesgirl, one Comfort Jonah. He said when Jonah demanded for payment as it was near her closing time, apart from the fact that she had other duties to attend to, Okafor insisted that it was her companion that would pay and he would do so when they were done.

Balogun said: “Jonah tried to take back the drinks, but Okafor threw a plate at her and she retaliated. About 15 men then pounced on her and beat her up till she fainted.”

Okafor, who was docked before Magistrate H. O. Amos, pleaded not guilty to the charge.

According to the prosecutor, the offence was punishable under Section 244(a) of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2011.

The counsel to the defendant, Darnell Abbe, urged the court to admit her to bail in the most liberal terms.

Balogun objected to the bail on the ground of the severity of the complainant’s injury.

“The complainant was almost stabbed in the eye by the defendant,” he added.

In a bench ruling, Magistrate Amos granted Okafor N100,000 bail with two sureties in like sum. He adjourned the case till September 9 for mention.