http://www.philstar.com/cebu-news/2016/10/12/1632842/official-claims-police-now-free-politics
180
18
CEBU, Philippines - An official of the Philippine National Police yesterday said that the police organization is now free from any political intervention, especially in the campaign against illegal drugs.

Chief Superintendent Dennis Siervo, chief of the PNP Human Rights Affairs Office, said that they are now free to conduct police operations without having to deal with politicians.

“Sa una kung naa mi madakpan, naa lang dayon manawag nga mga politiko. Karon, wa nay politiko manawag. We can freely do our job without any political intervention,” Siervo said during the forum hosted by the Association of Government Information Officers (AGIO) and Philippine Information Agency (PIA)-7.

Siervo assured everyone that the police will always respect human rights in the ongoing war against illegal drugs.

“We do not want to kill them. It is not the business of policemen to kill but respect human rights. Rest assured, we will only use reasonable and necessary force to stop the aggression of the suspects,” said Siervo.

Chief Inspector Dexter Calacar, information officer of Police Regional Office-7, said that since July 1 up to 6 a.m. yesterday, there were already 116 drug users killed during police operations in Central Visayas while 138 persons were killed by unknown assailants.

Freeman ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch:

Siervo said some unscrupulous people may have taken advantage of the police war on drugs by resorting to vigilante killings to put the blame on the law enforcers.

“We are not condoning this kind of killings perpetuated by unknown assailants,” said Siervo.

Superintendent Arnel Banzon, deputy chief for Regional Operations and Plans Division, said there were already 69,816 drug users 5,638 pushers in the region who surrendered from July 1 to September 30.

Banzon said there were 1,147 high value targets and 1,184 users arrested in the same period. According to Banzon, there are estimated 3.7 million drug users and pushers nationwide.

“This illegal drug problem is like we are in a Yolanda situation. All sectors were overwhelmed,” said Father Carmelo Diola, chairman of Dilaab Foundation Inc.

Diola said that what the church is doing is to help surrenderers change their ways and their lives through “Tokhang ngadto sa Labang” program, an approach that is holistic, multi-sectoral and structured. (FREEMAN)