http://www.whio.com/news/crime--law/toxicology-report-terence-crutcher-had-pcp-system-during-deadly-confrontation-with-tulsa-police/Hwpwx7lVmBkdFj3QHdt2II/
180
18
Updated: Friday, November 04, 2016 @ 5:26 PM

By: Breaking News Staff

A Kettering man, who along with another suspect, was accused of raping a Beavercreek woman in 2015, was found not guilty in Montgomery County Common Pleas Court Friday.

Neal D. Patrick, 25, and co-defendant Christopher J. Cardilino, 25, also of Kettering, were charged with one count each of rape of a substantially impaired victim in July 2015. The alleged crime occurred in Kettering, officials said.

But on Friday, Judge Richard Skelton found Patrick not guilty. Cardilino’s trial is scheduled for February, the Montgomery County Prosecutor’s office said.

During Patrick’s trial, witnesses testified that the victim was was able to drive a car, engage in normal conversation and conduct herself appropriately, Patrick’s attorneys said in a press release.

“The serious nature of this charge was great concern to us, but the court’s verdict validates our confidence in our legal system,” Attorney Brad Baldwin said.

The Montgomery County Prosecutor’s office declined to comment because Cardilino’s case is pending.

Patrick and Cardilino were arrested nearly four months after the alleged crime, and were booked into the Montgomery County Jail on $100,000 cash or surety bond. According to the criminal complaint, the men provided “misleading information during an investigation.” Cardilino eventually admitted to having sex with the victim, and Patrick admitted to receiving oral sex from her, according to the criminal complaint.

Cardilino resigned from his caseworker position at Developmental Disabilities of Clark County on Sept. 25, 2015, according department superintendent Jennifer Rousculp-Miller. She said Cardilino was still in his probationary period for the position and the resignation did not have to do with the rape investigation, of which Rousculp-Miller said she was unaware. Cardilino would have worked mostly in an office with a mentor, and contact with clients, the majority of whom would have been men, were in a family setting, according to Rousculp-Miller.