http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3817927/The-powerful-storm-DECADE-Hurricane-Matthew-weakens-slightly-set-break-records-bring-chaos-swirls-Caribbean-Haiti-Jamaica-150mph-winds.html
130
13
Jamaicans and Haitians are also stocking up on food and water before the Category 4 is due to hit

at detention center Guantanamo Bay in Cuba have been evacuated

'Florida still needs to remain alert,' according to a warning by the National Hurricane Center

But it is expected to hit parts of Jamaica, Haiti and Cuba - and could potentially hit Florida next week

will make on the Eastern seaboard

Forecasters will know more Monday about the impact the

Hurricane Matthew is the most powerful system to hit the Atlantic since Hurricane Felix in 2007

Forecasters said it's still powerful enough to wreck homes along the Caribbean Sea coastal areas

Hurricane Matthew was downgraded from a Category 5 to a Category 4 storm on Saturday evening

The most powerful storm to hit the Atlantic in almost a decade has sparked panic across the Caribbean - as forecasters scramble to predict where the hurricane will hit next.

Hurricane Matthew, which has just been downgraded from a Category 5, has been sweeping across the Caribbean towards Haiti, Jamaica and Cuba, where residents frantically stocked up on emergency supplies and authorities urged people to evacuate threatened areas.

Experts say there is a chance it could hit Florida and the East Coast by next week - but warn that it is too early to tell.

With winds of 150 mph (240 kph), the high-end Category 4 is the strongest hurricane to hit the area since the devastating Hurricane Felix in 2007 which caused severe damage along the East Coast.

Authorities warn it could trigger devastation in parts of Haiti where it's expected to pass across or very close to the southwestern tip late Monday before reaching Cuba, according to the U.S. National Hurricane Center in Miami.

'Wherever that center passes close to would see the worst winds and that's what's projected to happen for the western tip of Haiti,' said John Cangilosi, a hurricane specialist at the center. 'There is a big concern for rains there and also a big concern for storm surge.'

Matthew is expected to reach Cuba by Tuesday - sparking a mass evacuation of the Naval base Guantanamo Bay in Cuba, where 61 terrorism suspects are currently being held.

Hundreds of non-essential personnel, including about 700 family members of military personnel, have now been evacuated while the remaining inhabitants of the 5,500 people who live at the base have been told to take shelter.

Scroll down for video

Florida is poised for record-breaking Hurricane Matthew which may be the strongest for a decade as forecasters race to work out volatile storm's path (left, forecasters predict the storm will pass by Florida altogether but will impact along the East Coast, while on the right, experts say it could hit the state next week while it will largely bypass the rest of the U.S.)

Hurricane Matthew, which has just been downgraded from a Category 5, has been sweeping across the Caribbean toward Haiti, Jamaica and Cuba, where residents frantically stocked up on emergency supplies and authorities urged people to evacuate threatened areas

Hurricane Matthew poses a danger to Jamaica, parts of Hispañola, Cuba, and the Bahamas. It could hit the United States sometime next week

Matthew weakened slightly early Saturday to a Category 4 storm. This NOAA satellite image taken on Saturday shows the well-defined storm continuing to slowly move westward at about 7mph across the Caribbean

The tropical cyclone had been expected to hit the eastern tip of Jamaica at the tail end of the weekend, before shifting eastward and striking the southwestern tip of Haiti on Monday.

But the storm appears to have shift routes and as of 2pm (EDT) it wascentered about 335 miles (535 kilometers) south-southwest of Port-au-Prince, Haiti, traveling north-northwest at 5 mph (7 kph).

Forecasters are now saying the hurricane could miss Jamaica altogether,

'The center of the system is looking more likely that it will pass to the east of Jamaica but it won't miss it by that much, so they are still going to see impacts,' Cangilosi said. 'The impacts are maybe going to be a little lower there than they would be in Haiti and eastern Cuba.'

A hurricane watch was posted for the southeastern Bahamas and Turks and Caicos Islands. A tropical storm warning was in effect for parts of the Dominican Republic, where authorities began mandatory evacuations of areas at risk for flooding.

Meanwhile, Haitians have been preparing for the worst as forecasters warn Matthew could bring as much as 25 inches of rain, causing flooding and even dangerous landslides, reminiscent of Felix in 2007.

A hurricane warning has been issued for the impoverished country, which shares the island of Hispaniola with the Dominican Republic, where authorities have begun evacuating residents.

The government of Haiti opened 1,300 emergency shelters across the country, enough to hold up to 340,000 people.

'The shelters are open but I don't believe we have anyone inside them just yet,' said Joseph Edgard Celestin, a spokesman for the civil protection agency.

Teams of civil protection officials were walking the streets of Les Cayes urging residents to secure their homes, prepare emergency kits and warn their neighbors, while the authorities have broadcast warnings on television, radio and social media.

Matthew is one of the most powerful Atlantic hurricanes in recent history and briefly reached the top classification, Category 5, before weakening slightly to a high-end Category 4 storm with winds of 150 mph (240 kph)

Yet, many Haitians appeared unaware of the looming hurricane.

'No, I haven't heard anything about a bad storm coming here,' farmer Jean-Bernard Mede said with a concerned expression as he took a break from walking three cows along a dirt track outside the town of Leogane. 'I'll do what I can for my animals and my family.'

Forecasters said the slow-moving Matthew was expected to dump 15 to 25 inches (40 to 60 centimeters) of rain over southern Haiti, with a few places getting as much as 40 inches (100 centimeters).

Deforestation has greatly increased the potential for devastating floods and landslides on Haiti, and combined with the ramshackle structure of many homes and building, this means that Matthew could deal a vicious blow to the country.

The storm and predicted flash flooding could even affect the country's October 9 re-run presidential elections which are being held one year after last year's presidential vote was hit with accusations of fraud that sent Haiti spinning into a political crisis.

After passing Jamaica and Haiti, Matthew is expected to reach Cuba on Tuesday, potentially making a direct hit on the U.S. Navy base at Guantanamo Bay.

The forecast track would also carry Matthew into the Bahamas, with an outside chance of a brush with Florida, at some point next week.

'Florida still needs to remain alert,' according to the National Hurricane Center.

'It's too early to rule out what impacts, if any, would occur in the United States and Florida,' said Dennis Feltgen, a spokesman at the Hurricane Center.

In Haiti, civil protection officials broadcast warnings of a coming storm surge and big waves, saying the country would be 'highly threatened' from the approaching system, which is expected to start affecting Haiti and Jamaica Sunday night.

They urged families to prepare emergency food and water kits.

Emergency management authorities banned boating, particularly along the impoverished country's southern coastline.

The National Hurricane Center called it the strongest Atlantic hurricane since Felix in 2007

Pictured is a forecast from the Weather Channel for rainfall through Wednesday

After passing Jamaica and Haiti, Matthew is expected to reach Cuba on Tuesday, potentially making a direct hit on the U.S. Navy base at Guantanamo Bay

If Matthew did veer toward the US, it could hit Florida sometime in the middle of next week

This map shows 'Chance of winds reaching or exceeding 39 mph,' the Weather Channel says

In Jamaica, there is also a hurricane warning and flooding has temporarily closed the road linking the capital to its airport.

Carl Ferguson, head of the marine police, said people were starting to heed calls to relocate from small islands and areas near rural waterways.

Residents of the capital, Kingston, went to crowded supermarkets to buy bottled water, canned food and batteries.

In the coastal town of Port Royal, officials were urging residents to seek refuge in government shelters once they open up on Sunday.

Many Jamaicans also began stocking up for the emergency.

At the Azan Super Centre, a supermarket in Kingston, shoppers were scooping up flashlights and gas lamps and other key supplies along with food. The kerosene was already sold out.

'It has been chaos from the morning,' owner Melain Azan said.

Shopper Nardia Powell said she was stocking up because she learned a hard lesson when she was unprepared for Hurricane Ivan in 2004, as were many others.

'So, I just want to be on the safe side, right?' she said.

A worker nails a board to use on a storefront window as protection against Hurricane Matthew in Kingston on Saturday

A boat is pictured being taken out of the water in Kingston, Jamaica, on Saturday, where fisherman have been warned to keep out of the water ahead of the approaching storm

Shoppers are pictured at a Portmore, Jamaica, store stocking up on Saturday in preparation for the hurricane

Jamaicans are accustomed to intense storms, but Hurricane Matthew looked particularly threatening.

At its peak, it was more powerful than Hurricane Gilbert, which made landfall on the island in September 1988 and was the most destructive storm in the country's modern history.

As of 11pm EDT (0300 GMT), the storm was centered about 340 miles (550 kilometers) south-southwest of Port-au-Prince, Haiti. It was traveling north-northwest at 7 mph (11 kph).

Earlier, Matthew skimmed past the northern tip of South America where there were reports of at least two deaths.

But authorities in the area overall breathed a sigh of relief as damage appeared minimal despite flooding in towns along the La Guajira peninsula of Colombia.

Some officials were even grateful for the rain after a multi-year drought in the poverty-stricken area.

'Families that evacuated are returning to their homes,' said La Guajira Gov. Jorge Velez.

'The dikes and wells filled up, the earth is moist, and this benefits agriculture in an area where it hasn't rained for five years, benefiting the community.'

Jamaican authorities said they were taking all possible precautions.

'The government is on high alert,' Robert Morgan, director of communications at the prime minister's office, said.

'We hope that the hurricane does not hit us, but if it does hit us, we are trying our very best to ensure that we are in the best possible place,' he said.

Disaster coordinators, police and troops are on standby and shelters are being opened across the island, Morgan said.

A worker nails a board to use on a storefront window as protection against hurricane Matthew in Kingston on Saturday

People are pictured taking care of last minute shopping as Hurricane Matthew approaches in Kingston Saturday

As Matthew skimmed past the northern tip of South America there were reports of heavy flooding and at least one death — the second attributed to the storm.

Authorities said at least 18 houses were damaged along the La Guajira peninsula of Colombia, which has been suffering from a multi-year drought.

They said a 67-year-old man was swept away to his death by a flash flood in an area where it had not rained for four years.

ONE OF THE BIGGEST EVER 'SPRITES' SIGHTED OVER PUERTO RICO One of the largest sprite bursts to ever be caught on camera was witnessed in these incredible pictures. The incredible phenomenon was seen over Puerto Rico earlier Sunday. The rarely seen cold plasma phenomena occurred as Hurricane Matthew, the strongest hurricane in the Atlantic Ocean since 2007, builds over the area. Sprites are large-scale electrical discharges that occur high above thunderstorm clouds, or cumulonimbus, giving rise to a quite varied range of visual shapes flickering in the night sky. They are triggered by the discharges of positive lightning between an underlying thundercloud and the ground. The rarely seen cold plasma phenomena occurred as Hurricane Matthew, the strongest hurricane in the Atlantic Ocean since 2007, builds over the area Sprites are large-scale electrical discharges that occur high above thunderstorm clouds, or cumulonimbus, giving rise to a quite varied range of visual shapes flickering in the night sky One of the largest sprite bursts to ever be caught on camera was witnessed in these incredible pictures

Local TV broadcast images of cars and tree trunks surging though flooded streets in coastal areas.

Colombian authorities closed access to beaches and urged residents living near the ocean to move inland in preparation for storm surges that they said would be most intense on Saturday.

There was also concern that heavy rain across much of the country could dampen turnout for Sunday's nationwide referendum on a historic peace accord between the government and leftist rebels.

Matthew also caused a second death when it entered the Caribbean on Wednesday, with officials in St. Vincent reporting a 16-year-old boy was crushed by a boulder as he tried to clear a blocked drain.

Jamaicans flocked to the supermarkets on Friday to take care of last minute shopping pending the arrival of Hurricane Matthew in Kingston

A man carries empty water containers while chatting with another man outside a supermarket, as they brace for the arrival of Hurricane Matthew in Kingston, Jamaica

Meteorologists said if Matthew moves swiftly, it has a greater chance of causing significant impact from rain, wind and flooding along much of the Atlantic coast

Dennis Feltgen, a meteorologist and spokesman for the hurricane center in Miami, said storm force winds and rain will arrive well before the center of the storm.

Jamaicans 'basically have daylight today, they have tonight and they have daylight tomorrow to take care of what needs to be done,' he said.

Despite sunny weather and only a few scattered clouds, many Kingstonians started stocking up on water and food on Friday.

Tenaj Lewis, 41, a doctor who was stocking up with groceries in Kingston on Friday, said Jamaica was much better-prepared for hurricanes than when Gilbert struck.

'The country literally shut down for months,' she said.

Jamaica was hard hit by Hurricane Gilbert, which made landfall on the island in September 1988 and was the most destructive storm in the country's modern history.

The last major hurricane in the region was Sandy, in 2012.

Since then, hurricanes have brought a few days of power outages but have not been nearly as destructive and many Jamaicans were unflustered.

Matthew could be the most powerful storm to cross the island since records began, meteorologist Eric Holthaus said on Twitter.

'Hurricane Matthew could rival or possibly exceed Gilbert if the core of the strongest winds does actually move over Jamaica,' Feltgen said.

'There is no certainty of that at this point.'

Forecasters said rainfall totals could reach 10 to 15 inches with isolated maximum amounts of 25 inches in Jamaica and southwestern Haiti.

A LOOK AT DEADLY HURRICANE FELIX THAT SLAMMED INTO NIGARGUA'S MISIKITO COAST IN 2007 On September 4, 2007, Hurricane Felix slammed into Nicaragua's Miskito Coast, as a record-setting Category 5 storm, killing 130 people and causing an estimated $720 million of damage. The storm, with 160mph winds, whipped metal rooftops through the air like razors, forcing thousands to flee and destroyed many homes. Felix struck on the same day Hurricane Henriette roared into Mexico's Baja California peninsula. People wade through the water in Tegucigalpa's flooded market, on September 6, 2007 in Honduras Partially destroyed homes sit in La Pajara, northern Nicaragua on September 6, 2007. Hurricane Felix made landfall near the area on September 4 It also came only two weeks after Hurricane Dean struck Mexico further up the Caribbean coast, killing 27 people. At the time, never before in recorded hurricane history had two Category 5 Atlantic hurricanes made landfall in the same year. Felix was formed from a tropical wave that departed from the coast of Africa on August 24, 2007, according to NOAA. The tropical wave moved westward across the tropical Atlantic for several days while unleashing a persistent area of disorganized cloudiness and showers. An aerial view shows the flooded area of the community of Potrerillos in Honduras A Miskito man pours flour for cooking in his home village, destroyed by Hurricane Felix Aerial picture taken on September, 6, 2007 shows the village of Sandy Bay, Nicaragua, after the passage of the eye of hurricane Felix It eventually became a tropical storm on September 1, 2007 while 60 miles north of Barbados, before quickly sweeping over Grenada and across the southern part of the Caribbean. The tropical storm was upgraded to a hurricane on September 2 before making landfall near Punta Gorda, Nicaragua two days later. In Nicaragua's remote northeast corner ahead of Felix's landfall, more than 12,000 people had been evacuated. In neighboring Honduras, about 5,000 residents and 3,000 tourists were evacuated from offshore islands just before Felix hit. Native Miskito children stand amid the rubble of a destroyed church in the Miskito village of Dakura After making landfall, it quickly was downgraded to a tropical storm but not without causing severe damage to homes and buildings from winds and storm surge. Both Nicaragua and Honduras also had additional damage from rain-induced flooding. Felix, for many, revived memories of Hurricane Mitch, which killed more than 10,000 people in Central America in 1998, many of them in Honduras. Over the years, there have been several other deadly hurricanes that have made landfall as Category 5 storms, leaving death and destruction in their wake. IN THE PACIFIC October 23, 2015: Hurricane Patricia's eye came ashore about 55 miles west-northwest of Manzanillo In 1959: An unnamed storm struck near Manzanillo, killing about 1,800 people. IN THE ATLANTIC September 4, 2007: Hurricane Felix slammed into Nicaragua's Mosquito Coast, reportedly killing 130 people August 21, 2007: Hurricane Dean hit near Majahual, Mexico, killing at least 13 people August 24, 1992: Hurricane Andrew came ashore in Miami, killing 65 people September 14, 1988: Hurricane Gilbert slammed into Cancun, Mexico, killing 327 people August 29, 1979: Hurricane David barreled into Leeward Island of Dominica, killing more than 2,000 people September 2, 1977: Hurricane Anita plowed into Tamaulipas, Mexico, killing at least 10 people September 9, 1971: Hurricane Edith made landfall in Nicaragua, killing 30 people August 17, 1969: Hurricane Camille hit near Biloxi, Mississippi, killing 256 people September 28, 1955: Hurricane Janet raced into Chetumal, Mexico, killing more than 600 people September 16, 1937: an unnamed Category 5 hurricane blew into the Bahamas, killing 51 people September 3, 1935: Hurricane Labor Day churned into the Florida Keys, killing 408 people September 13, 1928: Hurricane San Felipe-Okeechobee pummeled Puerto Rico, killing 2,166 people

Kingston, in the southeastern corner of Jamaica, is expected to experience flooding.

In Cuba, which has a strong record of protecting residents when storms strike, people in the eastern coastal city of Santiago de Cuba said they were following the news closely, although the sky was still blue.

'We don't know yet exactly where it will go, so we're still waiting to see,' Marieta Gomez, owner of Hostal Marieta, said.

'We Cubans are well prepared.'

'It's too early to rule out what impacts, if any, would occur in the United States and Florida,' Feltgen said.

The only question is to what extent – if any – the hurricane depreciates in strength.

'If Matthew moves swiftly, it has a greater chance of causing significant impact from rain, wind and flooding along much of the Atlantic coast,' AccuWeather meteorologist Bernie Rayno told AccuWeather.com.

'On the other hand, if Matthew's forward speed slows, it could still have significant impact on the Atlantic coast, but in a much smaller area, when compared to a fast-moving hurricane,' Rayno said.

Forecasters will have a much clearer idea of just how powerful Matthew remains after it completes its path near Cuba.

The storm will likely lose strength once it hits the Communist island, but it could regain strength once out to sea again.

Analysts will also be able to chart its path and predict where precisely it will make landfall.

If one were a betting man, forecasters say that Floridians should brace themselves by Wednesday.

'While a track into the western Caribbean and then the Gulf of Mexico is still possible, that outcome appears unlikely at this time,' said AccuWeather meteorologist Steve Travis.