http://www.dailymail.co.uk/indiahome/indianews/article-3789804/JNU-spotlight-women-make-two-separate-rape-allegations.html
1821
18
One of them alleges rape over 10 years on the pretext of marriage

Both women said they had been in relationships with the accused men

Two complaints of rape have been reported in as many days at the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) in Delhi.

In the first case, a student was arrested for allegedly raping a woman in her 20s on the pretext of marriage.

The accused was arrested on Wednesday after the victim, who is believed to have been in a relationship with her alleged attacker for 10 years, recorded her statement at Vasant Kunj police station.

The Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) has been at the centre of controversy in recent months

'Despite repeated requests from the victim, [the accused] was not marrying her, and hence she approached the police,' a police officer said.

In another case, a woman alleged that she was raped and an FIR has been registered against the accused.

A Delhi court remanded the accused in the first alleged rape to 14 days of judicial custody after the case was registered under Section 376 (rape) of IPC.

In her complaint, the victim alleged that the accused had been raping her for 10 years, assuring her that he would marry her.

The victim, who said she met the accused through a mutual friend, said that she decided to approach the police after she came to know that he was having affairs with four other girls.

An ABVP during a protest after student union activist Anmol Ratan at the JNU in Delhi was accused of raping a fellow student inside his hostel room after spiking her drink

On September 13, she decided to approach police. Police took her to AIIMS where she underwent a medical test, which, they said, confirmed sexual assault and a case of rape was lodged.

In the second case the woman was also understood to be in a relationship with the man. In her police complaint, she alleged that he raped her and also extorted money.

Earlier this week, the girl had leveled the allegations in a Facebook post that went viral and also put up posters on the JNU campus narrating her ordeal.

'The zero FIR was registered because the complainant mentioned the place of the offence as Bhopal. The complaint will be transferred to Bhopal police who will probe the charges,' said a police officer.

Last month, an activist of All India Students’ Association (AISA), Anmol Ratan, was booked on charge of rape. He had allegedly raped a girl after luring her to his hostel room on the pretext of loaning her a movie.