https://au.news.yahoo.com/a/32865630/philippines-president-duterte-dubbed-a-psychopath/
181
18
Philippines president Rodrigo Duterte has been labelled a “psychopath”, just days after being compared to Adolf Hitler for his plans to slaughter “millions of people”.

Stop Video Replay Philippines' Duterte tells rights groups to 'go to hell' UP NEXT

VIDEO Philippines' Duterte tells rights groups to 'go to hell'

Actress Agot Isidro claimed Duterte, dubbed ‘The Punisher’, has left the people of the Philippines to starve as he continued on his anti-drug crusade.

“I know a psychiatrist. Get yourself checked. You’re not bipolar, you’re a psychopath,” Ms Isidro said in a post that has more than 45,000 ‘Likes’.

Philippines president Rodrigo Duterte. Source: 7News

“No one’s trying to fight you. As a matter of fact, you’re the one who’s picking a fight.

“The country where you are elected as President by 16 million out of 100+ million is Third World. You talk as if the Philippines is a superpower. Excuse me, we don’t want to go hungry. If you want, you do it yourself. Leave us out of it. So many people have nothing to eat, and yet you’ll starve us even further.”

More than 3600 people have already been killed in the Philippines since Duterte came into power in May.

He was elected on the back of promises to kill those involved in importing or selling illegal drugs in the Philippines.

Duterte had said he intended to kill millions of people in the Philippines to achieve his mission of eradicating illegal drugs.

"Duterte was referencing to his 'willingness to kill' three million criminal drug dealers - to save the future of the next generation and the country," presidential spokesperson Ernesto Abella said.

RELATED:

Adelaide man wrongly accused of selling drugs in Philippines

Duterte stands defiant over 'slaughter' calls

UN steps up war of words with Duterte

'''Bodies pile up in Philippines streets

'''

"There are three million drug addicts (in the Philippines). I'd be happy to slaughter them," Duterte said.

"At least if Germany had Hitler, the Philippines would have," he said, then paused.

"But you know, my victims, I would like to be (sic) all criminals to finish the problem of my country and save the next generation from perdition."