https://au.news.yahoo.com/world/a/32868993/sara-connor-david-taylor-to-be-charged-over-bali-officers-death-prosecutors-confirm/
181
18
An Australian woman accused of violently bludgeoning a policeman to death on a popular Indonesian tourist strip will be charged with murder, Bali prosecutors have confirmed.

Stop Video Replay Australian mother to face charges over Bali death UP NEXT

VIDEO Australian mother to face charges over Bali death. Source: 7news Australian mother to face charges over Bali death

Sara Connor and her British boyfriend David Taylor face three separate charges of murder, torture and assault leading to the death of policeman Wayan Sudarsa, who was fatally bashed on a beach in Bali in August.

Police have finalised their case against the pair, meaning their trial can proceed.

"We are convinced that we can prove it in court," Chief of General Crime at Denpasar District Attorney, Ketut Maha Agung told reporters on Tuesday.

Australian woman Sara Connor. Source: AAP

Sara Connor and David Taylor. Source: 7News

Ketut Maha Agung, a senior legal official at the district attorney's office in Denpasar, also confirmed the pair's trial could begin, possibly as early as next month.

If found guilty of murder, they face a maximum sentence of 15 years behind bars. The separate charges of assault leading to death and torture carry maximum sentences of 12 years and seven years, respectively.

Victim Wayan Sudarsa and the co-accused David Taylor and Sara Connor.

Taylor, a DJ, told police he struck Sudarsa with a pair of binoculars during a late-night altercation on Kuta Beach, a tourist hotspot on Bali island.

The Briton believed the policeman had attacked Connor, his girlfriend from New South Wales, and tried to steal her bag.

Police say he flew into a rage and hit the policeman repeatedly over the head with a beer bottle, although his defence lawyer says he was first pushed by the officer.

A re-enactment of the murder scene. Source: AAP

Mr Taylor at a re-enactment of the murder scene. Source: AAP

The pair fled the scene, but were later tracked down after witnesses reported the incident to police.

Bali, a pocket of Hinduism in Muslim-majority Indonesia, is a popular tourist destination known for its tropical climate and palm-fringed beaches.

Petty crime is common but murders are rare.