http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/725715/calais-jungle-sex-attack-gang-rape
1821
18
The brutal attack took place on Tuesday morning when five men set upon Ethiopian refugee, who cannot be named for legal reasons. The young woman was examined by a forensic doctor but had difficulty communicating because she only speaks an Ethiopian dialect. She is currently still staying in Calais until a translator can be found, said a source.

SWNS A young woman was gang-raped in Calais on Tuesday

It came as prosecutors said three suspects involved in the knifepoint rape of a 38-year-old Afghan interpreter around the squalid shantytown last week could have been people smugglers.

SWNS The rape followed another sexual assault last week

They may now have escaped to Paris, along with hundreds of others displaced by the destruction of the Jungle, which at one point had up to 10,000 residents. It became notorious for a range of crimes during the past few years, including rapes and other sexual assaults. A source close to both investigations said: “The latest rapes are both being investigated as a matter of priority.

Riot police begin destroying migrant camps in Paris Mon, October 31, 2016 Overnight fires broke out in many parts of the camp destroying shacks and makeshift shops along the camps main street. Many migrants have left by coach to be relocated at centres across France. Play slideshow 1 of 43

“In both cases those responsible are likely to be a long way from Calais by now, but everything is being done to try and find them. “[The interpreter] has produced a description of the three men who attacked her, but it is unreliable so will not be released as a portrait.

SWNS Calais camp has now been destroyed by French authorities and accidental fires

“The men wore hoods, and there is very little chance of finding them in Calais now. It is thought that many of the traffickers have headed for Paris in the short term.” Massive fires were lit across the Jungle on Wednesday, hastening the end of the camp, as more than 4000 migrants were bused to centres all over France.

WENN Calais is now almost empties after thousands of migrants were brought to different French camps

Today a few hundred stragglers were left in the still-smouldering wreckage, as riot police wearing full body armour patrolled. There have been migrant camps in the Calais area for at least 20 years, as thousands of residents used them as a springboard to reach the UK, where they claimed asylum or disappeared into the black economy.