http://www.whio.com/news/sicsa-hosting-charity-paint-event-tonight/dtPKQ0j6HqphaZCdFtFggJ/
180
18
Updated: Friday, November 04, 2016 @ 5:29 PM

By: Amelia Robinson

The last drink you had at a longtime Dayton bar is the last drink you'll ever have there.

Bingers Bar vacated 142 E. Third St. in downtown Dayton on or around Oct. 31, according to Austin Sprenkel of The Ellway Group, the developer of the Fire Block District.

In 2015, The Ellway Group owners Elliot Katz and Winfield “Scott” Gibson began working to redevelop the collection of buildings in the district, which is bordered by Second Street, St. Clair Street, Fourth Street and Jefferson Street. Their property includes the building that once housed Bingers.

>> PHOTOS: A look inside downtown Dayton's Fire Block District building



Sprenkel said Bingers owner Janet Yeazel was asked to move her bar due to ongoing problems with and complaints about the bar's customers.

He added that there was suspected drug activity outside of the bar, and Bingers patrons were often seen urinating on surrounding buildings.

Sprenkel said the bar did not have a lease.

"We had to ask them to leave as part of our efforts to clean up the neighborhood and make it nice," Sprenkel said. "We can't have the nonsense."

Dayton police spokeswoman Cara Zinski Neace said that eight reports in the last two years have listed Bingers address.

Five of those reports were linked to the bar. They include a fight, an overdose and three disorderly conduct complaints.

Bingers Bar has closed [...]

Ellway's property includes the Dickey building at 124 E. Third St., the Huffman Block Building at 111 to 129 E. Third Street, and the Elks Building.

Attempts to reach Yeazel by phone were not successful. Messages were left at several numbers linked to Yeazel.

The bar's sign has been removed, its phone number has been changed, and the new number is unlisted.

Sprenkel said The Ellway Group hopes to replace Bingers with "a neighborhood bar" with reasonably priced beverages.

People have expressed interest in the Bingers spot, he said.

If no tenant is found, Sprenkel said a concept being developed by the company will be put there.

>> MORE: Investors intend to renew Fire Block District in Dayton

The Ellway Group's plans include roughly 75 housing units in the Huffman block building, ground floor retail space, an upscale restaurant operated by The Idea Collective of Oklahoma City near Century Bar’s planned speakeasy, office space, and a penthouse level clubhouse for residents with a patio overlooking the city.

Gibson said the space at 117 E. Third St. will be rented as a "DIY spot" for band performances, art shows and other events in the short term.