https://in.news.yahoo.com/top-asian-news-4-31-m-gmt-043157212.html
130
13
NEW YORK (AP) — Yes, you heard that right. Samsung is asking owners of its fire-prone Galaxy Note 7 to do something crazy: "power down and stop using the device." In an age when smartphones have become extensions of ourselves, the last thing we look at before falling asleep and the first thing we grab in the morning, this is all but unthinkable, even at the dinner table, even on the toilet. Risking a battery fire might seem like a small price to pay for obsessively checking your latest Instagram "likes," catching up on email, Skyping your grandkids across the country, getting directions, confirming your travel itinerary, reading the news, searching for a dinner recipe, hailing a ride and so on.

CANBERRA, Australia (AP) — Singapore's prime minister visited Australia on Wednesday to upgrade a free-trade agreement and to finalize a deal that will double the capacity of Singaporean military training facilities in the Australian tropics. Singaporean Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong told the Australian Parliament that China was the biggest trading partner of both nations, which were also allies of the United States. "We both see the United States as a benign force playing a major role in fostering peace and stability in Asia," Lees said. Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull said both countries shared a common strategic outlook. He made an apparent veiled criticism of China's increasingly aggressive territorial claims in the South China Sea and its refusal to abide by international law to resolve competing claims.

KABUL, Afghanistan (AP) — Militants attacked a Shiite shrine in Kabul on Tuesday, killing at least 14 people and deepening fears of a spasm of violence against Afghanistan's Shiites as they mark one of their most important religious days later this week. A gunman stormed Sakhi Shrine, the largest Shiite shrine in the capital, killing 13 civilians and one policeman and wounding 26 people, according to Interior Ministry spokesman Sediq Sediqqi. He said the attacker was shot dead by police. The Shiites were gathering on the eve of Ashoura, when the followers mark the martyrdom of the Prophet Muhammad's grandson with candlelight vigils and mass public flagellations.

WASHINGTON (AP) — The Supreme Court raised serious doubts Tuesday about a $399 million judgment against smartphone maker Samsung for illegally copying parts of the patented design of Apple's iPhone. Justices hearing arguments in the long-running dispute seemed troubled that Samsung was ordered to pay all the profits it earned from 11 phone models, even though the features at issue are just a tiny part of the devices. But some justices struggled over how exactly a jury should be told to compute damages if the case is sent back to a lower court. "If I were a juror, I wouldn't know what to do," said Justice Anthony Kennedy.

GENEVA (AP) — A group of advocacy organizations has awarded its annual prize for human rights defenders to imprisoned Chinese Muslim minority economics professor Ilham Tohti, shining new attention on a case that has brought strong international condemnation. The Martin Ennals Award is bestowed by 10 rights groups including Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch. A ceremony honoring the award, which was founded in 1994, was taking place in Geneva on Tuesday with his daughter in attendance. Tohti, 46, was given a life sentence on charges of separatism in September 2014 after a two-day trial. A member of the Turkic Muslim Uighur ethnic group, he taught at Beijing's Minzu University and was an outspoken critic of Beijing's ethnic policies in the far western region of Xinjiang.

CANBERRA, Australia (AP) — Extremist groups could have the capabilities to launch damaging cyberattacks on Australia within three years, a government report on the nation's cybersecurity said on Wednesday. Such groups seeking to harm Western interests currently pose "a low cyberthreat," despite demonstrating a savvy understanding of social media and exploiting the internet for propaganda purposes, the Australian Cybersecurity Center report on current threats said. While their cybercapabilities were "rudimentary" and capable of compromising only poorly secured, internet-connected services, they showed signs of improving significantly in the near future, the report said. "It is unlikely terrorists will be able to compromise a secure network and generate a significant disruptive or destructive effect for at least two or three years," the report said.

Read More