http://www.independent.co.uk/news/people/nadia-murad-isis-islamic-state-daesh-yazidi-vaclav-havel-human-rights-prize-a7355201.html
180
18
Nadia Murad has been presented with the Vaclav Havel Human Rights Prize for her work to protect her Yazidi people from Isis.

Ms Murad escaped sex slavery at the hands of Isis to become the first survivor of captivity to be appointed a United Nations Goodwill Ambassador.

The 23-year-old Yazidi was captured by the jihadi group in 2014 and subjected to sexual and physical abuse after being sold several times as a slave to a man with a wife and daughter.

She revealed that Isis militants forced captives to pray and then raped them.

Iraq crisis: Yazidi nightmare on Mount Sinjar







15 show all Iraq crisis: Yazidi nightmare on Mount Sinjar



























1/15 Iraq crisis Displaced people from the minority Yazidi sect, fleeing violence from forces loyal to the Isis in Sinjar town, walk towards the Syrian border, on the outskirts of Sinjar mountain, near the Syrian border town of Elierbeh of Al-Hasakah Governorate

2/15 Iraq crisis Displaced people from the minority Yazidi sect, fleeing violence from forces loyal to the Isis in Sinjar town, walk towards the Syrian border, on the outskirts of Sinjar mountain, near the Syrian border town of Elierbeh of Al-Hasakah Governorate

3/15 Iraq crisis Displaced Iraqis from the Yazidi community settle at a camp at Derike, Syria. In the camps here, Iraqi refugees have new heroes: Syrian Kurdish fighters who battled militants to carve an escape route to tens of thousands trapped on a mountaintop

4/15 Iraq crisis A pilot based at RAF Marham entering a Tornado GR4 prior to taking off for the reconnaissance mission over Iraq. Several RAF Tornado jets set off from RAF Marham in Norfolk this afternoon to travel to a "pre-position", from where they will fly to northern Iraq to provide improved surveillance of the situation on the ground. The jets, fitted with Litening III targeting and surveillance pods, will be able to fly over the crisis area to provide intelligence and help with the delivery of humanitarian aid

5/15 Iraq crisis A British Royal Air Force (RAF) Tornado GR4 aircraft equipped with the Litening III pod from RAF Marham, eastern England, on their arrival at RAF Akrotiri Cyprus for their reconnaissance mission over Iraq

6/15 Iraq crisis Aid inside a Royal Air Force (RAF) Hercules C130 J aircraft before being airdropped to civilians in Iraq

7/15 Iraq crisis A Royal Air Force (RAF) Hercules C130 J military transport plane at RAF Akrotiri in Cyprus. Britain made a third round of airdrops of supplies to aid refugees stranded on a mountain in northern Iraq, officials said, as Tornado fighters arrived at an RAF base in Cyprus preparing to provide surveillance support for the humanitarian effort

8/15 Iraq crisis Royal Air Force (RAF) Tornado GR4 aircraft, flown in from Britain, stand on the tarmac at RAF Akrotiri in Cyprus

9/15 Iraq crisis A displaced man helps a woman, both from the minority Yazidi sect fleeing violence from forces loyal to the Isis in Sinjar town, as they make their way towards the Syrian border, on the outskirts of Sinjar mountain, near the Syrian border town of Elierbeh of Al-Hasakah Governorate

10/15 Iraq crisis Iraqis including Turkmen, Shabaks, Kurds, Yezidis and Christians, fleeing from assaults of army groups led by Isis, take shelter at Bahirka Camp in Arbil

11/15 Iraq crisis Displaced Iraqis from the Yazidi community look for clothes to wear among items provided by a charity organization at the Nowruz camp in Derike, Syria

12/15 Iraq crisis Displaced Iraqis from the Yazidi community gather for food at the Nowruz camp in Derike, Syria

13/15 Iraq crisis Displaced Iraqis from the Yazidi community gather for food at the Nowruz camp in Derike, Syria

14/15 Iraq crisis Syrian Kurdish Peshmerga fighters take a sick Iraqi Yazidi woman to the clinic at Nowruz camp in Derike, Syria

15/15 Iraq crisis Sick displaced Iraqis from the Yazidi community wait for treatment at a clinic at Nowruz camp in Derike, Syria

When she first tried to escape, she was handed to six militants, who gang-raped her until she passed out.

After three months in captivitivy, she eventually managed to flee.

She was one of 5,000 women abducted by fighters as the group swept through territories in Iraq.

In addition to those enslaved, thousands of men and boys were slaughtered by Isis, including Ms Murad's six brothers.

Honored to be 2016 Václav Havel Prize Winner. I dedicate this Recognition to 3400 Yazidi women/children in captivity & victims of terror. pic.twitter.com/vJ4R8u3sgn — Nadia Murad (@NadiaMuradBasee) October 10, 2016

The award, named after the former Czech president, honours outstanding action in defence of human rights and comes with a €60,000 (£54,000) prize.

Speaking after receiving the award in Strasbourg on Monday, Ms Murad called for a special court to judge crimes committed by Isis militants.

She has argued the 2014 attack on the Yazidi people should be recognised as a genocide.