http://indianexpress.com/article/india/india-news-india/pampore-gunbattle-still-on-security-forces-use-drones-to-track-militants-india-pakistan-kashmir-3077708/
180
18
Security personnel outside the Entrepreneur Development Institute (EDI) in Pampore on Tuesday. Source: Shuaib Masoodi Security personnel outside the Entrepreneur Development Institute (EDI) in Pampore on Tuesday. Source: Shuaib Masoodi

Having suffered casualties in the last operation against militants holed up inside the Etrepreneurship Development Institute (EDI) in February as the the militants took advantage of their positions, the security forces on Tuesday used various techniques to pinpoint location of the militants inside the seven-storey complex in Pampore and said the operation could extend another day.

“This is a huge complex (and) this time we won’t take any chances,” an Army officer privy to the operation details said.

WATCH | Pakistani troops violate ceasefire in Jammu Kashmir’s Rajouri District

Meanwhile, with the security forces busy in the operation outside the EDI complex, on Srinagar-Jammu National Highway, a group of militants hurled a grenade at a joint patrol of the police and CRPF at Shopian town in south Kashmir. Ten people, including eight civilians, were injured in the incident.

The standoff at the EDI complex began in the early hours of Monday, and one soldier was injured on the first day.

Sources said there was no firing from inside all day today but the militants opened fire towards evening. “They (militants) are maintaining deliberate silence and trying to conserve ammunition,” a senior Army officer said. “There could be two or three militants hiding in the fifth floor of the building.

WATCH VIDEO: Surgical Strikes: No Need To Show Evidence Of PoK Strikes, Says Government Sources

He said the Army and police are not in a hurry and have learnt lessons from past experience. “We will prepare for the final assault after assessing all details. We are moving cautiously, as we don’t know whether the building is booby-trapped,’’ he said.

The encounter in February had lasted more than 48 hours after the militants killed two CRPF men and injured 12 others during an attack on the national highway. The Army had lost three Para commandos, including a captain, in that encounter.

Besides Rashtriya Rifles (Army’s counter-insurgency force) and the Special Operation Group of the state police, Army Para (special forces) commandos are involved in the ongoing operation. Through Monday night, the security personnel fired rockets, smoke shells and engaged in heavy firing at the building, while the CRPF and police personnel cordoned off the area.

Through the day on Tuesday, surveillance drones were used to track positions of militants in the complex. On Tuesday morning, security forces conducting the operation also interacted with civilian engineers who had designed the EDI building to get information on the 60-room concrete complex. “The operation will continue and men on ground will deal with the situation as per requirement,’’ Deputy Inspector General of Police (south Kashmir) Nitish Kumar said.

The EDI complex is less than 5 km from the Badami Bagh cantonment, headquarters of the Army XV Corps in Srinagar.