http://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-3831767/Zilda-Williams-flaunts-plump-rump-hint-boob-dons-g-string-bikini-racy-sunbaking-snap.html
1821
18
She is on track to becoming Australia's very own Kim Kardashian, thanks to her penchant for flaunting her curvaceous caboose on social media.

And The Bachelor's Zilda Williams, 33, made sure to capture the attention of her 44.8K Instagram fans by sharing another derriere-baring snap on Tuesday as she hit the beach for a sunbaking session.

Posing with her rear squarely in the frame, the reality TV starlet showcased her bronzed complexion as she lay chest-dow on the sand while soaking up the soaring climes and peering at the Sydney Harbour bridge in the background.

Scroll down for video

Junk in the trunk! The Bachelor's Zilda Williams, 33, made sure to capture the attention of her 44.8K Instagram fans by sharing another derriere-baring snap on Tuesday as she hit the beach for a sunbaking session

Placed in front of her on the sand was an aerosol can of Sun Bum tanning spray, which she cleverly spruiked in the caption by writing: 'Beach bum life.'

Fans were quick to comment on Zilda's formidable curves, with one writing underneath the saucy snap: 'The most perfect beach bum I've ever seen.'

The post comes after Zilda made headlines for sharing a series of party-going snaps with NRL legend 'Big Willie' during a tequila-fueled night out at Sydney's trendy Bungalow 8 bar.

She's not shy! Zilda is on track to becoming Australia's very own Kim Kardashian, thanks to her penchant for flaunting her curvaceous caboose on social media

What's going on? The post comes after Zilda made headlines for sharing a series of party-going snaps with NRL legend 'Big Willie' during a tequila-fueled night out at Sydney's trendy Bungalow 8 bar

The Bachelor babe documented her antics with the 36-year-old ex-Bulldogs player on Snapchat and Instagram, before deleting all traces of the wild night out from social media the next morning.

In a Snapchat video, the Christchurch-born babe exclaims 'Guess who I found?' before turning the camera to reveal fellow Kiwi Big Willie, who is standing next to a busty brunette as he playfully gives Zilda's iPhone the middle finger.

In a following shot, Big Willie has his arm affectionately wrapped around Zilda while a caption reads '10 margaritas.'

'Guess who I found?' Zilda tells the camera as she turns around to reveal a cheeky Big Willie

Zilda, who shows off her famous E cup assets in a plunging grey dress, is seen holding an alcoholic beverage as she gets close to the controversial athlete.

Despite the nature of the video and photos, Zilda insisted that were was nothing going on between the pair when contacted by Daily Mail Australia for comment.

'I was at an event with my girlfriends and we bumped into Willie in the VIP area,' she revealed.

'We all had a drink and a dance together as a group, then I left. That's it!'

When asked why she deleted evidence of the allegedly wholesome night out from social media, the aspiring actress explained that she didn't want anybody to get the 'wrong impression' about what went down.