http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/goa/Monikas-murderer-says-he-wanted-to-film-her-nude-to-blackmail-later/articleshow/54787081.cms
181
18
PANAJI: Perfume researcher Monika Ghurde's alleged murderer Rajkumar Singh told police that he undressed Ghurde to film her in the nude after smothering her with the intention of later blackmailing her into silence, Goa police said on Monday. Police said that they are still questioning him to ascertain if he assaulted her sexually.Singh, 21, a native of Bathinda, Punjab, was a former watchman at Sapana Raj Valley at Sangolda , where Ghurde's body was found naked with the hands tied to the bed. Singh was arrested on Sunday afternoon from Bengaluru and has been brought to Goa by road on a transit warrant.A senior police officer told TOI that Singh, during interrogation by Goa police at Bengaluru, said that after smothering Ghurde, he thought Ghurde was unconscious. Singh then undressed Ghurde. "We still don't know whether Singh had actually filmed Ghurde."North Goa SP Umesh Gaonkar told TOI that it is suspected that the accused entered the complex by jumping over the rear fence and added he was well versed with the society's layout.He then went into the kitchen, boiled two eggs and snacked and waited awhile thinking she would wake up. But as Ghurde was still 'unconscious', he checked on her and realized that she had died, police said, and added that he then fled the spot.Singh told police that he entered the complex one day before the incident and stayed on the terrace. He went without a meal for one whole day and was hungry. So he cooked the eggs.Police said that the suspect would be produced before the judicial magistrate first class, Mapusa on Tuesday to seek police custody for further interrogation.Goa police had zeroed in on Singh after they obtained CCTV footage of him withdrawing money from an ATM in Porvorim using Ghurde's ATM card.Singh traveled from Goa to Mangaluru by train and stayed there for a day before boarding a bus to Bengaluru, the police added.Singh had told police that he entered Ghurde's flat on Wednesday with the intention of looting her. He entered the flat, flashed the knife and threatened that she keep quiet. He later tied Ghurde's hands to the bed at knifepoint and took her ATM card. He then demanded to know the PIN. Ghurde gave him her the PIN.While the postmortem on Saturday revealed that Ghurde died due to smothering, the forensics department reserved its opinion on alleged sexual assault. The postmortem report said marks were found on her private parts. A serological examination will be conducted at Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL), Hyderabad.