http://classic.iol.co.za/news/crime-courts/the-anonymous-life-of-fezekile-kuzwayo-1.2078423
182
18
INDEPENDENT MEDIA Khwezi, real name Fezekile Ntsukela Kuzwayo, arrives at the high court in Joburg on the first day of President Jacob Zumas rape trial on February 13, 2006. File picture: Alon Skuy

Durban - The woman who accused President Jacob Zuma of rape lived an anonymous life side by side with her KwaMashu neighbours, who were totally ignorant of her history with the president.

Fezekile Ntsukela Kuzwayo, known by the pseudonym Khwezi, died in Johannesburg on Sunday after a long battle with HIV/Aids.

A person who lived with her in a rented one-roomed house in J-section said they were shocked to learn of her controversial past, and asked that their names not be revealed.

“We were shocked because we only knew her as friendly and loving Fezekile Kuzwayo. To find out that she was actually the Khwezi who was connected to Zuma was something we did not expect,” said the housemate.

A friend said she last saw Kuzwayo alive when a relative took her and her mother to a hospital in Johannesburg early last week.

Neighbours said Kuzwayo had kept her past well hidden. She was normally an indoor person and would only leave the house for church, work, choir practice or movies.

“She never went to a tuck shop, and she would send me to buy her airtime,” said one young woman.

On Kuzwayo’s return from the Netherlands, to which she had fled for her safety after Zuma was acquitted of the rape charges, Kuzwayo and her mother, Beauty Sibongile Kuzwayo, lived as tenants in different parts of KwaMashu.

“They were forced to leave their home in D section as neighbours and family members had turned against her,” a friend said.

Residents of J section, where they had occupied a one-roomed back house for more than six months in 2014, said they were shocked.

A neighbour said she would talk to Sibongile almost every time they saw each other.

“We would stand on opposite sides of the fence and talk about various things as neighbours. But what you are telling me now, that her daughter was the one connected to Zuma, is a surprise. What a lovely young woman,” said another neighbour.

Kuzwayo’s friend who became acquainted with her four years ago when she joined a choir had sad and wonderful memories of Kuzwayo.

“She was fond of classic music and opera. She also loved to sing and dance. She loved watching movies.”

The friend said former defence minister Ronnie Kasrils, whom Khwezi referred to as “uncle”, paid her a visit in Durban about three weeks ago.

“She treated him as a close family member. When she and her mother went to meet Ronnie for dinner she told me not to tell anyone,” she said.

Kasrils confirmed to The Mercury that he met Kuzwayo and her mother in Durban “a few weeks ago”.

“I was sympathetic to her because I knew her father who was a freedom fighter and with whom I spent many years. I knew her when she was a young girl,” he said.

Kasrils said since Zuma had spent 10 years with Kuzwayo’s father, Judson Kuzwayo, on Robben Island, where they became close friends, he should have made an effort to reconcile with her after the rape trial.

The friend said she learnt about Kuzwayo’s rape case two years ago, and Kuzwayo never liked discussing it.

“There were other people in the choir who already knew her past despite I being her close friend.

“She told me about her rape, and gradually disclosed that the case involved Zuma. When she was younger she was a political activist, but when I met her she hated politics because it had destroyed her emotionally and psychologically,” the friend said.

Kuzwayo had told her that she was not happy with the #RememberKhwezi campaign, as she wanted to move on from the past.

The friend said Kuzwayo was a pre-school teacher in Musgrave, and was studying towards becoming a professional teacher.

“But she had to drop her work and studies because of her ill health.”

The friend said Kuzwayo got married early this year without inviting friends to the wedding.

“But that relationship did not last. She said marriage was not for her,” she said.

The Mercury

Related Stories