http://www.thestar.com.my/news/regional/2016/09/01/n-korea-vicepremier-executed/
186
18
SEOUL: North Korea has executed a vice-premier for showing disrespect during a meeting presided over by leader Kim Jong-un and banished two other officials for re-education, South Korea said.

Since taking power after his father’s death in late 2011, Kim is believed to have executed or demoted a number of senior figures in what analysts say is an attempt to tighten his grip on power.

“Vice-premier for education Kim Yong-jin was executed,” Seoul’s Unification Ministry spokesman Jeong Joon-hee said at a regular briefing yesterday.

Yong-jin was killed by a firing squad in July as “an anti-party, anti-revolutionary agitator,” added an official at the ministry.

“He was denounced for his bad sitting posture when he was sitting below the rostrum” during a session of North Korea’s parliament and then underwent a interrogation that revealed his other crimes, the official told reporters.

The mass-selling JoongAng Ilbo daily first reported on Tuesday that top figures had been punished, but identified the education official by a different name.

“He incurred the wrath of Kim after he dozed off during a meeting presided over by Kim. He was arrested on site and intensively questioned by the state security ministry,” it quoted a source as saying.

The unification ministry said two other senior figures were forced to undergo re-education sessions.

One of them was Kim Yong-chol, a top official in charge of inter-Korean affairs and espionage activities against the South.

The 71-year-old Yong-chol is a career military intelligence official who is believed to be the mastermind behind the North’s frequent cyberattacks against Seoul.

He was also blamed by the South for the sinking of a South Korean warship in 2010 near the disputed sea border with the North in the Yellow Sea.

He was banished to an agricultural farm in July for a month for his “arrogance” and “abuse of power,” the ministry official said.

Yong-chol, who was subsequently reinstated this month, is likely to be tempted to prove his loyalty by committing provocative acts against the South, the official added.

South Korea’s Yonhap news agency put the number of officials executed during Kim’s rule at over 100.

The most notorious case was that of Kim’s uncle and one-time No. 2 Jang Song-thaek, who was executed for charges including treason and corruption in 2013. — AFP