http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3769567/Danish-ISIS-sympathiser-charged-attempted-murder-shooting-police-drug-raid-Copenhagen.html
182
18
A Danish man with alleged ties to terrorist groups has been charged with attempted murder after shooting at police conducting a drug raid in Copenhagen, seriously injuring one of them.

"He apparently has ties to (militant Islamist group) Millatu Ibrahim and sympathies for IS," police said of the 25-year-old man, referring to the Islamic State group.

They described the man – named by local media as Mesa Hodzic – as a Danish citizen who had come to the country from Bosnia when he was four years old.

However, the police said, there was "currently no evidence that (his alleged IS sympathies) has influenced the shooting incidents."

A Danish police officer stands by a patrol car near Christiania in Copenhagen late on Wednesday. Two police officers and a bystander were shot by a gunman during a drug raid in the area, which is known for the open sale of drugs

A Danish police officer and a police dog on patrol near Christiania following the triple shooting. The alleged gunman was later shot and injured by police when they arrested him several miles away near Copenhagen airport

Two police officers and a bystander were injured during the raid in Christiania yesterday. The area is a self-governing commune in the capital with a long history of openly trading drugs.

The suspect shot one officer in the head, a second in the thigh and a bystander in the leg before escaping.

Police tracked him down several hours later, three miles to the south in Kastrup, near the airport, where they shot him. He was hospitalised in a critical condition.

The suspect was unable to appear in court for a pre-trial hearing today but the court decided he should be kept under formal arrest until he is fit enough to face a hearing.

The area of the drugs raid is a self-proclaimed autonomous neighbourhood. The man who opened fire on police fled the scene but was later arrested

Armed officers remained on patrol there as daylight came today. Elsewhere in the city, a suspect was shot and arrested. He is alleged to have terror-group sympathies

In addition to three counts of attempted murder, he faces preliminary charges of possessing a firearm and trafficking 48 kilos (106 pounds) of cannabis, 2.7 kilos of skunk - a powerful type of marijuana - and over 1,800 joints, according to Danish news agency Ritzau.

Prime minister Lars Lokke Rasmussen said the shooting of police officers was ‘despicable’ and ‘disgusting’.