http://www.news.com.au/world/north-america/the-women-who-call-bill-clinton-a-sex-villain/news-story/b68772f70531ff23eaf19e3c371ae958
1821
18
Video

Image Trump weighs in on rapist Clinton defended as lawyer 1:08 Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump accuses the Democratic presidential nominee of "laughing at" a 12-year-old victim of rape, back when Clinton was a practicing attorney.

ARGUABLY the most shocking moment of this week’s jaw-dropping presidential debate came when Donald Trump directly accused Bill Clinton of abusing women and Hillary Clinton of attacking her husband’s victims.

Having hinted he would use Mr Clinton’s affairs against his presidential rival, the Republican nominee went even further by organising a pre-debate press conference with the accusers and inviting them to sit in the audience.

“If you look at Bill Clinton, far worse,” Mr Trump said when challenged on his own lewd comments about women at the debate. “Mine are words, and his was action. His was what he’s done to women. There’s never been anybody in the history of politics in this nation that’s been so abusive to women. So you can say any way you want to say it, but Bill Clinton was abusive to women.

“Hillary Clinton attacked those same women and attacked them viciously. Four of them here tonight.”

These are those women and what they claim.

PAULA JONES

The former Arkansas state employee alleged that in 1991 she was escorted to the then-governor’s hotel room in Little Rock, where he propositioned her and exposed himself.

She filed a sexual harassment suit against him in 1994, the year after he became president.

Her lawyers tried to prove a pattern of behaviour in which he seduced state or government employees by subpoenaing other women they alleged had had affairs with Mr Clinton.

One of these women was White House intern Monica Lewinsky. It was during the deposition in the Jones case that the president insisted he “did not have sexual relations” with Ms Lewinsky, which led to his 1998 impeachment by the House of Representatives for perjury and obstruction of justice. He was acquitted by the Senate in 1999.

His lawyers said the allegations the 49-year-old president had sex with Ms Lewinsky, then 22, called for a “speedy resolution” of Jones’s case. Her harassment lawsuit was dismissed before trial on the grounds she had failed to demonstrate any damages, but Mr Clinton paid Ms Jones an out-of-court settlement of $850,000 while the dismissal was on appeal.

Ms Jones was constantly in the news during the trial, when her marriage broke down and she unveiled a dramatic makeover — straightening her curly hair, switching to sophisticated outfits and allegedly having a nose-job.

Mr Trump was sensitive to the Clintons’ plight at the time, remarking that Ms Jones might be responsible for “indirectly” bringing down a president and that Mrs Clinton had “been through more than any woman should have to bear.”

Mr Clinton has denied all sexual assault allegations against him and only ever admitted extramarital relationships with Monica Lewinsky and Gennifer Flowers, denying accusations he had an affair with his high school sweetheart Dolly Kyle.

KATHLEEN WILLEY

One of those subpoenaed to testify in Ms Jones’ case was a former White House volunteer aide who alleged Mr Clinton sexually assaulted her in 1993, shortly after he became president.

In 1998, Ms Willey appeared on 60 Minutes to allege that Mr Clinton embraced her during a meeting in the Oval Office, kissed her on the mouth, grabbed her breast and put her hand on his genitals.

Mr Clinton told the US Office of the Independent Counsel Ms Willey had appeared “agitated,” and told him she was in “very difficult straits” because of “some family financial issues,” and “needed to earn some money.” After the incident, she wrote to him a number of times looking for work.

Ms Lewinsky told Kenneth Starr’s Report to the House of Representatives the president had told her Ms Willey’s harassment allegation was ludicrous, because he would never approach a woman with small breasts.

The Independent Counsel eventually declined to prosecute because there was insufficient evidence to prove the assault in front of a jury beyond reasonable doubt.

Its report noted that Ms Willey’s deposition in the Jones case differed from her grand jury testimony on material aspects of the alleged incident — for example, she said in the deposition could not recall whether President Clinton succeeded in kissing her and that he did not fondle her.

She also admitted to giving false information to the FBI about her sexual relationship with a former boyfriend.

JUANITA BROADDRICK

The former Clinton volunteer was dubbed Jane Doe No 5 in Ms Jones’s sexual harassment lawsuit, but denied she had been sexually assaulted by the president in an affidavit, calling the allegations “untrue.”

But in 1999, she appeared in a sensational episode of Dateline NBC in which she alleged Mr Clinton raped her in a hotel room in 1978.

Broaddrick claimed she met him for coffee in the lobby of her hotel, but Mr Clinton asked if they could go to her room to avoid a crowd of reporters.

She alleged he then forcibly pushed her on to the bed and attacked her, injuring her lip by biting it. Mr Clinton denied Broaddrick’s allegations through his lawyer.

Ms Broaddrick did not report the rape or tell her then-husband, although her friend and the man she was having an affair with (and later married) told NBC News she had told them at the time.

The 56-year-old told Dateline she denied the alleged assault in the Jones case because: “I didn’t want to be forced to testify about the most horrific event of my life.”

Three weeks afterwards, Ms Broaddrick attended a Clinton fundraiser. She told NBC News reporter Lisa Myers, “I think I was still in denial that time exactly what had happened to me. I still felt very guilty at that time that it was my fault.”

Again, there is no evidence here that would convict Mr Clinton, simply the word of Ms Broadrrick and her supporters against him and his, according to Vox. Former Newsweek reporter Michael Isikoff — who helped break the Monica Lewinsky story — said Mr Clinton’s lawyers had privately conceded he may have had consensual sex with Ms Broaddrick.

KATHY SHELTON

In the debate, Mr Trump confusingly followed his claims about Mr Clinton with: “One of the women, who is a wonderful woman, at 12 years old, was raped at 12. Her client she represented got him off, and she’s seen laughing on two separate occasions, laughing at the girl who was raped. Kathy Shelton, that young woman is here with us tonight.”

In fact, Ms Shelton’s story has nothing to do with Mr Clinton. Her alleged rapist was a 41-year-old man staying with her family, who was represented by Mrs Clinton in 1975.

Mrs Clinton was asked to take on the case because the client wanted a woman, but told prosecutor Mahlon Gibson at the time she did not feel comfortable taking it.

In a court affidavit unearthed by conservative news siteThe Free Beacon, Mrs Clinton wrote that she had been informed the young girl was “emotionally unstable” and had a “tendency to seek out older men and engage in fantasising.”

She said the girl had “in the past made false accusations about persons, claiming they had attacked her” and “exhibits an unusual stubbornness and temper when she does not get her way.”

She added: “I have also been told by an expert in child psychology that children in early adolescence tend to exaggerate or romanticise sexual experiences and that adolescents in disorganised families, such as the complainant’s, are even more prone to exaggerate behaviour.”

In the end, she negotiated a plea agreement in part because of mishandling of evidence, and the charges were reduced from first-degree rape to unlawful fondling of a minor under the age of 14.

There is no evidence the Democratic nominee has ever threatened any woman who accused her husband of assault, nor that she laughed at Ms Shelton, but The Free Beacon also found a recording of a 1980s interview in which Mrs Clinton does sound relaxed about the case and laughs in conversation.

“Terrible case,” she said. “It was a fascinating case, it was really an interesting case. This guy was accused of raping a 12-year-old who was the daughter of the family he was living with in Springdale. Of course he claimed that he didn’t. All this stuff.

“I had him take a polygraph, which he passed — which forever destroyed my faith in polygraphs [laugh].

“I handed [a clipping on a forensics expert] to [prosecutor] Mahlor Gibson and I said, ‘Well this guy’s ready to come from New York to prevent this miscarriage of justice [laughs].’

“[Judge] Maupin asked me to leave the room while he examined my client so that he could find out if [the plea bargain] was factually supported. I said ‘Judge I can’t leave the room I’m his lawyer!’ he said ‘I know but I don’t want to talk about this in front of you [laughs].’”

Ms Shelton only discovered in 2008 that Mrs Clinton was the defence lawyer in the case. In a Newsday interview that year, when she was in prison for cheque forgery to pay for her addiction to methamphetamines, she said she harboured no ill-will against Mrs Clinton, but blamed her problems in life on the attack.

She has since turned on Mrs Clinton, saying she “put her through hell.”