http://www.timesofisrael.com/idf-shutters-candy-store-owned-by-jerusalem-gunmans-family/
180
18
IDF engineers on Tuesday shut a candy store in the village of A-Ram, north of Jerusalem, that belongs to the family of a terrorist who killed two people in a Sunday shooting spree in the capital.

Troops welded iron bars across the entrances to the store, located on the ground floor of the family’s home. The move comes after what authorities described as the family’s deep involvement in celebrating the attack after the fact, and in inciting to further attacks.

The gunman, whose identity remains under a police gag order, opened fire on passersby and those waiting at a light rail stop near Ammunition Hill in the north of the capital on Sunday morning. Levana Malihi, 60, a retired Knesset employee, and police officer First Sergeant Yosef Kirma, 29, were killed in the attack and six others were injured before the gunman was killed by Kirma’s elite tactical police unit Yasam.

The gunman filmed a pre-attack video in the candy store in which he accused Israel of attempting to steal the Al-Aqsa Mosque atop the Temple Mount.

The store’s closure was ordered by IDF Central Command chief Maj. Gen. Roni Numa.

According to the Ynet news site, the early-morning operation to seal the building sparked a confrontation with local residents, with troops holding back rioters until morning.

Israeli authorities say the shooting was followed by an outburst of celebration in East Jerusalem and calls for further terror attacks.

In several places in East Jerusalem, residents were seen handing out sweets to passersby in celebration of the attack, with Palestinian media reports claiming that members of the gunman’s family took part in the festivities.

Police forcibly dispersed one demonstration in support of the terrorist, prevented the family from putting up a mourners’ tent outside their home, and arrested 15 on charges of incitement to terrorism, Ynet said.

The gunman’s Facebook page was also closed after authorities found many supportive and inciting posts following the attack.