http://www.whio.com/news/crime--law/bus-stop-rape-suspect-pleads-not-guilty/DRynHUa1dOU8uqTZHfBZiP/
1821
18
Updated: Thursday, October 13, 2016 @ 7:22 PM

By: Breaking News Staff

UPDATE @ 7:20 p.m. (Oct. 13):

A homeless registered sex offender pleaded not guilty today to kidnapping and sexually assaulting an 11-year-old girl while she waited at her bus stop.

Randy Stanaford’s bond was set at $250,000 during his arraignment in Montgomery County Common Pleas Court. He remains in the Montgomery County Jail.

Stanaford, 39, had a knife last month when he grabbed the girl on Edgar Avenue and raped her in a yard nearby. If conficted, he could spend the rest of his life in prison, prosecutors said.

UPDATE @ 2:40 p.m. (Oct. 7):

Randy Stanaford was indicted by a Montgomery County grand jury for kidnapping with a sexual motivation specification and rape with sexually violent predator specification.

He remains in Montgomery County Jail and will be arraigned Oct. 13.

UPDATE @ 1:47 p.m. (Oct. 4):

Randy Stanaford is accused of grabbing an 11-year-old girl at knifepoint before he dragged her to a side yard and sexually assaulted her, according to court records.

The juvenile victim was transported to Dayton Children’s Hospital, where DNA was collected that matched with Stanaford, documents indicated.

Stanaford was arraigned on charges of kidnapping and rape in Dayton Municipal Court Monday and is expected back in court on Oct. 7.

Stanaford’s bond was set at $500,000.

UPDATE @ 3:50 p.m. (Sept. 30): Felony charges of kidnapping and rape of a child under the age of 13 have been approved by the Montgomery County Prosecutor’s Office against Randy Stanaford, the Tier III sexual offender accused in the Edgar Avenue bus stop sex assault case.

UPDATE @ 5:35 p.m. (Sept. 29): Dayton police have booked a 39-year-old man, whose nickname is “Shrek,” into the Montgomery County Jail stemming from a sexual assault involving a juvenile female said to have occurred at a bus stop, according to police.

Randy Stanaford was picked up on a parole violation, but will be arrested on charges of kidnapping and rape in the Edgar Avenue case, Dayton police said in a prepared statement.

He is being detained in jail pending the filing of charges.

According to the sex offender registry that is linked to the sheriff’s website, Stanaford is listed as a Tier III sexual offender and his address was listed as homeless in the area of North Main Street and East Monument Avenue in Dayton.

In June 2014, he was released following a December 2008 conviction on charges of public indecency and kidnapping of a minor to engage in sexual activity (attempted), according to the registry. The kidnapping involved a juvenile female.

His nickname is “Shrek,” according to the registry.

The Tier III designation means he has to register his address every 90 days for the rest of his life.

UPDATE @ 12:32 p.m. (Sept. 27):

Dayton police have released a surveillance photo of the suspect in an alleged sexual assault at a bus stop on Edgar Avenue Monday.

Police have interviewed an individual, but they are not sure if that individual is the suspect in the case.

Dayton police have increased their patrols in the neighborhood where the incident took place, said Sgt. Monica Evans with the Dayton Police Department.

UPDATE @ 5:50 p.m. (Sept. 26)

Dayton police have released a description of a suspect who sexually assaulted a girl this morning at her bus stop on Edgar Avenue.

The suspect is described as a tall white man, possibly in his 40s, with a somewhat heavy build and dark, unshaven facial hair. He was last seen wearing a black shirt and red hat with “937” written on it and was carrying a red backpack. Anyone with information is urged to call Dayton police at 333-COPS(3677) or Crime Stoppers at 222-STOP(7867).

Police also released safety tips for parents with school-age children:

If at all possible, walk with your kids to the bus stop and wait with them until it arrives or encourage children to walk to school or the bus stop with a sibling or friend, and to wait at bus stops with other children.

Teach children to walk confidently and to be alert to what’s going on around them.

Instruct your children to never allow a stranger to remove them from anywhere if they become separated from you — they should resist.

Parents should be aware of any registered sex offenders in their neighborhood.

FIRST REPORT

Police in Dayton are investigating after a female minor reported she was sexually assaulted while on her way to school.

The alleged incident happened in the first block of Edgar Avenue near Heaton Avenue.

Crime scene tape was up outside near a home and an evidence crew processed the scene in the residential area at 9:30 a.m.

According to the dispatch call log, police received a complaint about a sexual assault involving a minor.

A Dayton police sergeant on scene tells us the girl reported being assaulted on her way to school. He said officers are pursuing leads and investigating.

No further details were released.

Download our free apps to get news and weather updates on your mobile devices.