http://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/crime/Nightmare-on-Namma-street-Lady-IAF-commander-thrashed-by-biker/articleshow/54872441.cms
180
18
A 36-year-old woman, an Air Force wing commander, was assaulted by a motorist last week for not being able to give him pass on a busy road in Jalahalli. Even more outrageously, the public, which gathered to watch the ‘fun’ helped the man escape instead of coming to her rescue.



The officer was going to see off a colleague around 5 pm. She was driving her car from Jalahalli West towards east area officers’ enclave. Near Fatima Church, a man on a bike started persistently honking. As it was a single-lane road with heavy traffic, she was unable to let him pass. Near Gangammanagudi circle traffic signal post, the man caught up with her and signalled her to stop the car.



When she parked and opened the window, he started punching her.



“He used foul language. He punched my face and it cut my upper lip. I came out of the vehicle to reason with him, but he punched me despite me telling him that I was an Air Force officer. I had to hold on to his hand to stop him. In the process, I fractured a finger. He pretended innocence to the bystanders and got their sympathy. There are injuries, bruises and scratch marks on my upper body,” the officer told BM. She was treated at the Air Force hospital later.



She said she held the man by the collar to stop him from escaping, but passersby pulled him away and asked him to flee. Shocked, she even took his bike keys, but he allegedly snatched the keys from her and fled.



According to a policeman, who is part of the investigation in the case, the woman was shaken, particularly for not being helped by passersby who allowed the man to assault her.



“She gave us the bike’s registration number. Since it is a Gujarat registration, we have written to the Gujarat transport department to track the address and give us the details,” said the official.



The Gangammanagudi police have registered a case of assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty, voluntarily causing hurt, wrongful restraint and intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace against the accused.