http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3832762/Terrified-covered-blood-wounded-little-Syrian-girl-cries-father-latest-innocent-victim-civil-war.html
182
18
Video shows a young girl, called Aya, caught up in bombing in Homs

Russian air strikes resumed in Aleppo following several days of calm

The youngster was pulled from rubble in Fardous neighbourhood

This is the incredible moment a young Syrian boy was found alive following Russian air strikes on a residential neighbourhood in Aleppo.

The youngster was pulled from the rubble by White Helmet rescue workers in the rebel-held Fardous neighbourhood of the city.

Photographs show him being given oxygen by medical staff before he was taken to hospital.

Scroll down for video

A young Syrian boy was rescued from the rubble by a member of the White Helmets following heavy air strikes on Aleppo

He was found in the debris following the attack on the rebel-held Fardous neighbourhood

The young boy was given oxygen by medical staff before being taken to hospital

Russian jets resumed heavy bombing of rebel-held eastern Aleppo on Tuesday after several days of relative calm.

The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said that at least eight people were killed in the Bustan al-Qasr and Fardous neighbourhoods.

The number of air strikes were reduced in Aleppo last week, which the Syrian army claimed was in part to allow civilians to leave rebel-held neighbourhoods.

Another youngster affected by a bombing raid was recorded crying for her father as she was treated by medics.

Two Syrian boys cry after Russian jets resumed bombing after several days of relative calm

The youngsters are seen weeping as adults around them try to comfort them

A Syrian boy waits to receive treatment at hospital following the latest attacks

Covered in blood and with cuts to her head, the young girl called Aya repeatedly cries 'Baba', which is Arabic for daddy.

Doctors wipe away blood from young Aya's face and scalp after she was injured during bombing in Talbiseh in Homs.

The terrified young girl was caught up in air and mortar strikes on Monday, before she was rescued and taken to a field hospital for treatment.

According to activist-run Talbiseh News, the town was hit with four strikes on Monday, in which two civilians were killed and many more injured, including children and babies.

A young girl, called Aya, was injured during bombing in Talbiseh in Homs on Monday

The little girl looks around the room and calls out for her dad as she is treated medics

According to the news agency, Aya was later reunited with her father after she was treated in the medical centre.

The town of Talbiseh, which has a population of 84,000, has suffered heavy bombing in recent weeks, after a seven-day ceasefire last month came to an end.

In September aid was able to reach the war-ravaged town for the first time since July.

Talbiseh lies close to the Lebanese border, and two hours south of the partly rebel-held Aleppo.

The town was hit with four strikes on Monday, in which two civilians were killed and many more injured, including children and babies

Talbiseh lies close to the Lebanese border, and two hours south of war-torn Aleppo