http://indianexpress.com/article/india/india-news-india/voting-underway-in-jnu-delhi-university-students-union-elections-3021696/
180
18
About 9,000 students will be voting in JNU to elect its student union representatives. (Source: ANI photo) About 9,000 students will be voting in JNU to elect its student union representatives. (Source: ANI photo)

The Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) and Delhi University (DU) students are set to elect their representatives for the students unions in polling taking place Friday. Voting is underway in the two politically active campuses.

The JNU elections are hogging limelight after the February 9 incident when anti-national slogans were allegedly raised in the campus which led to the arrest of outgoing JNU Students’ Union (JNUSU) president Kanhaiya Kumar and two others.

The date for declaration of JNU election results has not been officially announced but it’s likely to be September 11.

The voting for Delhi University Students Union (DUSU) elections will take place in two phases across 117 booths. Approximately 1,23,241 voters will be voting in 51 colleges to select the president, vice-president, secretary and general secretary of DUSU. Also about 9,000 students will be voting in JNU to elect its student union representatives.

There is the awareness that the polls this year are likely to be keenly watched and followed by many, owing largely to the nationalism debate triggered by an event organised on February 9 to mark the death anniversary of Parliament attack convict Azfal Guru. Alleged anti-national slogans were raised at the event. Another controversy erupted last month after a PhD student accused research scholar Anmol Ratan, former state president of All India Students’ Association (AISA), of rape. Both these issues are at the core of the elections this year.

After All India Students Federation (AISF) refused to enter the fray this year, the two other major Left parties — Students Federation of India (SFI) and All India Students Association (AISA) — agreed upon a strategy to fight the elections jointly, in that neither of the parties will field its candidate for a post if there’s already one fielded by the other.

© The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd