http://www.whio.com/news/crime--law/warren-man-indicted-for-raping-child-and-impaired-year-old-girl/AunEred5Tf5a43fvNKJ7YM/
186
18
Updated: Tuesday, October 11, 2016 @ 4:30 PM

By: Breaking News Staff

UPDATE @ 3:19 p.m. (Oct. 11):

Sgt. Larry Cornett, of Clearcreek Twp. police, said after James Almon was arrested on single counts of rape, weapons under disability, and providing alcohol to an underage person, a 2014 rape case was re-opened involving a different juvenile known to Almon.

Almon on Friday was indicted for another 15 counts of rape; five counts gross sexual imposition; and one count importuning. That female is now 15 and claims the assaults date back to 2014.

Almon will appear in Warren County Common Pleas Court Wednesday.

UPDATE @ 4:50 p.m. (Oct. 10):

The official indictment released by the Warren Co. Prosecutor’s Office states Almon had sexual contact with at least two different victims, and with force.

We know from Clearcreek Twp. police that one victim is an 18-year-old woman, a girlfriend of a family member, whom Almon allegedly gave alcohol, then raped inside his truck outside his home on Lytle Five Points Rd.

The second victim is a young female teenager and the alleged sexual assault occurred approximately one year ago, according to police.

According to the indictment the sexual assaults occurred between July 2014 and September of 2016.

UPDATE @ 3:50 p.m. (Oct. 10, 2016):

James Dickson Almon was indicted Monday by a Warren County Grand Jury on five criminal charges, including 15 counts of rape, 5 counts of gross sexual imposition, importuning, weapons under disability and sale of liquor to an underage person.

Almon is being held on no bond in the Warren County jail until a scheduled court appearance on these charges October 12. We have asked for more details on this case from Clearcreek Twp. police and Warren County prosecutors, and will post new developments here as we receive them.

DOWNLOAD OUR MOBILE APPS FOR LATEST NEWS

FIRST REPORT (Sept. 15, 2016):

A Clearcreek Twp. man is in jail, accused of providing alcohol to an underage person and then sexually assaulting her.

James D. Almon, 46, has been in Warren County Jail since Sept. 11 by Clearcreek Twp. police on charges of rape, weapons under disability, and offense involving underage person.

Sgt. Larry Cornett said the alleged sexual assault happened Sept. 9 into Sept. 10 at Almon’s home on Lytle 5 Points Road.

The alleged victim, an 18-year-old woman who is known to Almon, was substantially impaired at the time of the sex offense, Cornett said.

Almon has a preliminary hearing in Warren County Court Sept. 20.

Almon has a lengthy criminal history, including felonious assault in Franklin County and domestic violence, Cornett said.

Cornett said the man is being investigated for other crimes.

DOWNLOAD OUR MOBILE APPS FOR LATEST NEWS