http://www.whio.com/news/million-gift-sets-record-for-miami-university/y2q7gMEQxP3vEwGYXfnrUI/
186
18
Updated: Friday, November 04, 2016 @ 6:24 PM

By: Laura A. Bischoff - Columbus bureau

In what is likely his last campaign appearance in Ohio before Election Day, Republican Donald Trump on Friday made his closing argument at an air hangar in Wilmington, calling Democrat Hillary Clinton corrupt, guilty and unstable.

Trump said Clinton “created an illegal email server to shield her criminal activity and corrupt pay-for-play” and destroyed 33,000 emails after receiving a Congressional subpoena.

“If she were to win, it would create an unprecedented constitutional crisis. She is likely to be under investigation for a long time, concluding probably in a criminal trial,” he said. “He look, we all want to go through a process and we want to make sure everyone is guilty, properly guilty. Everything has to be perfect but she did things where, and we have our trial, but she’s guilty. She’s guilty.”

Trump said the FBI indicated its renewed investigation will likely yield an indictment. “If she ever got into the Oval office, Hillary and her corrupt friends would rob this country blind.”

The crowd of roughly 2,000 ate up Trump’s hot rhetoric on Clinton’s emails as well as his promises to build a wall on the U.S. Mexico border, defeat ISIS, create jobs, help African Americans in the inner city, and put a stop to illegal immigration.

Trump, who spoke for roughly 45 minutes, holds a 5-point lead over Democrat Hillary Clinton, according to a Quinnipiac University poll released Wednesday. Trump holds 46 percent to Clinton’s 41 percent while Libertarian Gary Johnson is pulling 5 percent, the poll found.

No Republican has ever won the White House without carrying Ohio and the last Democrat to do so was John F. Kennedy in 1960.

Clinton is scheduled to do a Get Out the Vote rally with superstar couple Jay Z and Beyonce at Cleveland State University on Friday night and hold another event in Cleveland on Sunday. Crucial to her being able to carry Ohio is voter turnout in Democrat-heavy Cuyahoga County.

Earlier Friday, retired Navy Rear Admiral Deborah Loewer, a Springfield native and lifelong Republican who is backing Clinton for president, said Clinton – not Trump — has the temperament and national security credentials to be commander in chief.

In 2001, Loewer directed the Situation Room and was traveling with President George W. Bush during the 9/11 attacks.

“During that entire time, the president was focused, disciplined, even-tempered and measured in everything he said and every action he took. I know firsthand the responsibilities that come with the title Commander in Chief. The qualities and the personal traits that an individual who wants to be our president absolutely must have. Donald Trump has demonstrated to us all that he does not have the patience, the experience, the emotional fortitude and yes the temperament to be our president,” Loewer said. “Frankly, I don’t trust him to pull it together and be calm under pressure and be able to unemotionally respond to the myriad of crises that our president faces every single day.”

Loewer remarked that Trump’s campaign staff is monitoring his tweeting. “A person who can’t even be trusted in how he uses his own Twitter account is asking the American people to trust him with the nation’s nuclear codes,” she said.

A mid-October poll of 2,500 active duty troops by Military Times showed more than 40 percent said they planned to vote for Trump, 27 percent back Libertarian Gary Johnson and 20.6 percent favor Clinton.

Trump said Clinton is responsible for instability in Iraq and Libya and the growth of ISIS.

“She’s an unstable person folks, I know my people. She’s an unstable person.”