http://nation.com.pk/lahore/11-Oct-2016/third-woman-found-murdered-in-week
182
18
LAHORE - A 40-year-od woman yesterday was found brutally murdered in Lahore’s Shahdara Town neighbourhood, the third such killing in just one week.



Investigators said the charred body was found from River Ravi near Haji Kot area yesterday.

Some passersby spotted the body and contacted the police by phone.

The body, not identified yet, was moved to the morgue for autopsy.



A police officer said that the lady was set on fire after being murdered by unidentified killers.

The officer termed the killing as a “blind murder” and said that they were investigating the killing, keeping in view different aspects of the happening.



The police filed a murder cases against unidentified killers and were investigating with no arrest made yet.



The unknown body discovered from the River Ravi yesterday was the third similar killing in Lahore during the last one week.



Police investigators have badly failed to trace the killers, as horrific homicides have triggered panic among the local population.



A 40-year-old woman was found slaughtered near the Jahangir Tomb in Shahdara on early Saturday.



A couple of days ago, a young woman was found stuffed in a suitcase alongside a drain near Choburgi Park in Lytton Road.

Police believed the killers packed the lady in a plastic bag and then stuffed her into the suitcase case.

It seemed that the lady was murdered somewhere else and the killers fled after throwing her body into the drain in Lytton Road police precincts, a police official said.

According to investigators, the young lady was slaughtered with a sharp-edge weapon.



The investigations police are treating the deaths as homicide and investigations were underway to solve the “blind murders” with no clue in hand.



IGP for more recruits

Punjab Inspector General of Police Mushtaq Ahmad Sukhera yesterday directed his department to complete recruitment on 300 vacancies of constables and 44 of drivers for Riverine posts.



According to a police spokesman, the police chief also directed the additional-IG (Establishment) to initiate the recruitment process early in order to meet the shortage of personnel of Riverine posts.



All the regional and district police officers were asked to ensure that officials and vehicles deployed at Riverine posts should not be used for any other purpose.



The IGP issued these directions while presiding over a meeting held at Central Police Office.

Police officers including additional- Sohail Khan, Capt (r) Arif Nawaz, Amjad Javed Saleemi, Dr Arif Mushtaq, Ali Zulnorain, Aamir Zulfiqar Khan, and Shahid Hanif were also present in the meeting.



Additional IG Punjab Highway Patrol, Amjad Javed Saleemi briefed the IGP regarding Riverine posts and inter-provincial border check-posts.

He informed the meeting that inspection of 49 Riverine posts had been completed and these posts were fully operational while inspection of remaining posts would be completed within one week.



He also said that optical fiber cables with 10 MB internet connection were provided to all check-posts.

The posts will be monitored in all districts; moreover a dashboard is established in CPO for centralized monitoring.



IGP directed Additional IG Punjab Highway Patrol to call a meeting of all relevant RPOs and DPOs at CPO by Friday to review progress on Riverine posts.

While briefing about “Guzara Allowance ATM Cards” for widows of martyrs and police officials passed away during service, Additional IG Welfare and Finance, Sohail Khan and AIG Kamran Khan told the IGP that 3000 “Guzara Allowance ATM Cards” had been issued throughout the province, out of which 85 per cent cards were activated.



TWO MEN DIE

Two men died in road mishaps which took place in Johar Town and Shahdara Town yesterday, rescue workers said.



According to police, a 65-year-old man was crushed to death by a rashly driven car in Shahdara Town.

The man identified as Maqsood Ahmed was crossing the GT Road when a speedy car ran over him.

The man died on the spot while the driver along with the car managed to escape from the scene.



Police later reached the spot and handed over the body to the family.

The police registered a case against unidentified driver and were investigating with no arrest made yet.



In another incident, a 40-yerar-old motorcyclist was killed by a recklessly driven car in Johar Town.

The police were yet to ascertain the identity of the deceased.

The body was moved to the morgue.



An eyewitness told the police that a car hit the motorcyclist near Allahu Chwok.

As a result, the motorcyclists died on the spot while driver along with the driven fled instantly.

The police were investigating the death.



DRUG ADDICT FOUND DEAD

A 50-year-old man was found dead from a footpath in Data Darbar police precincts yesterday.

The body, unidentified so far, was moved to the morgue for autopsy.

A police investigator said that apparently the deceased was a drug addict.

Further investigations were underway.

