http://classic.iol.co.za/news/crime-courts/serial-rapist-i-was-looking-for-motherly-love-1.2068114
1821
18
INDEPENDENT MEDIA Khanyisani Njabulo Ngobese was sentenced to three life terms plus 105 years in jail, to run concurrently.

Durban - A convicted serial rapist was on Wednesday sentenced to three life terms plus 105 years in jail, to run concurrently.

On Tuesday, Khanyisani Njabulo Ngobese, 27, of KwaMashu, appealed to a Durban High Court judge’s maternal instincts when considering his sentence, while the State argued for a 190-year sentence and three life terms.

Ngobese was convicted on several counts of rape and robbery with aggravating circumstances by Judge Kate Pillay last week. Of the 10 victims raped, three were minors, aged 6, 13 and 16.

Ngobese on Tuesday maintained his innocence, testifying he had consensual sex with the victims and considered them to be his girlfriends.

He also told the court he had grown up without a mother because she had deserted him at a young age. As a result, he searched for a girlfriend who could give him that motherly love and nurturing, but kept finding the wrong woman.

From July 2011 to July 2013, he had raped the victims and robbed seven at knifepoint.

His modus operandi was grabbing them from behind, threatening them with a knife and taking them into nearby bushes where he raped them. In some cases, he had lured the women with promises of employment.

These incidents occurred in Mandeni, Phoenix, Newlands East and Newlands West.

Two victims were walking to school and one was walking to a relative’s house to borrow an outfit for the reed dance, when the incidents happened.

Ngobese told Pillay he did not want his four children to be in a similar situation as him, growing up without their parents. His father died in 2008.

He appealed to her maternal instincts, saying he did not want his children to grow up without a father because he knew how difficult it was.

“I don’t know some of my children because they were born while I was in prison. I don’t know if they’ll ever know me. I ask the court for leniency,” Ngobese testified.

State advocate, Khatija Essack, asked Ngobese how he would feel if his 7-year-old daughter was raped while he was in prison. He replied that he would not be able to do anything, but would be hurt because he was in prison.

Essack also asked if he was sexually abused as a youngster and he said he was physically abused by his uncles.

When Pillay questioned Ngobese, the court learnt that he had committed two of the rapes while he was on bail on a rape charge.

She had asked Ngobese what remorse he had shown for his conduct and he replied that he had cried in court and had also “cried inside”.

His legal counsel, Marshal Zulu, had argued that because of Ngobese’s childhood, he was a good candidate for rehabilitation and had asked for the court to deviate from the minimum prescribed sentence.

Essack, however, had argued that Ngobese was still not prepared to take responsibility for his actions. She said his childhood was not a substantial and compelling circumstance to stray from the minimum prescribed sentence.

“He shows no respect for women and has no prospects of rehabilitation. He not only raped them, but robbed them. They were helpless women who could not overpower him. There was no need for violence and a weapon to be used each time,” she argued.

Many of the women were unemployed and looking for jobs when they went with him.

“He robbed them of what little they had. In some cases, he stole R10 and a cellphone. The most he stole was R250,” she said.

She called for three terms of life imprisonment and a total of 190 years for the other counts, which amounted to a single life term should the sentences run concurrently. Victim impact statements submitted to the court referred to the women being embarrassed and traumatised.

Those who were married or had boyfriends were afraid to tell them what had happened, and when they did, their partners did not believe it was rape, but an affair.

Daily News

IOL on Twitter

IOL News on Facebook

Get our free IOL newsletters - subscribe here...