http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/furious-eu-brexit-chief-hits-8830832
182
18
Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

Nigel Farage and the EU's chief Brexit negotiator traded magnificent insults today on the floor of the European Parliament.

Ex-Belgian PM Guy Verhofstadt was left furious after Mr Farage branded him the "high priest" of the "temple" of Brussels and Strasbourg.

Ukip's outgoing leader claimed appointing Mr Verhofstadt was a "declaration of war" on Britain because he believes so strongly in the EU project.

But Mr Verhofstadt said he should look at his own aggressive politics first - comparing him to an alcoholic complaining someone else had drunk a pint.

"You have already appointed your divorce lawyers," Mr Farage told MEPs.

Nigel Farage was on combative form in the European Parliament

"If you were to think of this building as a temple, well Mr Verhofstadt is the high priest. A fanatic.

"In fact, there is only one real nationalist in the room and it is you. You want flags, anthems, armies - you are an EU nationalist.

"I frankly think this announcement amounts to a declaration of war on any sensible negotiating process."

Mr Verhofstadt said he was no longer shocked by Mr Farage's antics.

AFP/Getty Images Mr Farage is regularly booed and heckled when he speaks to MEPs

"Mr Farage is like an alcoholist [sic] who complains another guy is drinking a pint in a pub - to give a good example he can understand," he said.

"It's ridiculous.

"The reality is that for nationalist and populist, it's not about Brexit . It's not about the interest of British citizens. It's about destroying Europe. It's about destroying the European Union, is the real agenda."

Guy Verhofstadt said Nigel Farage was like an alcoholic complaining about a drinker

The exchange came after European Commission president Jean-Claude Juncker called for a new defence force - leading to claims by critics of an "EU army".

Mr Juncker also condemned the murder of a Polish man in Essex and the suspected rise in hate crime following the Brexit vote.

Mr Juncker defended the free movement of European Union citizens - seen as a key factor in the vote to leave - as he denounced the killing of Arkadiusz Jozwik in Harlow last month.

PA/Essex Police MEPs heard about the suspected race hate murder of Arkadiusz Jozwik in Essex

Police are treating the attack as a possible hate crime and six teenagers, aged 15 and 16, have been arrested and released on bail.

Poles have been victims in a series of incidents since the UK voted to leave the EU in June, including the assault of two Polish men within hours of a vigil following Mr Jozwik's death.

Last week a Polish man was attacked and beaten by a group of up to 20 teenagers in a suspected racially-aggravated assault in Leeds.

Amid the violence, Theresa May called the Polish prime minister Beata Szydlo to express her "deep regret" and to stress "hate crime has no place in UK society".

AFP/Getty Images European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker gave his annual address

At his state of the EU address to the European Parliament, Mr Juncker said: "We Europeans can never accept, never, Polish workers being harassed, beaten up or even murdered in the streets of Essex."

He added: "The free movement of workers is as much a common European value as our fight against discrimination and racism."

Meanwhile, Mr Juncker suggested that Britain cannot be a member of the European single market and regain full control over immigration from the continent.

He said the UK cannot expect "a la carte" access to the free trade zone once Brexit is delivered.