http://www.news.com.au/national/nsw-act/first-photo-of-stephanie-scott-killer-vincent-stanford-as-he-appears-for-sentence-hearing/news-story/1c19491c4f0345ddd5c938dbd99c0003
181
18
Video

Image Vincent Stanford arrives at Griffith court 0:20 Vincent Stanford is escorted by correctional service officers into Griffith Local Court, after pleading guilty to murder and aggravated sexual assault of Leeton schoolteacher Stephanie Scott. Courtesy: AAP

SARAH CRAWFORD The Daily Telegraph

A SCHOOL cleaner who raped and bashed to death a drama teacher six days before her wedding day could give police no explanation for his horrifying crime telling them, “I think I went nuts”.

At a special sitting of the Supreme Court in Griffith yesterday killer Vincent Stanford came face-to-face with teacher Stephanie Scott’s family and friends who filled the small courtroom almost to capacity as the video of his chilling confession was played.

Vincent Stanford's police confession 0:42 The video of Vincent Stanford's confession shown at his sentencing in court.

In an emotionless voice with a thick Dutch accent the 24-year-old explained to detectives how he killed Ms Scott and then went home to have a cheese sandwich for lunch.

“I had to kill her. I was not angry or anything, I was pretty emotionless, I just thought I had to kill her ... I think I have mental problems, I didn’t feel angry, I just wanted to kill.”

READ THE FULL VICTIM IMPACT STATEMENT HERE

Stanford, now 25, has pleaded guilty to the rape and murder of the 26-year-old teacher from Leeton High School in the NSW Riverina, on Easter Sunday last year.

Agreed facts tendered to court revealed that two months before the murder, Stanford made numerous Google searches including “bride rape” and “bride rape vid”.

While a day before her death Stanford made numerous internet searches for knives including “serial killer knives, widow knives and sharpest puncture knives”.

In an emotionally-charged sentencing hearing Ms Scott’s mother read out a victim impact statement in which she said her daughter represented “all that was good in human kind,” while Stanford was “pathetic and inept”.

Ms Scott’s shattered fiance Aaron Leeson-Woolley kept his head down throughout the deeply moving speech furiously fighting back tears.

Crown prosecutor Lee Carr asked that Stanford be given a life sentence saying it was a “cold-blooded, merciless and sexually motivated killing”.

The court heard Ms Scott had gone to the school in the midmorning to prepare lessons ahead of her honeymoon.

Stanford waited in the corridor for Ms Scott to leave with the unsuspecting woman wishing him a “Happy Easter” moments before he attacked.

During his confession Stanford told detectives how he dragged a struggling Ms Scott into a storeroom, bashed her in the face “30 to 40 times”, and stabbed her in the “carotid artery” in the neck.

He then went to his home that he shared with his mother Anneka Noort and older brother Luke, where he drank a coffee and ate a cheese sandwich while Ms Scott’s body remained in the blood-splattered storeroom at the school.

He then returned to the school, put her body in the boot of her car and spent several hours cleaning the storeroom with a high pressure cleaner.

In the early hours of the following morning he drove to Cocoparra National Park, 70km from Leeton, where he set her body on fire.

Stanford was arrested two days later following a police search of his home where detectives found items belonging to Ms Scott including her red bra and a set of school keys given to her by another staff member. Police also found two photos of a burnt body on Stanford’s phone which he said he had downloaded from a horror movie.

When detectives asked Stanford why he kept her bra he said: “I honestly don’t know. Maybe I wanted a souvenir.”

His identical twin brother Marcus Stanford has previously pleaded guilty to being an accessory after the fact to murder.

His brother was sentenced to 15 months jail in August for pawning Ms Scott’s two rings.

Stanford will be sentenced by Justice Robert Allan Hulme tomorrow morning.

DREAMING OF MURDER FROM AGE OF SEVEN

Sarah Crawford

AT the age of seven he fantasised about killing someone and by 12 he had choked a teacher and was placed in a mental health unit.

But at the age of 24, when Vincent Stanford was employed by Colin Joss and Co as a casual cleaner for six schools, including three primary schools, he had no criminal history and his violent tendencies weren’t known.

Court documents reveal Stanford would show up at Leeton High School outside of his work hours and was occasionally found in the girls toilets during the lunch break when the students were using the facilities.

Stanford’s history of mental illness was detailed in two psychological assessments in which one psychiatrist described him as having “characteristics of sexual sadism”.

Stanford was diagnosed in both assessments as having autism spectrum disorder.

He told psychologist Anna Robilliard “he had thoughts of killing someone from the time he was seven or eight years old and when he saw Ms Scott he had to kill her”.

Stanford detailed how, at the age of 12, he attacked a teacher by choking her and was placed in a mental health unit for several months.

He said he did not have the capacity to adapt to society.

“I would have to require emotions, I have almost none, I have hatred,” he said.

Stanford was born in Tasmania but at the age of two his mother, Anneka Noort, took him to her native Netherlands along with his twin, Marcus, and their older brother Luke.

In 2013, Marcus moved to Adelaide and the following year Ms Noort moved with her two other sons back to Australia, where they lived in a caravan park at Griffith.

The following month the three moved to Leeton.