http://www.india.com/news/india/normal-life-hit-as-bjp-hartal-turns-violent-in-many-places-1556516/
1823
18
Thiruvananthapuram, Oct 13 : An activist of SDPI was stabbed to death in Kerala’s Kannur district today as violence marred the state-wide hartal called by BJP in protest against the murder of a party worker allegedly by CPI(M) activists. Normal life was hit with public transport keeping off the roads and shops and business establishments remaining shut. BJP activist Remith was hacked to death in the home town of Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan yesterday within 48 hours of the murder of a CPI(M) activist and toddy shop worker Mohanan (40) by a six-member gang at Pathiriyad in Kannur district. Kannur, where police was on vigil throughout as the body of the slain youth was cremated, witnessed another murder today when Farooq (40), activist of SDPI (Social Democratic Party of India), political wing of Popular Front of India, was stabbed to death by a group.

Police, however, said this was not a political murder and was due to previous enmity even as SDPI pointed fingers at IUML. Some incidents of violence were reported from various parts of the state. In some places, hartal supporters blocked private vehicles from plying. At Thrissur, hartal supporters damaged the memorial of Azhikode Raghavan, a Communist leader. At Ottapalam in Palakkad district, activists of RSS and CPI(M)’s youth wing DYFI clashed resulting in injuries to three DYFI workers, police said. Also Read: Shiv Sena questions BJP’s timing to raise corruption in BMC

There was a minor clash between BJP and CPI(M) workers at Sreevaraham in Thiruvanathapuram and some workers were injured, police said. Meanwhile, Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Nalini Netto and state DGP Loknath Behara met Governor P Sathasivam and apprised him of the law-and-order situation in the state. This is in view of the governor expressing concern over the recent ‘isolated incidents’ of political murders in Kannur district, a Raj Bhavan press release.

They informed the governor efforts were on to apprehend the culprits, irrespective of their party affiliations. The governor also appealed to leaders of all political parties to convince their local units and cadres on the need to settle differences and disputes amicably and without resorting to violence of any kind. He also expressed hope that all political parties would come forward to share the responsibilities to maintain peace in areas witnessing violent incidents. The release also stated that the ‘petition on political violence’ in Kannur received by the governor and forwarded to the chief minister was also being ‘acted upon’.