http://thenationonlineng.net/man-bags-19-years-rape/
1823
18
Chief Magistrate Kikelomo Ayeye of the Lagos State Magistrates’ Court, Tinubu yesterday found Sheriff Oyewole guilty of rape and sentenced him to 19 years’ imprisonment.

The convict was arranged by the police on a 12-count charge contrary to and punishable under Sections 258, 171, 241, 271(a)(c), 272, 220, 144, 261, 263, 316, 337 (7), 134 (2) of the Criminal Laws of Lagos State, 2011.

The offence bordered on unlawful sexual intercourse, detaining to have unlawful sex in a hotel room, engaging in sexual activities without consent, assault and sexual assault.

Other counts included unlawfully administering poison, taking nude pictures of a girl and threatening to use the picture to cause injury to her reputation as well as unlawful carnal knowledge of a girl.

Oyewole was also charged with forcible removal of the cloth of a girl and dipping it in water leaving her naked.

Magistrate Ayeye found Oyewole guilty on five of the 12 counts.

Delivering it judgment, Ayeye said: “Prosecution has thus proved counts 1, 2, 7, 8 and 9 offences against the defendant beyond reasonable doubt.

“The defendant is hereby convicted and sentenced as follows: unlawful sexual intercourse five years, detaining to have unlawful sex in a hotel room five years, engaging in sexual activities without consent five years, assault one year, sexual assault three years.”

During the trial, the prosecution called four witnesses and tendered five exhibits.

The first prosecution witness was the victim.

She told the court that she had known Oyewole for over 10 years and that her father accommodated the defendant in their house by recommendation from a friend who resided on the same street.

Under cross examination, she emphasised that Oyewole sexually violated her, took her nude pictures and threatened to post her pictures on social media.

She stated that the defendant was like a brother to her and that on August 16, last year they both went to a party with her father’s approval where they ate and drank.

“I took a bottle of Baileys, and around 7.30pm, I told the defendant I needed to start going home, but the defendant told me to hold on, that he needed to lodge three of his friends in a hotel in the neighbourhood and to ensure they were settled in the hotel,” she said.

She testified that on getting to the hotel, the defendant told her not to wait outside the hotel but to come up with him. She stated that because of the trust she had in him, she followed him upstairs. By that that time, she added, she was already feeling dizzy, so defendant took her to a small room and told her to wait while he settled with his three friends.

“Not long afterwards, defendant came back to the room, locked the door and started harassing me that he wanted to have sex with me,

“I dragged with him but he overpowered me and ripped my underwear, bra and tights and he soaked the clothes in water in the bathroom,” she said.

The victim added that soon afterwards, she fainted and that was when the defendant raped her.