http://www.dailymail.co.uk/indiahome/indianews/article-3852974/Dacoits-jungle-Maoists-house-hunt-Delhi-digs-Chambal-gangs-descend-capital-planning-loot-ATMs-hold-cash-vans-carry-abductions.html
180
18
The dacoits (armed robbers) of Chambal are coming to Delhi. And with them are the Maoists.

The aim of these criminals and red rebels is simple: to make quick buck in the urban base and keep their gangs alive.

According to the police, Maoists from the jungles and dacoits from Chambal are increasingly moving to urban centres like Delhi and NCR looking for more money.

The dacoits (armed robbers) and 'jungle' Maoists of Chambal are coming to Delhi to make quick buck in an urban base and keep their gangs alive (picture for representation only)

Here they are targeting big businessmen to get access to sophisticated weaponry.

Last week, the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) arrested nine suspected Maoists from sector 47 in Noida.

After detailed interrogation the gang confessed that they were planning to loot bank ATM machines, cash vans or carry out abductions for ransom in the National Capital Region.

The gang was allegedly trying to create a base in Delhi’s neighbourhood - Noida where they had plans to expand their network with the help of local thugs.

Last week, the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) arrested nine suspected Maoists from sector 47 in Noida

The Maoists - who were arrested with sophisticated weapons, explosives and detonators - were allegedly planning to kidnap big businessmen to fund their activities in hinterland of Bihar.

"The Maoists usually fight the security forces in the jungles or attack the villagers. But they have now realised that they need more money to continue fighting.

"So they shifted to places like Noida where they can find their potential targets," a senior officer associated with the case told Mail Today. He said these dacoits and Maoists can make just about Rs 50,000 to a lakh from a bus or train robbery.

But they would make several lakhs from the ransom money if they could abduct a rich businessman in the NCR.

"They are old-school criminals but they are now interested in modern crimes like extortion, bank robbery and even financial frauds.

"Some of the members of the gangs are sent to urban centres to make friends with local criminals and learn the new crime techniques," said a senior police officer.

Though the police had earlier claimed to have arrested Maoist ideologues from cities such as Delhi and Hyderabad, this was for the first time that they are nabbing these rebels who have plans to carry out criminal activities in major urban areas.

'Some of the members of the gangs are sent to urban centres to make friends with local criminals and learn the new crime techniques,' a senior police officer told Mail Today

In Bihar, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand they have to rely on snatching weapons from armed forces.

But in cities like Delhi, Noida and Gurugram, a country-made gun is easily available to local criminals.

Besides arresting Maoists, Delhi Police recently busted a gang of dacoits from Chambal, who were running extortion racket in the NCR.

Police said the dacoits of Chambal have expanded beyond the ravines and are now abducting people from big cities like Delhi and other NCR towns.

A Faridabad doctor and his compounder, who were abducted from Jaitpur last month, were victims of one such gang based out of Kampil.

The two key accused in this case, Rishi Khalifa and Pramod Kumar, were arrested from Hathras and Birpur last week.

They were part of a gang that was operating in the Capital for the past few years. Khalifa had approached Kumar, who was a conduit for Chambal gangs, to float a new gang.

The gangs operate out of estuaries and islands of river Ganga between Kanpur and Gwalior.

The gang was in touch with local criminals in the NCR cities who provided information about potential targets and also made arrangements for abduction.