http://www.thestar.com.my/news/in-other-media/2016/09/07/police-remanded-over-alleged-assault-on-teacher/
180
18
A police officer has been remanded after he allegedly assaulted a teacher who was on his way home after giving extra class in Lenggong, Perak, last week. State police chief Datuk Seri Abdul Rahim Hanafi confirmed that the police officer was being investigated under Section 325 of the Penal Code. He said a remand order will be applied today from the magistrate’s court in Pengkalan Hulu. A video clip has went viral showing two plain clothes policemen overpowering the teacher to the ground before they handcuffed him. The victim could be heard saying they had the wrong guy several times in the video. It is understood that the incident happened at 7.15pm on Aug 30 when the teacher was on his way home after teaching before he was chased after by the two policemen on a motorcycle. The teacher was brought to the Lenggong police station and released after he was cleared of any wrongdoings. He sustained hand injuries and was given three weeks sick.

>Millionaire ex-transgender becomes woman again

Cosmetic millionaire Safiuddin Ilias, who made news in April this year after he gave up his transgender life, has transformed into a woman again due to public stigma. Safiuddin, 22, previously did a reconstructive surgery to remove his breast implants to revert back to being a man. However, he came out as a transgender woman again lately as revealed in an Instagram post, saying he was tired of the harsh criticisms targeted against him. "People insulted me when I became a transgender, and continued to question me when I was a man. Some have claimed that I used religion to make business and many more," Safiuddin, whose female name is Sofea, lamented on Instagram.

>Maid caught abusing employer

A maid was caught abusing her employer’s 96-year-old mother, including elbowing her on the head and pressing a pillow on her face in Singapore. The 25-year-old Indonesian maid, known as Murni Panengsih, was even seen taping the woman’s mouth on closed-circuit television (CCTV) camera placed in the house. She was sentenced to 10 months’ jail on Monday. According to her employer, known as Huang Li Zhen, in her 50s, her mother was abused for no less than 15 times for one-and-a-half years. She said she only discovered about the abuse on Sept 17 last year after checking the CCTV recordings on her handphone. “I called her up and she apologised. She even SMSed me to apologise,” she said. Huang said her mother passed away in December last year.

> Him and Tavia hosting wedding banquet at The Ritz-Carlton

Hong Kong actor Him Law and actress Tavia Yeung are hosting a wedding banquet at The Ritz-Carlton in Hong Kong on Oct 2. It is learnt that the couple would only register their marriage on that day. Law had earlier given Yeung a very secret ceremony in England in March this year. Soon after the ceremony, the couple had been attending promotional activities together. Yeung is busy preparing the wedding banquet, including sending out invitations cards to her guests since Law is still working in China. He is only expected to be in Hong Kong end of the month.