http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3739948/Woman-dies-injuries-doused-flammable-liquid-Swiss-train-attack-five-including-girl-six-remain-hospital.html
182
18
A man who carried out a stabbing and arson attack on a Swiss train has died along with one of his victims who was doused in a flammable liquid.

Swiss police confirmed that the man, 27 and the woman, 34 succumbed to their injuries after the incident in a train carriage in the eastern canton of Saint Gallen yesterday.

The attack came as the man set a train carriage on fire and stabbed at passengers, including a six-year-old child, leaving four people in hospital.

Police say the suspect, who has now died after setting himself on fire, was a 27-year-old Swiss national who was not of immigrant origin and did not have a criminal record.

Scroll down for video

A 27-year-old man went on a stabbing spree and set a train, pictured, on fire in Switzerland

Seven people, including a six-year-old child, were injured in the attack, and have all been taken to hospital as emergency services remain at the scene (pictured)

Police, pictured, from nearby St Gallen are investigating but have yet to establish a motive

Clean-up crews are now at the station after emergency services took the victims and offender to hospital, with the latter in 'critical condition'

The woman who died had received a large portion of the flammable liquid over her, leading to speculation she might have been the main target of the attack.

But police spokesman Bruno Metzger said he could not confirm that, and another police spokesman Hanspeter Kruesi told AFP late Saturday it did not appear that the attack was directed at a single person.

He said it remained unclear if the attacker knew any of the victims.

The attack happened near Salez-Sennwald Train Station on the line between Buchs and Sennwald at around 2.20pm near the border with Liechtenstein and Austria.

The victims, who in addition to the 34-year-old woman included two men aged 17 and 50, two women aged 17 and 43 and a six-year-old girl, suffered burns and stab wounds.

One of the women and the child were in serious condition, police said, adding dozens of people were on the train at the time of the attack.

So far a 17-year-old girl, 17-year-old boy, 50-year-old man and two women aged 34 and 43 have been confirmed among the wounded

The offender has been confirmed as being a Swiss national and is said to have used a 'flammable liquid' to set the carriage on fire

According to website watson.ch, the head of the local police media team said the offender was 'on fire' when he was apprehended, and added he had a 'typical Swiss name'.

Metzger of the St Gallen cantonal police said the attack could be a 'crime of passion', adding: 'A terrorism background still seems very, very far-fetched.'

The train was carrying dozens of passengers and the carriage was reportedly left covered in blood as the wounded were treated at the scene before being taken to hospital.

Reports in Switzerland have suggested that the attack was 'not terror-related'

Police are still establishing the attacker's motive. Switzerland's 20 Minuten newspaper reported on its website that police did not believe the incident was terrorist-related.

It is the latest in a series of similar attacks in Europe over the past month, including a 17-year-old injuring five people with an axe and knife on a train in Wurzburg, Germany, in July.

ISIS claimed responsibility for the attack and later released footage of the 17-year-old axeman, named as Muhammad Riyad, being gunned down by armed police after fleeing the scene.

Police said the offender was 'on fire' when they apprehended him at the station, pictured

Investigators are examining the train and station, pictured, and the offender is said to be in a serious condition himself after being wounded during the attack

The attack took place at around 2.30pm this afternoon near Salez-Sennwald Station (pictured)

A massive contingent of rescue workers rushed to the scene, including police, firefighters, ambulances and three rescue helicopters.

Saint Gallen prosecutors have opened a criminal investigation into the attack.