http://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/newfoundland-labrador/nunatsiavut-appeal-denied-muskrat-falls-1.3766431
181
18
The provincial government has turned down an environmental appeal from the Nunatsiavut government on the Muskrat Falls project.

Nunatsiavut appealed the government's choice to accept Nalcor's human health and assessment plan (HHRAP) for the Lower Churchill project.

It said the plan failed to take into account scientific evidence put forward by the Nunatsiavut Government warning of the effects methylmercury created by the hydroelectric project would have on "the environment and the culture of the Inuit."

Environment Minister Perry Trimper says his decision on methylmercury stands. (Ted Dillon/CBC)

"The decision fails to do what is required, whether in principle or by the Act or Order, to protect the health of the Lake Mellville environment," the appeal read.

It also asked that flooding of the Muskrat Falls reservoir not commence before it has "been fully cleared of trees, vegetation and brush and topsoil."

'My decision stands'

In June the government accepted Nalcor's plan with an condition that "should methylmercury levels reach the Health Canada threshold and consumption advisories be necessary, Nalcor will compensate those affected."

"I have carefully considered the material filed by the NG in support of its August 12th appeal and wish to advise that my decision stands," the response from Environment and Conservation Minister Perry Trimper read.

The minister's response also said the appeal raises many arguments that are outside the scope of the HHRAP and that the appeal "does not contain any technical issues, concerns or criticisms of the HHRAP itself that would suggest the need to revise the original decision."

Muskrat Falls, the site of the Lower Churchill hydro project, is pictured in this undated file photograph. (CBC)

But Trimper says broader issues brought up in the appeal are being addressed.

"These are being examined as part of our ongoing assessment arising from the recently held scientific research workshop," the response read.

Trimper's office would not comment on its decision on Friday saying it had nothing further to add at this time.

The Nunatsiavut Government said its executive council will be meeting early next week in Hopedale to discuss the matter.

Read the full response to the appeal here.