http://www.whio.com/news/crime--law/dayton-police-vehicle-crash-multiple-victim-shooting-are-connected/wVymvBd1yuF08TuggFp9OK/
180
18
Updated: Monday, October 10, 2016 @ 10:52 PM

By: Breaking News Staff

UPDATE @ 10:35 p.m.: Three males believed to have been shot this afternoon at a residence on North Ardmore Avenue and a fourth man police believe was involved all remain in Miami Valley Hospital, Dayton Lt. Mark Ponichtera said.

That fourth man, who crashed his vehicle on West Third Street, remains in the hospital under police guard, the lieutenant said.

The male who was in the house on North Ardmore, which police searched as part of the investigation, has been interviewed and released, Ponichtera said.

UPDATE @ 7:15 p.m.: Dayton police are working to determine what led to a shooting that sent three people to Miami Valley Hospital by private conveyance and a single-vehicle accident where police found the driver crawling out of the wreckage when they arrived, Lt. Mark Ponichtera said.

Two of the people shot at a residence in the 100 block of North Ardmore Avenue are said to be in critical condition and one is in stable condition, the lieutenant said.

The male found at the accident scene, in the 2000 block of West Third Street, “miraculously” suffered injuries that are not believed to be life threatening. Ponichtera said the male from the accident will be detained as a person of interest.

“We do not what his role is at this point,” Ponichtera said. Dayton homicide detectives have taken over the investigation, he said.

A second male, who was in a house on North Ardmore that police searched, is being detained as well. Ponichtera said police believe he is either involved in the shooting or has information about what happened.

The lieutenant said police were dispatched to the accident on West Third about 5:30 p.m. There, an SUV slammed into a tree and ended up on its side after hitting a metal pole. Police shut down Third Street in both directions because of that crash.

Ponichtera said witnesses at the accident told police the SUV had been fleeing from an area a few blocks away where shots had been fired. While police were investigating the accident, they received a report that three gunshot victims had been brought to Miami Valley Hospital by private conveyance, Ponichtera said.

Police soon learned that all three victims had been brought to the hospital in three different vehicles, he said.

We’re hearing police have seized at least one of the vehicles and are looking for another, a white Dodge Ram pickup truck.

“We have no information as to why this shooting occurred,” Ponichtera said.

If you have information about the shooting, you are asked to call the Dayton Police Department at 333-COPS or Miami Valley Crime Stoppers at 222-7867.

UPDATE @ 5:55 p.m.: Dayton police confirm three people have been shot, one critically. It appears the shots were fired in the 100-block of North Ardmore in Dayton.

Police are towing cars in the area of Westwood and Kammer Avenue also.

Dayton police believe a car that crashed in to a tree on West Third minutes before the shooting believe it may be connected to the shooting.

We have a reporter on the scene who will gather more breaking developments.

DOWNLOAD OUR FREE APPS TO STAY ON TOP OF BREAKING NEWS ANYTIME, ANYWHERE.

FIRST REPORT

Dayton police have been called to Miami Valley Hospital where three people arrived in a car, shot, reportedly somewhere in the area of Westwood and Kammer Avenue’s in Dayton.

Police are searching the area for shell casings and investigating the shooting may be related to a traffic crash just minutes earlier.

Stay tuned to this site for more breaking details.