http://www.cbc.bb/index.php/en/news/caribbean-news/item/5067-police-search-for-gunmen-who-killed-five-people-including-three-children
186
18
Prime Minister Andrew Holness Monday described as “gruesome” the murder of five people, including three children, at their home in St. Catherine, on Sunday.

Holness, who along with his Cabinet met with Police Commissioner Dr. Carl Williams to discuss the crime situation in the country.

The update to Cabinet comes as there were several incidents of murders at the weekend and Holness, who heard a presentation from Williams, said he is deeply saddened by the murders that took place, in particular, the incident in March Pen St. Catherine.

“A gruesome crime was committed. The killings must end. The government is now even more resolved to dismantle the gangs and bring those responsible to justice,” he said.

The police said that the gunmen also set the buildings on fire before leaving.

The five victims have been identified as Salesha Evans, 24, her nine-year-old son Revaughn Evans; 22-year-old Venisha Bartley and her two-year-old daughter Koyandra Wynter; and 14-year-old Marvin Campbell Jr.

A 25-year-old man and 14-year-old girl who were injured in the attack are hospitalised at the Spanish Town Hospital.

Police say they believe a relative of the victims, who is wanted on other charges including incest, could assist their investigations. They said the un-named relative, who has until Monday to give himself up, is also wanted in connection with a recent triple murder in the area.

Later as he addressed bankers at an “Anti Money Laundering/Country Financing of Terrorism” forum Monday, Prime Minister Holness said “we must take the profit out of crime.

“Criminals must have no access to the financial system. And where they operate in the informal economy and in the back waters of our country, we must find them and separate them from their illegal gains,” he said, adding that his administration, which came to office in February this year, continues to work with the National Security Council on a crime strategy.

Holness said he was urging Jamaicans to tell what they know to the security forces to help rid the country of criminal elements.