http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/con-artist-jailed-after-stealing-8895726
180
18
Fiona Barnes (55) - a charity fundraiser who stole £24,000 from the disabled children's charity she worked for has been jailed for 15 months

A con artist who stole £24,000 from a disabled kids charity pretended she had cancer to avoid being punished – but now she has been jailed by a judge who saw through her lies.

Shameless Fiona Barnes claimed to have a terminal bowel condition in a bid to evade justice.

But the 55-year-old was sent to prison for 15 months yesterday after it emerged she committed an almost identical crime in 2009.

Barnes stole £30,000 from her employers Social Enterprise Clydebank (SEC) in West Dunbartonshire - then pretended she was dying after getting caught.

But within months of leaving her position she was appointed project manager at the SPACE Centre for autistic children in Preston, Lancs, after giving her name as Fiona Raven.

Julian Hamilton/Daily Mirror The case was heard at Preston Crown court

Between November 2010 and July 2012, Barnes stole £24,730 from the charity, using invoices from contractors to pay large sums into her own bank account, reports the Daily Record .

One invoice from architects Cassidy and Ashton proved to be entirely fraudulent, but was used by Barnes to write herself a cheque for £11,550.

Other cheques were found to have forged signatures and their stubs made out to contractors - who never received the money.

University educated Barnes, from Dunblane, Stirlingshire, was sentenced at Preston Crown Court after pleading guilty to theft and perverting the course of justice.

The court heard that following her initial arrest Barnes was bailed to appear at Preston Magistrates’ Court in September 2013, but claimed she was suffering from stage four bowel cancer and was too ill to travel.

She even produced false medical notes, which stated she was receiving palliative care and chemotherapy.

Recorder David Potter, sentencing, said: “You left their employ in September 2012. The effect that your theft has had on the SPACE Centre can not be understated.

“Those who had employed you, those who had engaged you, those who trusted you, day after day, felt and continue to feel utterly devastated by your rank dishonesty in stealing from that company time and time again.

“When you were arrested by the police in this country in relation to these matters you were then summoned to court.

“Your dishonesty in relation to the theft from Space is compounded by your then deliberate attempt to pervert the course of justice.

Daily Record Space Centre - Preston

You submitted a number of false and doctored letters purporting to be from your medical examiners that suggest you were suffering from stage four cancer; that you were desperately ill, in fact even terminally ill.

“All that was done quite deliberately in order to persuade the authorities in this country to take no action.

“You are a university educated, intelligent woman and a convicted con artist.

“The managers of Space were completely taken in and you abused their trust in a significant way.”

The judge said Barnes’ offending was made worse by the fact she had previously stolen £30,000 from her employers in Scotland - and again claimed to have cancer when she was caught.

She was sentenced to 26 months in prison for the Scottish fraud in March 2014.

In Clydebank she had duped her employers and fellow workers by falsifying invoices and forging various company communications which allowed her to make three bank transactions to accounts set up in the names of several of her relatives.

As Barnes was led to the cells, staff from the SPACE Centre shook their heads at her from the public gallery.