http://www.sfgate.com/news/article/Woman-reports-being-raped-by-stranger-on-Stanford-9609507.php
1822
18
Stanford police investigating report of rape on campus

















Photo: Leah Millis | The Chronicle Image 1 of / 5 Caption Close Image 1 of 5 Students gather outside of the Cecil H. Green Library on the campus of Stanford University June 9, 2016 in Stanford, Calif. University police are investigating a rape that occurred on campus early Friday. Students gather outside of the Cecil H. Green Library on the campus of Stanford University June 9, 2016 in Stanford, Calif. University police are investigating a rape that occurred on campus early Friday. Photo: Leah Millis | The Chronicle Image 2 of 5 Campus view of Hoover Tower at Stanford University,Stanford California USA (Mark Miller photos/Getty Images) Campus view of Hoover Tower at Stanford University,Stanford California USA (Mark Miller photos/Getty Images) Photo: Mark Miller Photos, Getty Images Image 3 of 5 Buy photo An emergency campus phone is seen in the foreground as a student rides past Pigott Hall on the campus of Stanford University June 9, 2016 in Stanford, Calif. An emergency campus phone is seen in the foreground as a student rides past Pigott Hall on the campus of Stanford University June 9, 2016 in Stanford, Calif. Photo: Leah Millis, The Chronicle Buy this photo Image 4 of 5 Buy photo People ride bicycles on the campus of Stanford University June 9, 2016 in Stanford, Calif. People ride bicycles on the campus of Stanford University June 9, 2016 in Stanford, Calif. Photo: Leah Millis, The Chronicle Buy this photo Image 5 of 5 Buy photo A woman runs through the main quad on the campus of Stanford University June 9, 2016 in Stanford, Calif. A woman runs through the main quad on the campus of Stanford University June 9, 2016 in Stanford, Calif. Photo: Leah Millis, The Chronicle Buy this photo Stanford police investigating report of rape on campus 1 / 5 Back to Gallery

Police are investigating a report that a female student was raped in a Stanford University dorm early Friday, campus officials said.

Stanford police received the report about the attack from an unidentified third party, but investigators have not spoken with the victim or identified a suspect in the incident, said Bill Larson, a spokesman for the Stanford Department of Public Safety.

Police on campus put out an alert over the weekend, warning students that a woman was raped in a student dorm on the east side of campus by “a male whom she did not know.” Officials did not release further details about the reported crime.

“Stanford University does not tolerate sexual assault, sexual misconduct, or sexual harassment,” school officials wrote in the alert. “The university encourages anyone who has been sexually assaulted or subjected to other forms of sexual misconduct or harassment to report the incident to university officials.”

News of the reported rape comes amid scrutiny over the prevalence of sexual assaults on college campuses around the country, and the high-profile attack by Brock Turner on the Stanford University campus last year.

Turner, who was convicted of sexual assault, was sentenced to six months in county jail, prompting critics to call the punishment a “slap on the wrist,” and propelling the case into the national spotlight.

The 21-year-old Turner, a former Stanford swimmer, was released after serving half the sentence and moved back to his home state of Ohio, where he registered as a sex offender.

Last week, Gov. Jerry Brown signed two bills inspired by the Turner case, one redefining rape to include some sexual assaults and another ending the state’s 10-year statute of limitations on sex crimes.

Evan Sernoffsky is a San Francisco Chronicle staff writer. Email: esernoffsky@sfchronicle.com Twitter: @EvanSernoffsky