http://www.msn.com/en-za/news/world/guinea-election-violence-has-gone-unpunished-rights-groups/ar-BBxgsiK
1821
18
© Provided by AFP Alpha Condé, President of the Republic of Guinea was re-elected in October 2015 amid opposition claims of vote-rigging and fraud and several days of violent protests

Two leading rights groups published new accounts on Monday of murder and rape by ruling and opposition party supporters during last year's presidential election in Guinea and condemned the authorities for failing to prosecute anyone.

President Alpha Conde was re-elected in October 2015 amid opposition claims of vote-rigging and fraud and several days of violent protests.

On the anniversary of the vote, Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch said the authorities had failed to properly follow up legal complaints related to the deaths of 12 people, several rapes, and widespread looting.

"The government has neither investigated any of these cases in depth, nor brought any suspects to justice, nor provided effective remedies to the victims, including full reparations," a joint report by the groups said.

In an open letter to Conde, Human Rights Watch and Amnesty called for "concrete and immediate steps to ensure justice."

The new report details allegations including the shooting of a six-year-old child with a firearm used by the security forces, a 20-year-old law student clubbed to death by six policemen, and a young driver killed by a gendarme while walking to his brother's home.

Opposition party mobs also stoned, clubbed and stabbed victims to death with scissors, the report said.

In one sexual assault case, a young woman in a car was stopped at a checkpoint and cornered by opposition members carrying rocks and machetes.

"They forced the driver to run away, commandeered his car and after driving a short distance at least two of them violated her," a witness told Human Rights Watch.

The groups did however salute "meaningful steps" taken by Conde "to ensure better discipline within the security forces and break from Guinea’s history of violence and abuse," a move the UN has also recently saluted.

Ibrahima Beavogui, a spokesman for Guinea's judicial authority, accused the two groups of failing to get the government's view before making the allegations public.

"They say that defending human rights doesn't interest me, but they only have ask to come and discuss with us before publishing these report," he told AFP.

Opposition spokesman Aboubacar Sylla said whatever supporters of Conde's rival Cellou Dalein Diallo had done, they were "petty crimes" compared with government security forces "using live ammunition, conducting raids and looting shops."