http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3832676/Mary-Jo-Buttafuoco-left-disfigured-shot-face-husband-s-teenage-mistress-raising-awareness-facial-paralysis.html
180
18
Buttafouco says she was given her smile back and hopes to raise awareness of facial paralysis conditions with a walkathon

A plastic surgeon saw her on Oprah and offered to treat her facial paralysis

served seven years in prison and became a porn star on

It has been more than 20 years since Mary Jo Buttafouco was propelled into the limelight after she was shot in the face by her husband's teenage lover.

Buttafouco was left disfigured, paralyzed and deaf in her right ear after the shocking attack by Amy Fisher, 17, dubbed the 'Long Island Lolita', at her New York home in May, 1992.

While Fisher was jailed for just seven years, and Buttafouco's husband Joey served four months for statutory rape of the then-minor, Mary Jo was left facing life-changing injuries.

Scroll down for video

Before and after: Mary Jo Buttafouco was left paralyized from the shooting, left, and she is seen after treatment, right

Every time she looked in the mirror, she was reminded of that traumatic attack.

'It was very, very difficult,' she told KTLA. 'When you see somebody, the first thing you notice is their smile, and their face.'

Life began to change for Buttafouco, who still has the bullet lodged in her brain, after she appeared on Oprah in 2005 to talk about the shooting.

Los Angeles plastic surgeon Dr Babak Azizzadeh saw the segment and reached out to the victim offering to help.

'She felt very self-conscious about her looks and had lost much of her self confidence,' the Facial Paralysis Institute said in a statement.

Every time she looked in the mirror, she was reminded of that traumatic attack until she had surgery to repair her face

Other life: Mary Jo stayed married to her husband Joey Buttafouco for 10 years following the shooting until they finally divorced in 2003. They couple is seen here in 1995, left, and 1999, right

The lingering effect of the bullet is a constant pain in her head, similar to a perpetually-compacted wisdom tooth, she told AOL.

The first step was a state-of-the-art face lift on the paralyzed side to give the patient back her smile. Doctors were also able to widen the ear canal which improved her hearing and to prevent future infections.

After dozens of operations, the victim was finally given her smile back.

'I love the results,' Buttafouco said when she returned to Oprah to show off the results - flashing her new smile.

This coming Sunday, both Buttafouco and Dr Azizzadeh are participating in a walkathon in Long Beach to raise awareness for facial paralysis.

The 59-year-old became an unwilling part of a national sensation when Amy Fisher, then 17, shot her on the doorstep of her Long Island, New York, home in 1992.

Fisher began an affair with Mary Jo's husband Joey Buttafouco, after she took her car to his body shop in Long Island and asked him to fix it without her family finding out. She was 16 and an affair ensued.

On May 19, 1992, Fisher drove to Mary Jo's house and confronted her on her doorstep. When Mary Jo turned away, Fisher pulled out a gun and shot her.

Lolita to porn star: Amy Fisher served seven years in prison after she admitted to shooting Mary Jo. After her release, three children and a failed marriage, Fisher started stripping and acting in adult films

She then fled the scene.

After she was arrested, she pleaded guilty to second-degree assault. She served seven years in prison and was released in 1999.

Fisher, now 40 and divorced with three children, became a porn star in 2007 after several plastic surgeries, including breast enhancement.

She has since moved to Florida to work as a a stripper.

Mary Jo didn't divorce Joey until 2003 - though at that point they were living in different cities and each had separate romantic relationships.

She wrote a book about her experience in 2009 titled: 'Getting It Through My Thick Skull: Why I Stayed, What I Learned, and What Millions of People Involved with Sociopaths Need to Know.'

In 2012, Mary Jo Buttafouco married Stu Tendler, a Las Vegas print shop manager, in an elegant Las Vegas ceremony.