http://indianexpress.com/article/india/india-news-india/nashik-5-year-old-rape-community-sticker-vehicle-ban-maratha-dalit-3077554/
180
18
Police have been deployed in Talegaon area. Source: Rashmi Rajput Police have been deployed in Talegaon area. Source: Rashmi Rajput

FINDING a pattern behind Sunday’s arson when vehicles which had stickers of icons from both Maratha and Dalit communities on them were identified and torched, the Nashik police have written to the traffic department seeking action against those who paste such stickers on their vehicles. This to ensure that if violence breaks out in future, the identities of individuals would not be exposed, police said.

“In Sunday’s episode, we found that all the seven private vehicles which were torched were those on which stickers of either Shivaji Maharaj or Babasaheb Ambedkar or Jai Bhim emblem were affixed. Taking note of this, we have written to the traffic police asking them to take action against the vehicle owners. Traffic rules do not permit a motorist to paste any sticker on his vehicle which gives away his ethnic identity. So an action against such errant motorists will be taken under the available provision of the laws,” a senior police officer told The Indian Express.

Sources added that the issue was also brought to the notice of the Nashik City Police Commissioner Ravindra Singhal at a peace meeting held by the police chief on Monday.

Meanwhile, the Nashik police have so far arrested 14 people in connection with Sunday’s arson.

“Other than the arrests, preventive detentions of members from both the communities have also been made,” the official said.

The Trimbakeshwar police have also registered three cases of rioting, arson and damage to public property against unknown people. “We are trying to identify the miscreants who set the vehicles, including four state transport buses, ablaze,” the official said.

Violence broke out in Nashik and adjoining Trimbakeshwar town after a five-year-old girl was sexually abused allegedly by a teenager of Talegaon village off the nashik Trimbakeshwar Highway on Saturday evening.

While normalcy has returned to Talegaon, at least, eight to 10 Dalit families, including that of the accused, have fled the village fearing a backlash.

Meanwhile, the two-day mobile-internet ban will be lifted on Wednesday morning. S P Yadav, Additional Director General of Police, Law and Order, Maharashtra Police confirmed that the suspension of services would be revoked by Wednesday morning.

The ban was imposed after the police found that fake posts were circulated on various WhatsApp groups to fuel violence. Police claimed that various App-based messenger services were also used to incite people to participate in the protests in large numbers which led to crippling of services on Mumbai-Agra National Highway on Sunday.

Officials at the State Police Headquarters in Mumbai told The Indian Express that all district superintendents and commissionarates have been told to conduct peace meets with members of both the communities to calm nerves. “We believe dialogue is the best way to deal with the current crisis. Any case which involves members from both the communities has the potential of snowballing into a law and order problem but if meetings are regularly held, issues that bother the communities could be brought to the notice of the police and could be dealt in an effective manner,” said an official from the Director General of Police’s office.