https://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/right-turn/wp/2016/10/11/the-way-forward-for-morose-republicans/
181
18
New Mexico Gov. Susana Martinez speaks to third-graders at Hubert Humphrey Elementary in Albuquerque about a new summer reading challenge on Monday. (Russell Contreras/Associated Press)

In a year the GOP should have retaken the White House, it is now behind in the presidential race by a virtually insurmountable margin. Its unhinged nominee spends his time attacking House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (“Our very weak and ineffective leader, Paul Ryan, had a bad conference call where his members went wild at his disloyalty”) and declaring: “It is so nice that the shackles have been taken off me and I can now fight for America the way I want to.” It is not clear which shackles he has had on, or which he is shedding. The ones labeled “fundamental decency” were taken off long ago. Maybe the “pretense of sanity” shackles are now going by the wayside. Yes, this is the personal meltdown that the #NeverTrump forces predicted.

The White House is gone. The Senate majority is likely to go. Maybe the House will fall. Is there any good news for Republicans? I suppose that depends on the definition of “Republicans.” Let’s assume it is Republicans who understood early on that Trump was a disaster and would have voted (or did vote) for practically any other alternative. Well, the glass is not exactly half-full, but here is the positive news.

First, the right-wing echo chamber is exposed as a dark, twisted and irrational place, unrepresentative of anything close to a majority of Americans. The Trump campaign is now a right-wing talk show, a never-ending episode of “Hannity.” Republicans understand these people — Rush Limbaugh, Ann Coulter, Laura Ingraham, the anti-immigrant voices, the conspiratorialists — have to be banished or abandoned just as surely as the John Birchers (with whom they have a lot in common). (The silly sycophants such as Hugh Hewitt can simply be ignored henceforth.) Fox News has to stop shoveling nonsense or lose the under-68-year-old set. If the echo-chamber monitors and their devoted audience won’t leave, the rest of what was the GOP has to go and try to organize the sane center-right. A close election would not perhaps have had such an effect. This dumpster fire may.

Second, as much as many Republicans are reluctant to admit there has been a deep strain of misogyny and racism on the right, there is little denying it now. It’s evident in the birthers and the irrational opposition to immigration. It is why many believe there must be a new party that repudiates those sentiments. They have been exposed and now they must be excised. There is a reason the GOP has been losing elections; it has become inaccessible to women, minorities, millennials, urban dwellers and college-educated voters.

Third, Reince Priebus, Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Tex.) and a slew of conservative ringleaders of out-of-touch right-wing groups have been exposed — and found to be politically incompetent and soulless. The purpose of politics is winning; they don’t know how. They led to the party’s ruin. Now they can be tossed overboard.

The evangelical Christians who have had a grip on the presidential nominating system especially in early states has been disgraced. Ralph Reed this week went to Liberty University, whose leader, Jerry Falwell Jr., championed a hateful candidate who embodies everything Christians were supposed to oppose. Reed proclaimed:

Some, including brothers and sisters in the faith, point to the recently unearthed comments by Donald Trump in a 2005 interview in which he made demeaning comments about women as evidence confirming this argument. Those eleven-year-old comments were offensive and inappropriate. As a father of two daughters, including one who is with me here today, I did not appreciate them. I am glad that Mr. Trump has apologized for them. As a Christian, I believe, as the apostle Paul wrote to Timothy, that we should treat older women as our mothers and younger women as our sisters, in all purity. I also believe that someone who is faithful in small things will be faithful in large things, and one who is unfaithful in small things will be unfaithful in larger things. As Secretary of State, Trump’s opponent set up a home-brewed email server and, according to the FBI, was careless and negligent in handling classified material.

That’s a religious abomination and a political disaster. “Clinton has done bad things too” is the sort of amoral argument knaves and con men use to disguise their offenses. You’d get better moral advice from a fortune cookie than from this crowd. On the political front, he insists: “Donald Trump has released a list of 20 outstanding conservative jurists who would likely form the top candidates to replace the late Antonin Scalia on the Supreme Court, as well as fill future vacancies. No nominee of either party has ever released such a list prior to the election.” Really, you take his word on that, Mr. Reed? I thought “someone who is faithful in small things will be faithful in large things, and one who is unfaithful in small things will be unfaithful in larger things.” Anyone who courts this clique is a fool. (By the way, a home server is not in the same moral universe as sexual assault.)

So the right is afflicted with an insane media bubble; misogyny and racism; and rotten leadership. That’s the good news? Yup. There is no choice at this point but to go forward, and in a different direction.

A smart reader asks: “What are the groups and the likely initial and potential long-term numbers that would be drawn to and that would support a new GOP or center-right conservative party? Where would the deplorables go?”

To begin with, we think many voters really are “redeemable,” meaning if offered better ideas and leadership, they’d seize it. Second, some of the problem is generational. As we have observed, millennials are more informed, tolerant and economically savvy than their elders.

However, going forward the alternative to the Democratic Party has to offer an alternative to a broader cross-section of Americans, both in ideology and demography. The cross-section must include the very people Trump has chased away — women, minorities, millennials, urban dwellers and college-educated voters. The center-right cannot win with the Trumpkins’ baggage; it will have to win without it and without them. That means going where the voters are.

We know the successful model — and the pols who succeed in offering it. Ohio Gov. John Kasich, Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan, New Mexico Gov. Susana Martinez and former Indiana governor Mitch Daniels are among those who never endorsed Trump and have won and governed successfully in purple and blue states. They are problem-solvers. They are inclusive. They are ethically sound, normal people. They understand government is not evil but needs reforms. They understand international leadership and economic competitiveness have to be at the top of the agenda. This is not a matter purely of ideology. Sen. Rob Portman (R-Ohio) is much more conservative than, say, Hogan. Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.), another #NeverTrumper, is much more conservative than Gov. Charlie Baker of Massachusetts. But Flake will come out smelling like a rose, and Portman is going to win handily in a state the GOP will need to win in future presidential races.

That’s the way forward. Understand, however, that with a united Democratic Party and a right in disarray for some time, Democrats will win a lot of elections for a while. That’s what happens when one party blows itself up. The question is whether what replaces it can be better and more successful. We will find out.