http://www.philstar.com/metro/2016/10/19/1635033/10-more-drug-suspects-slain
190
19
MANILA, Philippines – At least 10 persons believed to be involved in the illegal drug trade were killed in Metro Manila since Monday night.

In Calooocan City, three drug suspects were slain in separate incidents.

Jessie Arceo and his brother, Joje, were “neutralized” by anti-drug police officers in their house in Green Valley, Barangay 178 shortly before midnight Monday, said city police chief investigator Senior Inspector Ilustre Mendoza.

Two improvised weapons and drug paraphernalia were recovered in the suspects’ house.

Also in Caloocan, unidentified assailants on a motorcycle gunned down Conrado Marcos at the corner of San Miguel and Juan Felipe streets at around 10 p.m. Monday.

Mendoza said Marcos was on the police drug watchlist.

Nation ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1

In Manila, alleged pushers Virgilio Albay, 47, and “Commando” were shot dead in a sting at a vacant lot on Vision street in Sta. Cruz at around 2 a.m. yesterday.

Senior Police Officer 2 John Charles Duran said the drug deal was consummated but Albay drew his gun after sensing he was transacting with a policeman.

Investigators recovered sachets of marijuana and two .38 caliber revolvers, allegedly owned by the suspects, at the scene.

In Parañaque, unidentified motorcycle-riding assailants killed two suspected pushers in separate attacks before midnight Monday.

The first victim, identified only as Petrus, was shot dead outside a store in Barangay Tambo at around 10 p.m.

An hour later, jeepney barker Edwin Alon-alon, 36, was gunned down at the corner of Quirino Avenue and Airport Road in Baclaran. The assailants placed a cardboard sign identifying the victim as a pusher.

Investigators said they recovered sachets said to contain shabu from the two men.

In Pasig, alleged pusher John Patrick Marcelo, 24, was shot dead while his partner Juvilyn Mupan was wounded in a gun attack by two motorcycle-riding men Monday night.

Marcelo was categorized as a pusher and user in Barangay Caniogan’s drug watchlist, said Chief Superintendent Romulo Sapitula, Eastern Police District director.

Also in Pasig, former traffic enforcer Jerry Malicdem, fired by the city government last month for drug use, was shot by four armed men yesterday.

Jerry Malicdem, 33, is fighting for his life at the Rizal Medical Center.

Sapitula said Malicdem is on Barangay Caniogan’s drug watchlist.

After he was fired, Malicdem resorted to selling food in front of his house to support his family. Police said he was preparing his merchandise at around noon when he was attacked.

In Marikina City, alleged pusher Lester Vince Sacabon, alias Boy Demonyo, was shot dead by motorcycle-riding assailants at the corner of Langka and Kasoy streets in Libis Bulelak, Barangay Malanday at around 7:20 p.m. Monday. – Rey Galupo, Non Alquitran, Perseus Echeminada