http://freerepublic.com/focus/f-chat/3480650/posts
193
19
Skip to comments.

Video Captures Moment Great White Shark Breaks Open Cage With Diver Inside

Yahoo ^ | 14 Oct 2016 | DAVID CAPLAN and MATTHEW STONE

Posted on by DUMBGRUNT

"On a recent great white shark cage diving trip we experienced a very rare event, a shark breaching the side of the cage,"

The man shot the video last week off the coast of Mexico's Guadalupe Island.

In the video, the shark smashes through a diving cage and leaps out the top -- with a diver inside.



(Excerpt) Read more at gma.yahoo.com ...

TOPICS:

Chit/Chat

Pets/Animals

KEYWORDS:

badwelds

Cage design by the best structural engineers and assembled by Mexico's best certified weldors! What could ever go wrong? That shark was unusually strong!



To: DUMBGRUNT

Bringing a new meaning to the term “wet” suit!



To: DUMBGRUNT

“Is there anybody in the cage?” WTF? They don’t know? And then Voila! Sure nuff! There was a guy in the cage. thing is, it looks like he has a full mask and scuba mouth gear but, where is his O2? I don’t see a re-breather...



by 3 posted onby Vendome (Don't take life so seriously-you won't live through it anyway - "Enjoy Yourself" ala Louis Prima)

To: DUMBGRUNT

Direct link to YouTube video: https://youtu.be/93WiSq9TIoM



To: Vendome

The shark’s last words. Thanks for bringing me a box lunch. Tasted like chicken.



To: MadMax, the Grinning Reaper

LOL



by 6 posted onby Vendome (Don't take life so seriously-you won't live through it anyway - "Enjoy Yourself" ala Louis Prima)

To: DUMBGRUNT

wow guy was lucky. I was chased out years ago at Point Sur, California( 1973). A couple weeks later a surfer from Oregon got nailed by alleged same shark estimated to be between 15-18 feet long. Don’t think looking for sharks inside a cage while chumming the waters is very smart. I’m sure Darwin would be happy about this.



by 7 posted onby Karliner (Jeremiah29:11,Romans8:28 Isa 17, Damascus has fallen)

To: DUMBGRUNT

Didn’t the shark do that in Jaws also?



To: DUMBGRUNT

I don’t think the beSt designed this cage



To: Vendome

They don’t know if he is still in the cage



To: Vendome

Sometimes called Hookah diving.

Also called air line diving.

A hose supply’s the air.



by 11 posted onby DUMBGRUNT (Looks like it's pretty hairy.)

To: Vendome

Did you not see the airhose?



To: DUMBGRUNT

Note to self - next time when diving with sharks, make sure cage is American-made



To: DUMBGRUNT

Neil Cavuto kept showing this clip and saying the shark was the media and the unharmed diver was Trump, LOL.



To: TexasGator

Poor design and crap welding.

Also the salt water may have attacked the welds?



by 15 posted onby DUMBGRUNT (Looks like it's pretty hairy.)

To: TexasGator

I did but, thought it went over his back. Makes sense, as it would give him more room but, more importantly, allow him to stay in the water for longer periods. That is, if he isn’t disemboweled of his breakfast....



by 16 posted onby Vendome (Don't take life so seriously-you won't live through it anyway - "Enjoy Yourself" ala Louis Prima)

To: Vendome

Air hose from the surface. Think they call it SNUBA.



To: doorgunner69

Hey, backwards that speils ABUNS.... Amazing!!!



by 18 posted onby Vendome (Don't take life so seriously-you won't live through it anyway - "Enjoy Yourself" ala Louis Prima)

To: PGR88

make sure cage is American-made Also welds to be X-rayed 100%, and cage designer and welder to be in cage with me! Why do you always dive with a buddy?

50% chance the shark eats your buddy! Also. no need to out swim the shark! Only your buddy!



by 19 posted onby DUMBGRUNT (Looks like it's pretty hairy.)

To: DUMBGRUNT

best line in the whole video: “Are You OK????” Oh My!



To: DUMBGRUNT

The shark seemed to fear the diver.



by 21 posted onby 353FMG (TRUMP IS ALL THAT MATTERS)

To: DUMBGRUNT





by 22 posted onby grey_whiskers (The opinions are solely those of the author and are subject to change without notice.)

To: the_Watchman

I hope it was a brown wet suit.



by 23 posted onby MortMan (Moderate muslims, please identify the specific prohibitions against violent jihad in the koran.)

To: DUMBGRUNT

I’ll bet they weren’t using the good duct tape.



by 24 posted onby blueunicorn6 ("A crack shot and a good dancer")

To: blueunicorn6

Having used duct tape for more than a few undocumented applications,

but I try to avoid the mission critical life dependent uses, when it is my life! You have a compound fracture of the femur?

Not to worry we got the 100 MPH tape!

The femoral artery? We’ll give it some extra tape!

And you can hump your own pack out!



by 25 posted onby DUMBGRUNT (Looks like it's pretty hairy.)

To: DUMBGRUNT

What about the shark? Who looks out for sharks? Well, we do. That’s right, the Sharks Have Interests Too organization is dedicated to helping get out the word on shark interests. Join us today!



by 26 posted onby blueunicorn6 ("A crack shot and a good dancer")

To: blueunicorn6

the Sharks Have Interests Too organization With this event, I have ask if they are somehow related to the old 'Society for Brain Damaged Weldors'?



by 27 posted onby DUMBGRUNT (Looks like it's pretty hairy.)

To: DUMBGRUNT

I’m sorry. I was being a wise guy. Take the first letter of each word.



by 28 posted onby blueunicorn6 ("A crack shot and a good dancer")

To: blueunicorn6

Got to have fun!

Society for Brain Damaged Weldors, was from “Steambath”.

Everyone remembers Valerie Perrine, and nothing else! Yes, the dancing queers were fun.



by 29 posted onby DUMBGRUNT (Looks like it's pretty hairy.)

To: Vendome

He was a shape shifter. He turned himself into a mouse and hid in the bottom corner. That’s why it took him a minute to come up. He had to return to natural size.



To: DUMBGRUNT

Damn, I didn’t know it was a Good Morning America link. Now I need to go take an unplanned shower.



by 31 posted onby KevinB (Barack Obama: Our first black, gay, Kenyan, Socialist, Muslim president!)

To: dr_lew

You a funny guy.... Does explain why it took him so long



by 32 posted onby Vendome (Don't take life so seriously-you won't live through it anyway - "Enjoy Yourself" ala Louis Prima)

Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works.

FreeRepublic , LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794

FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson