http://en.farsnews.com/newstext.aspx?nn=13950724000381
190
19
World

Arab Analyst: Britain Seeking to Rescue S. Arabia from Yemen Quagmire through Ceasefire Plan

TEHRAN (FNA)- Abdel Bari Atwan, the editor-in-chief of Rai al-Youm newspaper, said the British-sponsored ceasefire plan is a desperate attempt to help Riyadh get rid of the quagmire of Yemen.

"By sponsoring the resolution, the British officials want to save Saudi Arabia from the 18-month-long Yemen quagmire," Atwan wrote on Saturday.

Noting that the Yemenis' missile attack on the UAE warship, and the missile strikes on a US warship by an unknown party, is another reason for the British presentation of the ceasefire resolution, he said that London and its allies have come to the conclusion that Russia and Iran as two regional heavyweights with extreme clout will soon focus on Yemen and take control of the two strategic Straits of Hormuz and Bab al-Mandab. Hence, the western powers are seeking to prevent such a shift of focus, he said.

London announced that it would present a draft UN Security Council resolution, calling for an immediate ceasefire in Yemen following last week’s deadly raid on a funeral. Yet, Britain said it is not suspending arms sales to Saudi Arabia, which is involved in the conflict.

“We have decided to put forward a draft Security Council resolution on Yemen calling for an immediate cessation of hostilities and a resumption of the political process,” British Ambassador Matthew Rycroft told reporters in New York.

The resolution will also focus on delivering humanitarian aid to the war-torn country following the escalation in violence after the breakdown of peace talks in August. The draft text is expected to be circulated among the council’s 15 members in coming days.

The British initiative follows one of the deadliest air strikes of the conflict by the Saudi-led coalition, which hit a funeral service in Sana’a last week, killing over 200 people and injuring more than 600 mourners.

The British draft proposal also comes after Russia blocked a statement drafted by Britain that condemned the air strike. Russian Ambassador Vitaly Churkin said it was “wishy-washy,” as he urged the UNSC members to do “some very serious thinking” on how to halt violence in Yemen.