http://aninews.in/newsdetail-NHZ0ZUtF/Mjc2NjI0dnRlS0U/pak-still-continues-its-policy-of-harbouring-terrorists-says-bangladesh-minister.html
190
19
Pak still continues its policy of harbouring terrorists, says Bangladesh Minister Updated: Aug 19, 2016 18:16 IST

New Delhi, Aug. 19 ( ANI ): Asserting that Pakistan has time and again been involved with domestic terrorist networks, Bangladesh Information Ministeron Friday said Islamabad still continues with its policy of harboring terrorists, adding that it is very sad development associated with the South Asian region.

Inu, who is currently on an official visit to India, told ANI , "Pakistan from the days of liberation was aggressive. They were involved in war crimes and atrocities. So after that, for the long 45 years, Pakistan has not changed much. Though we have developed diplomatic relations and we are part of the SAARC process. In spite of the member of SAARC countries, Pakistan was time and again involved illegally with our domestic terrorist networks."

He said that this was the reason why Bangladeshi authorities had to asked Pakistani authorities to withdraw certain diplomats from Bangladesh.

"We think thatis still continuing a policy of harboring terrorism, that is very sad for the subcontinent," he added.

On the progress of investigation to the recent terror attacks in his country, he said, "The status of Gulshan and Sholakia attacks is that we have unearthed and found what organization they belong to, and what we have found is that belong to a domestic organization of the Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh(JMB) and there is no connection with any foreign terrorist network whatsoever."

He added the Gulshan and Sholakia attacks were totally planned and executed by home grown terrorist networks.

The deadly attack last month killed 20 people, including nine Italians, seven Japanese, one Indian, one Bangladeshi American and two Bangladeshis at Holey Artisan Bakery in Gulshan, after assailants stormed the cafe and took people hostage.

The 12-hour-long hostage crisis at the cafe ended after a two-hour long assault by armed forces' commandos killing six gunmen.

The Sholakia attack came days after when three suspected assailants attacked the Eidgah where thousands had gathered to offer Eid prayers. ( ANI