https://www.yahoo.com/news/sitrep-exclusive-embattled-navy-officer-115332493.html
130
13
Tough choices: When his small riverine craft was surrounded by armed Iranian boats in the Persian Gulf earlier this year, the U.S. Navy’s Lt. David Nartker faced a stark choice: shoot his way out, potentially igniting a war with Tehran, or trust that the Iranians wouldn’t kill his crew. He chose to stand down.

In an exclusive interview with Foreign Policy’s Dan De Luce, Nartker strongly defended his role in the Jan. 12 incident, arguing that he safeguarded the lives of his crew, adding, “I 110 percent believe I would be in Fort Leavenworth right now if I had ordered to fire on the Iranians.”

De Luce writes, “speaking publicly for the first time about the case, Nartker offered an alternative narrative to the one painted by the U.S. Navy, which has reprimanded him for ‘dereliction of duty.’ He described a harrowing confrontation near Farsi Island as two Iranian vessels equipped with machine guns encircled his riverine boats. He said he had only seconds to decide whether to order his crew to open fire or to look for a way out of the showdown.”

Early on, Nartker thought about aiming his M4 assault rifle at a Iranian gunner only about 10 feet away. “I know I could have hit that guy and killed him,” he said. But he ruled it out. “I was thinking, ‘I am not going to kill this guy right now over a bullshit navigation mistake,’” he said. “There would be a dead Iranian in Iranian waters. And there was no way to claim it was international waters.”

Syrian ceasefire. At least 90 people were killed in airstrikes that rained down on rebel-held areas of northwestern Syria on Saturday and Sunday in a bombing campaign carried about by Syrian and Russian jets hours before a new ceasefire takes effect at sundown Monday.

That marker kicks of a critical seven-day window where rebel groups need to start separating themselves from the Syria Conquest Front (formerly Nusra Front), or risk being targeted by American and Russian planes. The deal is part of the ceasefire hammered out by Washington and Moscow that would ground the Syrian air force for a week to allow humanitarian supplies to finally begin to flow into besieged cities like Aleppo. If the ceasefire holds by next weekend, the U.S. and Russia will begin coordinating strikes on Syria Conquest fighters. Few in Washington think the deal will hold, however.

Scores of rebel groups are intertwined with Nusra across Syria’s north in a complex series of local alliances that will make it difficult to pull them apart cleanly. Mostafa Mahamed, the director of foreign media relations for Syria Conquest Front, told the Wall Street Journal in a statement that that his group had the support of “numerous groups on the ground,” and “we expect a united stance of all major players in Syria against this deal…make no mistake about it. The U.S. and Russia have agreed to end this revolution.”

More nukes tests? “Assessment by South Korean and U.S. intelligence is that the North is always ready for an additional nuclear test,” South Korean Defense Ministry spokesman Moon Sang-gyun said on Monday. Friday’s nuclear test — the North’s largest ever — reinforced fears in Washington and across Asia that Pyongyang’s military advances could soon outpace the missile defense systems the United States and its regional allies have built up over the last decade, FP’s Paul McLeary and Dan De Luce write.

Experts and former officials told FP that Washington and its Asian allies “could be in danger of falling behind as North Korea builds longer-range and increasingly reliable missiles that expand its potential reach,” and threaten to overwhelm expensive, and untested missile-defense systems.

More sanctions, more frustrations. Following Friday’s tests, President Barack Obama pledged to unleash a new round of sanctions on Pyongyang, but as FP’s John Hudson and David Francis point out, decades of economic punishments have done nothing to stop the North so far, and experts they spoke to said they don’t see more sanctions making much of a difference. “No amount of sanctions will stop North Korea,” Jae Ku, the director of the U.S.-Korea Institute at Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies, told Foreign Policy. “Nuclear weapons are their sole survival strategy.”

Good morning and as always, if you have any thoughts, announcements, tips, or national security-related events to share, please pass them along to SitRep HQ. Best way is to send them to: paul.mcleary@foreignpolicy.com or on Twitter: @paulmcleary or @arawnsley