http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/female-terror-suspect-accused-paris-8802376
192
19
A female jihadi suspected of a plot to blow up one of Paris's mainline stations , was engaged to TWO murderous ISIS soldiers before they were killed.

Identified only as Sarah H, the 23-year-old woman had been due to wed Larossi Aballa, 25, who killed a policeman before being killed in Magnanville, 20 miles west of Paris, in June.

An all-woman ISIS cell was "guided from Syria" and "ready to die" as it tried to carry out terrorist attacks in Paris including blowing up a mainline station, the city’s prosecutor said today.

Francois Molins described the operatives as a ‘determined commando unit’ who could have brought carnage to the city.

Reuters The dramatic moment when a woman believed to be one of the terror suspects was taken away by police

After Aballa died, Sarah H was engaged to Adel Kermich, a 19-year-old who murdered a Catholic priest in Normandy in July, before he too was gunned down.

On Thursday, Sarah H watched one of her accomplices, 19-year-old Ines Mandani, being shot after the cell was tracked down to a flat in Boussy-Saint-Antoine, south of the French capital.

Mandani and Sarah H were involved in a struggle in which an officer was wounded with an eight-inch kitchen knife.

AFP/Getty Images French public prosecutor Francois Molins addresses a press conference

The officer suffered "a left shoulder wound", while Mandani was shot repeatedly before being evacuated to hospital, where her condition was today said to be stable.

Referring to ISIS, Mr Molins told a Paris press conference: "The terrorist organisation uses not only men but women, young women."

It also emerged that the female jihadi cell – the first of its kind in France – had wanted to attack the Gare du Lyon in Paris, which is one of the busiest rail stations in Europe.

Police and officers from the DGSI, France’s counter terrorism intelligence agency, had been on the trail of the trio since Sunday, when a car full of gas cannisters was found parked in Paris.

Video loading Watch next Watch this video again Watch Next Click to play Tap to play The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

There were fears it was going to be used in a terrorist attack on the nearby Notre Dame Cathedral, which Isis has regularly threatened.

The Peugeot 607 belonged to Mandani’s father, and sources close to the case said she and her accomplices, had tried to set it on fire – possibly with a cigarette – before fleeing.

Video loading Watch next Watch this video again Watch Next Click to play Tap to play The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

Mandani was carrying a ‘last testament’ letter in which she swore allegiance to ISIS and pledged to avenge the death of Abu Muhammad al-Adnani, the ‘ISIS spokesman’ killed by a US drone last month.

Phone tapping by the French authorities had also revealed that the three women were planning to attack the Gare du Lyon, along with Boussy-Saint-Antoine station. They also wanted to target police officers.

The two older women – the third one is 39 – were today being questioned in a high security police station in Paris, while Mandani is expected to be interviewed when her health improves.

Four other suspects – two brothers and their girlfriends – also remain in custody over the alleged Notre Dame plot.

Reuters The arrest earlier this week

A 34-year-old man and a 29-year-old woman have been held since Tuesday after being caught at a motorway service station close to the southern city of Orange.

The man’s brother and his girlfriend, both aged 26, were arrested late on Wednesday.

There were seven gas canisters inside the Peugeot, and well as three containers full of petrol, which might have been used to set the car on fire.

AP Molins with Director of the Judicial Police, Mireille Ballestrazzi

The Peugeot had no number plate, but forensics experts managed to find DNA belonging to the suspects.

Investigators have spent the past week raiding the homes of anybody who might be linked to them.

Islamic State has threatened Notre Dame as part of its violent campaign against France for sending warplanes to bomb Isis bases in countries including Syria and Iraq.

In May, Patrick Calvar, the head of France’s DGSI internal security agency, said he was confident ISIS would "reach the stage of car bombs".

