http://www.news.com.au/national/south-australia/marcus-stanford-brother-of-stephanie-scott-killer-vincent-stanford-released-from-prison/news-story/56a7b6015f56a0fc93ec76a02be1cd07
193
19
THE twin brother of the man who killed NSW schoolteacher and bride-to-be Stephanie Scott has been released from prison this morning.

Marcus Stanford, 25, was last month jailed for 15 months for disposing of evidence linking his brother to Ms Scott’s murder.

The murderer, Vincent Stanford, mailed Ms Scott’s engagement rings to his brother in the Adelaide Hills, who pawned them for $705.

Before his arrest, Marcus Stanford lived and worked at a flower farm in Forreston, 3km north east of Gumeracha.

Locals in the area are adamant he will not be welcome to return to his former home.

Adelaide's Afternoon Newsbyte 9/9/16 0:56 Magill resident gets a nasty shock. Wild weather floods hospital. Freedom for Marcus Stanford. The demolition of the Port Augusta power station stack. Crows fan confident ahead of tomorrow night. Port's best and fairest

With time already served since his arrest in June last year, Stanford is due to be released today.

It comes after the NSW Director of Public Prosecutions Lloyd Babb SC last week announced he would not be appealing Stanford’s sentence after Premier Mike Baird asked him to review the case.

Mr Babb said he believed there were “no reasonable prospects of success against the inadequacy of the sentence”.

Stanford’s mother still lives in Leeton and it’s not yet known if the state’s parole board will place any conditions or restrictions on his living arrangements.

Stanford’s twin brother, Vincent Stanford, attacked Ms Scott at Leeton High School on Easter Sunday 2015, days before she was due to marry her childhood sweetheart.

The 26-year-old teacher was dragged to a store room, sexually assaulted and stabbed in the neck.

The murderer removed Ms Scott’s engagement ring given to her by fiance Aaron Leeson-Woolley, and a graduation ring from her mother, and sent them with her driver’s licence in an envelope to his brother’s Adelaide address.

Marcus Stanford then sold the rings for $705 at an Adelaide jewellery store and burned the driver’s licence.

Vincent Stanford has admitted raping and murdering Ms Scott and will be sentenced in October.

Home video footage of missing bride-to-be Stephanie Scott 0:19 Home video footage of missing bride-to-be Stephanie Scott