http://mumbaimirror.indiatimes.com/entertainment/bollywood/No-lahore-for-manto/articleshow/54788896.cms
190
19
Indo-Pak tensions prompted Nandita Das to shift location of her next closer home.



Mirror (January 13, 2015) had earlier reported that Saadat Hasan Manto who authored close to 300 short stories, 100 radio plays, numerous essays and film scripts before his untimely death at the age of 42, is the subject of Nandita Das’ next directorial after making her debut with Firaaq in 2008. She has the full support of his three daughters, Nighat, Nuzhat and Nusrat, and other family members who live in Lahore. They have shared many nuggets from his life, not found in books, which have been incorporated into the screenplay.



“Manto is not a typical biopic but will focus on the seven most tumultuous years of his life, from 1946 to 1952. It takes us through his glorious days in ’40s Bombay, the Partition and then his downward spiralling life in Lahore. The repeated obscenity trials made things worse for him, but he continued to be prolific and sharp with his pen. His fight for freedom of expression is all the more relevant today,” Nandita had said earlier.



Mirror has now learnt that Nandita wanted to shoot some portions for the film, featuring Nawazuddin Siddiqui as Manto, in Lahore as the writer had moved from Mumbai (then Bombay) to the newly created Pakistan in January 1948 following the Partition. However, owing to the ongoing Indo-Pak tensions post the Uri attacks on September 18, the actor-director will now shoot these portions in India.



“We all know that Manto spent three-fourth of his life in India but had to leave Bombay, the city he loved, and spent only his last seven years in Lahore. So, to maintain authenticity, we did have plans to shoot in Lahore. But considering the present situation between the two countries, we will need to shoot those portions somewhere in India. We are looking at several options. I have recently returned from a recce in Delhi,” informs Nandita. She had first read stories by Manto in college, and later much of Dastavez, a five-volume collection of his work.



She says, “I have always wanted to make a film on his works, but his essays made me realise that his life was equally stirring and dramatic. Today, I feel equipped, both emotionally and creatively, to tell this story that so needs to be told.”



Nandita earlier shot Deepa Mehta’s 1998 period drama, Earth, which featured Aamir Khan, in Delhi even though it was set in Lahore. She starts rolling with Manto in the third week of December. “After a short break, we will shoot till end of February.



I’m currently busy with the prep and have a million things to put together!” sighs the actressdirector who has co-written the script with Mir Ali Husain who has earlier written Nagesh Kukunoor's Dor.