http://www.thenational.ae/opinion/feedback/super-boring-american-election
190
19
I’m bored of the US election now (Trump condemned for saying he’ll jail Hillary Clinton if he wins US presidency, October 11).

Donald Trump is a total imbecile and Hillary Clinton lacks credibility. Is this is the best the United States has to offer?

Donna Lee-Elliott, US

Many boats lack maintenance

The news item Fire breaks out on Dubai creek boat (October 11) is disturbing. This isn’t the first time a boat has caught fire at the creek.

Some of these wooden boats are in poor condition, making them prone to such risks.

Fatima Suhail, Sharjah

Fed up with the developer

Khalaf Al Habtoor is right to call for an end to off-plan property sales (Off-plan property sales must be stopped, says chairman of Al Habtoor, October 11).

After seven years I am still waiting for my office space in Dubai Silicon Oasis (it was supposed to be completed in two years in 2009).

I don’t understand the business logic behind this. They can finish the construction with their own money and everyone would be more than happy to take delivery of their units. I fear that the money has been diverted to new projects.

Alan S, Dubai

Slap fines on hoax callers

With regard to your story Hoaxes, sick pets and blocked cars: UAE emergency dispatchers’ battle with time wasters (October 8), one solution that comes to my mind is issuing a fine against the phone number that places the non-emergency call.

That will perhaps make people think twice before making such calls.

Monia Rafique, Dubai

Firing at US ship an act of war

The Red Sea incident shows how far down America has fallen under the Obama administration (Houthi rebels in Yemen fire missiles at US warship, October 11).

Under Admirality-Maritime Law, firing on a ship is an act of war. It would have been easy for this ship to chart a reverse course of those attacking missiles and obliterate the enemies.

Steven Davis, US

May God bless my fellow sailors and military personnel who are involved in this mission. They have unselfishly put their lives at stake to protect the world at this time.

Monia Rafique, US

Why should anyone believe what the US reports about its warships? If the Pentagon could spend $500 million (Dh1.8 billion) on fake extremist videos, how can one be sure that it won’t do this to fuel American sentiment?

Trip Neilly, US

America has no reason to be in those waters. It is adding flames to a fire it never started.

Gilda Morkert, US

How long do you think the US leadership can keep dodging the bullet before it gets hit really hard?

Michael DeForge, UK

Why go abroad for treatment?

Healthy outlook for Thai medical tourism demand (October 10) is a well-written article. However, this country is taking strong and bold steps to establish pioneering institutions such as Cleveland Clinic Abu Dhabi to promote medical tourism on a grander scale.

I feel countries such as Thailand and India are focusing only on the cost factor, while here it’s about quality.

It’s better for people to give priority to quality.

Name withheld by request