https://newyork.cbslocal.com/2016/10/17/jouvert-court-hearing/
190
19
NEW YORK (CBSNewYork) — The mother of the woman who was killed in a shooting at the J’Ouvert festivities last month is speaking out for the first time.

CBS2’s Scott Rapoport reports Vertina Brown, the grief-stricken mother of 22-year-old Tiarah Poyau, shared her pain over the senseless shooting death of her daughter at last month’s festival in Brooklyn.

“What he did was despicable. It is unforgiving. I have no remorse for him,” Brown said.

Reginald Moise, who has been charged in Poyau’s shooting death, returned to court Monday to be arraigned on second-degree murder charges. He pled not guilty.

Police said Moise, 20, opened fired on the crowd celebrating J’Ouvert on Sept. 5, shooting Poyau in the head at the annual pre-dawn festival before the West Indian Day Parade.

Brown remembers getting the news.

“I was told to come to the hospital. I went. She was already gone,” Brown described.

Poyau was a recent college graduate and had just landed her first job.

During the proceedings inside the courtroom, Brown shouted at Moise to “kill yourself.”

“Every mother feels that way. Every mother wants justice for their child,” Brown said.

Brown said her daughter had big dreams. Poyau traveled abroad and was pursuing a master’s degree at St. John’s. She also landed her first job in accounting.

“Before she could start day one she was murdered,” Brown said.

Brown added she didn’t think her daughter would be attending J’Ouvert – an event that’s had its share of trouble – though she had gone before.

“She didn’t like it. Her friend begged her to go. She didn’t want to disappoint her friend,” Brown said. “I believe they should shut it down. If not, put some kind of curfew on it.”

There is no indication that the city plans to do that, but officials said they are looking into what if anything can be done.

Moise’s attorney said his client had nothing to do with Poyau’s death.

Moise faces 25 years to life if found guilty.