http://www.dailymail.co.uk/indiahome/indianews/article-3833211/SRK-unplugged-King-Khan-opens-life-love-entirely-imaginary-sex-tape-Kim-Kardashian.html
190
19
See more news from India at www.dailymail.co.uk/indiahome

Questions included the idea of starring in an imaginary sex tape with Kim

Shah Rukh Khan is known for his wit, and this trait came to fore when the Bollywood superstar took to cyberspace to chat with fans on social media on Tuesday.

Reveling in the festive spirit of Dusshera, SRK let his hair down and opened up on all sorts of queries coming from fans - from candid talk of his son’s girlfriends to the idea of starring in an imaginary Kim Kardashian sex tape.

The session #AskSRK naturally became a trending topic.

Shah Rukh Khan is known for his wit, and this trait came to fore when the Bollywood superstar took to cyberspace to chat with fans on social media

The superstar, who is currently in Europe shooting for Imtiaz Ali’s next film, The Ring, did not mind compromising on sleep to interact with fans.

While on the fantasy Kardashian tape question, it was among the most mischievous tweets and it came from @jangir36.

“Will you accept if @KimKardashian offers you to be part of her next sex tape? (sic)” wrote Jangir.

Shah Rukh retweeted Jangir’s post and replied: “Ha ha. This is a first!! (sic)”

Mischievous: A jokey question asked SRK if he would be part of a sex tape with Kardashian

He was more on form answering @Sreelakshmi97’ s question. “Do you know about aryans gfs? (sic)” she asked.

“We keep our girlfriends to ourselves!!! (sic)” replied @iamsrk.

The subject of Salman Khan is bound to crop up in any interaction involving SRK. At this interactive session, though, the questions coming in were mostly humorous.

"Y it is always d guys wil lyk @BeingSalmanKhan d most and girls @iamsrk!? (sic)” asked @MchArmiNgprInce, wondering why Salman was popular among boys while SRK was loved more by the girls.

Twitter users had a field day asking SRK silly questions and making propositions

“Between the two of us we have it all! (sic)” quipped SRK in reply. Propositions were cleverly averted, too.

“Can I have a party night with u baby, (sic)” wrote ?@imrishabh555, to which @iamsrk replied: “Maybe on the night I don’t have a headache. (sic)”

One user even suggested SRK would be a good Kardashian family member

A few fans tried making physical advances, too. @AlekhandraKhan, for instance, wrote: “I want to bite your lips! can I?? (sic)” SRK on his part was at his wittiest best.

“No I haven’t brushed my teeth yet! (sic)” he tweeted back. For all his cheeky banter, though, Shah Rukh cut a coy picture when it came to affairs of the heart.

Questions ranged from the personal to the plain silly (above)

Asked about tips on love, he hit surrender mode. “Meri ex girlfriend ko phir se kaise patao? M sorry for what I have done to her. Help needed please! (sic)” wrote @ankitsuman2.

“Bhai main real life mein ladkiyon ke maamle mein thoda kamzor hoon. Sorry u will have to figure it out urself,” wrote @iamsrk.

The tweet chat session was originally intended to run for 15 minutes but went on for much longer.

The session also saw SRK answer questions related to Akshay Kumar, his experience of working with Alia Bhatt and Imtiaz Ali in various upcoming films, and giving birthday greetings to Amitabh Bachchan.

Bachchan skirts Pakistan actors issue on his 74th Birthday

Birthday press conference: Bachchan

Megastar Amitabh Bachchan, who turned 74 on Tuesday, said it was time for people to express solidarity with Indian soldiers when they are coming under terror attacks that has incensed the country.

Bachchan said this during a press conference on the occasion of his birthday when asked if Bollywood is divided over supporting Pakistani artistes working in India, amid the demand for their ban after the Uri terror attack. Bachchan also said he respects all artistes.

“With folded hands I request you that this is not the time and I don’t think it is right to put forward these questions,” said Bachchan, who was dubbed India’s first angry young man for his on-screen roles in Bollywood.

Bachchan: 'Solidarity with Indian soldiers'

He felt that considering the grave situation at the border one should express solidarity with Indian soldiers.

“Who said what and why, where and how, this is not the time for it.

"The nation is incensed, the people of this country are very angry by the incidents that are happening at our border.

"I think it is time to express solidarity with our jawans, armed forces who are sacrificing their life so that you and me can be safe now. That’s what needs to be put in question and nothing else."