http://www.news.com.au/national/nsw-act/crime/alleged-umina-crash-driver-is-boyfriend-of-woman-who-allegedly-smoked-five-bongs-before-separate-fatal-crash-last-month/news-story/f9b0b9813020478d8ab075fb3d1d208a
190
19
Video

Image Car crashes into pole, brings down powerlines in Umina 0:45 A car has crashed into a pole in Umina, bringing down several powerlines

Laura Banks and Richard Noone Central Coast Gosford Express Advocate

THE alleged driver of a car involved in a spectacular NSW Central Coast crash is the boyfriend of the woman who allegedly smoked five marijuana “bongs” before killing a nurse in a separate smash last month.

Police believe Stuart Reeves, 21, was behind the wheel of a Ford Falcon sedan when it slammed into a power pole on Ryans Rd, Umina Beach, about 9.30pm on Sunday.

The fiery crash pulled so much force that an imprint of the car’s numberplate was left on the wooden pole, and the surrounding streets were plunged into darkness.

Zak Rowe, a 17-year-old passenger, suffered critical head injuries and was flown to John Hunter Hospital, while a 29-year-old man was taken to Gosford Hospital with minor injuries, along with Reeves.

It is understood that Reeves is unlicensed and that the car belonged to Mr Rowe, who had purchased it only hours earlier.

The Daily Telegraph can reveal that Reeves is the boyfriend of 20-year-old Bianca Harrington who remains behind bars charged with dangerous and negligent driving occasioning death.

Police have alleged that Harrington, a suspended L-plate driver, was behind the wheel of her father’s Holden Commodore when it ploughed into a car at North Gosford on September 3, killing nurse Kay Maria Shaylor, 62.

A court has previously heard that Harrington, a mother of an infant daughter, told police she had consumed five bongs before taking to the wheel. She had allegedly planned to drive from Sydney to the Central Coast.

Sensationally, a woman who held the hand of Ms Shaylor after the fatal crash was later charged with stealing her credit cards and going on a shopping spree.

Silvia Schreuder is facing five counts of dishonestly obtaining financial advantage by deception and larceny after allegedly helping emergency workers and then 50 minutes later bought a trolley load of groceries at Woolworths using Ms Shaylor’s stolen credit card.

Schreuder then allegedly went on a three-day shopping spree, buying alcohol, cigarettes, food and a fishing rod, which Ms Shaylor’s family said had “shattered” their faith in humanity.

Witnesses to the Umina Beach crash told the Telegraph the “flames were so high, we could feel the radiant heat from inside our house.”

“It was chaos, people were screaming, shouting,” one resident said.

A close friend of Mr Rowe said the teen had purchased the car in preparation for getting his license and that friends were fretting as he was in a “bad way” after the crash.

NSW Police Crash Investigation Unit continue to investigate the accident and no charges have been laid.

Police have not said drugs were a factor in the crash.