http://blogs.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/parthian-shot/the-state-and-memory-of-violence/
190
19
In Class V, I had flunked in both papers of Maths. And I still remember the scores—21 and 23. Out of 200 marks, all I could manage was 44. My father was upset. Very, very upset. He had asked me what led to this disaster. My reply was ready and precise, “My friends X and Y have also failed in Maths. X, who is otherwise so good and his father is a computer engineer, even he has failed.” I was a smart 10-year-old, and being an Indian, whataboutery came almost naturally to me. So I totally understand when Pakistan accuses India of human rights violations in Kashmir and India responds by pointing out Pakistan’s human rights violations in Balochistan. No side looks inwards, or as we say in Hindustani, ‘koi apne girehbaan mein jhaank kar nahin dekhta’. We Indians and Pakistanis are so alike, it’s a tragedy that we were split into two countries.

Last week, the Indian Air Force celebrated its 84th birthday in style. Among those who cheered it was a team of Red Arrows of the Royal Air Force. One of the finest air forces in the world, IAF also has an interesting history.

The earliest Indian fighter pilots joining the IAF, including the Marshal of the Air Force Arjan Singh, sharpened their air battle skills by strafing “unruly tribals” of British India’s north-west frontier, areas that are today Waziristan and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. Today, when Pakistan Air Force bombs and strafes these places as part of Zarb-e-Azb, it’s only following a colonial tradition of which the IAF was a trailblazer, and not in a nice way. The same IAF would, in Independent India, bomb and strafe the civilian population of Aizawl in 1966. So when Mr Modi recently highlighted (and very rightly) Pakistan’s gross human rights violations and particularly mentioned PAF’s air strikes on its own people, he perhaps didn’t know what our own air force did in the past. But then, the state has the monopoly on violence, doesn’t it?

The modern concept of nation-state gives the state the monopoly on violence. That means the state and the state alone has the right to use physical force, mostly on some other state, and sometimes on its own constituents. Violence on its own constituents, passes of as legitimate in most cases, unless of course the state engineers mass carnage or genocide. But even then, there is rarely any international punitive action against such states beyond condemnation.

I sometimes wonder if the world would have reacted to Nazi Germany differently had it not invaded Poland. He would have gone ahead with his Final Solution while the British, French and the Americans would have merely condemned the action. Without the Total War that Germany itself started, would the world have really bothered to topple the Nazi regime militarily, just for the sake of human rights?

I don’t think so. For proof, refer to the West siding with the murderous Khmer Rouge regime even after Vietnam had toppled it. The US and the UN continued to recognise the Khmer Rouge regime, ignoring the genocide this regime did under Pol Pot. Interestingly enough, the Khmer Rouge was a communist dictatorship, toppled by communist Vietnam supported by the communist Soviet Union. But its principal supporter was communist China, supported by the capitalist United States.

In India, we have shut ourselves up to history, not just of our own immediate and distant neighbourhood but even of our own country. That’s why after suffering horrifyingly in the Second World War in which 88,000 Indian troops died and up to 4 million civilians died in the Bengal Famine, we don’t remember a thing about it. We don’t know what our troops had to endure when they took on the bloodiest regimes in history—Nazi Germany, Fascist Italy and the Empire of Japan. Due to their own experiences in fighting the Japanese, who had unquestioningly swallowed the official narrative passed down to them, that dehumanised the enemy and influenced by Allied propaganda that, again, dehumanised the Japanese, the Indians who entered the war came out as changed people.

Indians, mostly in Japanese captivity were tortured, brutalised and used as guinea pigs for horrifying scientific experiments. When they returned, they did so as shaken men with broken bodies but with steely resolve. That was when they were at the receiving end of brutality.

But some of them were also brutal in treating or maltreating the enemy. As a horrified Japanese officer noted in his diary while retreating from Kohima and Imphal—the retreat that’s infamously come to be known in history as the road of bones—he saw a group of sick and exhausted Japanese soldiers sitting on the ground, no longer able to walk. An Indian Army soldier calmly walked up to them with a large bowl containing a liquid, which this officer perceived to be water from a distance. To his horror, this Indian soldier threw this liquid at the Japanese soldiers, coolly lit a cigarette and threw the burning light at the soldiers. He torched them alive! He perhaps refused to see those Japanese soldiers as humans, so didn’t hesitate to burn them despite the good record the Indian Army had in following the Geneva Convention. That’s what war does to you.

And that’s what those clamouring for a war with Pakistan should know and try to understand—though I know it’s quite futile to expect any sane behaviour from people who circulate posters on social media calling for the boycott of Chinese goods but confuse an American map with a Chinese one.

But the same China is the gold standard when it comes to aspirations. You would have heard and will hear the same people now calling for the boycott of Chinese goods highlighting at other times how without free speech China is a top economy today. They are also the same people who have probably never heard of the Great Leap Forward (a laughable insanity), the Cultural Revolution (an abominable silencing of the intellectuals and anyone deemed a counter-revolutionary under Chairman Mao) or the Tiananmen Square Massacre. The nouveau patriots in India need to answer if they want their own country to become something like the People’s Republic of China.

In India, public memory is notoriously short. So it’s a misplaced hope that people here would remember and reflect on the horrors of the Second World War. But we didn’t even remember the horrors of Partition in which millions of lives were lost in bloodshed. No government, no agency ever tried to erect a memorial to those who died when the subcontinent was split. As a result of that, a myth grew and continues to be perpetuated that Hindus are incapable of violence.

It’s often the favourite refrain of Hindu nationalist groups and parties even though Hindus have perpetrated some of the worst kind of violence on non-Hindus during Partition, in Jammu, in Hyderabad, 1984 and 2002. And perhaps each of these unfortunate events after Partition happened because the state didn’t do enough to preserve the memory of the pangs of birth of the two nations.

Today, we are reaping the harvest of our own ignorance over the decades and the state’s attempts to bury uncomfortable truths under the carpet.