http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/news/2016/10/mil-161010-presstv05.htm
195
19
At least 10 killed in fresh Saudi bombardment of Yemen

Iran Press TV

Mon Oct 10, 2016 4:51PM

In a fresh round of aerial assaultس, Saudi Arabia's warplanes have carried out multiple airstrikes on Yemen, killing at least 10 people and wounding several others, two days after the Saudi war machine massacred over 140 Yemenis in a social gathering.

The civilians, including women and children, lost their lives as Saudi fighter jets targeted two houses in Ashah area in Baqim district in the northwestern province of Sa'ada on Monday, Yemen's al-Masirah television reported, adding that seven more civilians sustained injuries in the aerial assault.

According to the report, the airstrikes almost entirely destroyed the two houses and inflicted heavy damage to the surrounding buildings. Saudi jets also pounded several other areas across the province on Monday.

Meanwhile, the Saudi warplanes carried out a number of airstrikes on different districts in the westernmost province of Hudaydah, including three strikes against a house in Khokha district. The possible casualties from the attacks are yet to be announced.

The Saudi jets also carried out at least three airstrikes on Hamdan district in the western province of Sana'a and another strike against Mukha district in the southwestern province of Ta'izz. They also pounded Hirz district in the northwestern province of Hajjah ten times.

Yemen's official Saba news agency, citing an unnamed local source, reported that at least a woman and a child sustained injuries on Monday after pro-Saudi troops targeted a residential building with artillery fire in Harib al-Qaramish district in the mid-west province of Ma'rib.

Meanwhile, the Yemeni army and popular forces reacted to the escalated air campaign by targeting a number of Saudi military positions in the kingdom's southern provinces of Najran and Asir with Katyusha rockets and artillery fire, inflicting damage to the positions.

The Yemeni forces and Houthi Ansarullah fighters also managed to destroy three Saudi military vehicles in the kingdom's southwestern province of Jizan, using artillery fire and missiles. Several Saudi troops were reportedly killed in the attack.

On Saturday night, the Yemeni fighters also fired a ballistic missile attack at Saudi Arabia's city of Ta'if, targeting an airbase. According to the reports, the aerial attack was the deepest strike yet into the kingdom by the Yemeni forces.

The Yemeni forces say their attacks against the Saudi troops are in retaliation against Riyadh's devastating war on their country. They've pledged to intensify their attacks amid an increase in Saudi air raids against Yemen.

On Saturday, more than 140 people were killed and over 525 wounded when a Saudi airstrike hit a community hall in south of the capital, Sana'a, where a funeral for the father of Interior Minister Jalal al-Roweishan was being held. The aerial aggression has drawn condemnation from the international community and the UN.

The death toll from the Saturday attack was one of the largest in a single incident since March 2015, when the Riyadh regime began its deadly campaign to crush the Yemeni Houthi Ansarullah movement and their allies and restore power to the resigned president, Abd Rabbuh Mansur Hadi.

Some 10,000 Yemeni people have so far been killed in the Saudi military campaign, according to the UN.

NEWS LETTER Join the GlobalSecurity.org mailing list Enter Your Email Address







