http://philadelphia.cbslocal.com/2016/10/11/police-triple-shooting-in-philadelphia-leaves-boy-17-dead/
190
19
By Tim Jimenez and Rahel Solomon

PHILADELPHIA (CBS) — A triple shooting in the Northeast has left a teenager dead.

Police are investigating to see if the shooting victims were just victims or if they fired shots as well.

Authorities have identified the victim as 17-year-old Quantico “Reno” Brunson. “It’s just a senseless killing,” said Brunson’s aunt Lakia Griffin.

Police say a 16-year-old is in critical condition with a gunshot wound to his chest.

Chief Inspector Scott Small says, “We did find, not only a lot of blood, we found some discarded bicycles. We also found a revolver on the sidewalk.”

The gunfire broke out on Stirling Street, near Hawthorne, in the Mayfair section of the city around 9:00 p.m. on Monday night.

It happened across the street from a playground. A weapon has been recovered. No arrests have been made at this time.

Surveillance video captures the victim and four others standing and talking outside of a convenience store when a white sedan pulls up. Someone is then seen getting out of the passenger side and walking out of the view of the camera. Minutes later it appears shots are fired and the passenger gets back in the car and it drives off.

“They were targeted, we’re not really sure why but they were definitely targeted,” said Philadelphia Police Homicide Captain James Clark.

Two of the three victims including Brunson showed up at Aria South Hospital. A third victim showed up at a nearby police station and was then transported to a local hospital.

Tuesday afternoon, police said the 16-year-old and 21-year-old victim were both listed in critical but stable condition.

Family members say Brunson enjoyed playing sports and boxing and was home schooled.

“He was always silly, playing, dancing, goofy ,” said Brunson’s mother Shantice Moton-Wideman.

Detectives say a weapon was recovered at the scene but they do not have any suspects or a motive though they hope video obtained will help.

Brunson’s father says he believes the motive for the shooting may have been a verbal confrontation online.

“It started off of Facebook and all the arguing back and forth on Facebook and it turns into killing, the Internet ?” said father Nasir Wideman, adding “You’re going to argue on Facebook? It’s not that deep. It’s just words. You typing words. So now I got to put my son in the dirt.”