http://www.philstar.com/cebu-news/2016/10/29/1638441/ex-church-youth-leader-nabbed-p12m-shabu
190
19
CEBU, Philippines - A former job order employee of the Cebu City government and church youth leader was arrested Thursday night after handing to a Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency-7 agent P11.8 million worth of suspected shabu.

PDEA-7 Director Yogi Filemon Ruiz said Jerome Sosmeña, 30, a resident of Barangay Luz, Cebu City was caught inside a mall in uptown Cebu around 8 p.m. after changing venues for the transaction several times.

"Medyo dugay na nato nadakop kay magsige siya og balhin-balhin…. Pirmiro didto sa isa ka mall, didto sa may pier nga mall. Human, balhin siya's pikas nga mall diri, duol-duol sa atoa. With that, pagtunol na gyud niya sa drugs, mao to ato nadakpan, nagbitbit og bag," Ruiz told reporters.

Sosmeña was one of six drug personalities authorities arrested the past two days, which also saw two suspected drug pushers killed for allegedly firing at the police first.

In the PDEA-7 arrest, Ruiz said Sosmeña yielded 10 large packs and a small sachet of suspected shabu, a digital weighing scale, empty plastic sachets, a mobile phone, and a Yamaha motorcycle (license plate OW-5000), three bank deposit slips, five transaction receipts, and six money transfer forms during the operation.

Ruiz said they would look further into the receipts and deposit slips and the names reflected on them. The suspect, Ruiz said, was previously connected with a drug group based in Muntinlupa City.

Freeman ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch:

"Iyahang grupo ani, grupo ni siya sa una sa Munti nga drug group. He is around level 2 drug pusher, high-value target ni siya," Ruiz said.

He said Sosmeña was very careful with his dealings with customers.

"Di kaayo nato siya du-gay na-surveillance. Pagdawat nato sa information last week, gi-conduct-kan dayon nato siya og investigation. We tried to transact, di siya mo-transact dayon. Gusto niya iyaha tan-awon ang kuwarta. Atong kuwarta pa-picture-ran niya through (phone application) Viber. Iyaha gyud tan-awon kung tinuod ba gyud to ang kuwarta. Pag-determine niya nga tinuod ang kuwarta, naka-transact na 'ta, nadakpan nato siya," Ruiz said.

He said what they seized from Sosmeña was large since he got a direct connection to the supplier.

"Dako gyud ni siya kay gikan sa iyahang supplier. Siya na ang mo-distribute. Kana ganing pagkaputos niya (sa shabu), padung pa na sa dealers niya," Ruiz said, adding that Sosmeña was trying to transact in Cebu City and in the northern part of Cebu.

"Maybe he was thinking nga safe siya but cooperative man ang mga malls ngari sa atoa," he added.

Sosmeña allegedly has supplied drugs to slain "drug lord" Jeffrey "Jaguar" Diaz but is not part of the dead man's group.

"Tig-supply-yan (si Sosmeña) sa una sa grupo ni Jaguar…. Dili siya miyembro. Siya nipuli sa pag-supply," he said.

"Dili (na) tinuod," Sosmeña, on the other hand, said.

Sosmeña was allegedly a band's former keyboardist and has previously worked as a job order employee at the Cebu City Hall's Disaster Risk Reduction Management Office.

Over an hour after, PDEA agents also arrested security guard Gilbert Gatico of Pusok, Lapu-Lapu City for allegedly sniffing shabu inside an abandoned building within the Mactan-Cebu International Airport compound around 9:30 p.m. also last Thursday.

Gatico was a security guard at the airport.

"Nag-conduct ta'g operation didto sa Lapu-Lapu (City). It was near the abandoned building. Nakadawat man ta'g report nga naay guwardiya nag-apil og suyop-suyop… Mao ato, na-verified, naa gyud tiggamitan… caught in the act nga naggamit sila og drugs," Ruiz said.

Gary Jeade Sollano, also a security guard, and a certain "Kokoy," who was the subject of the operation, however, managed to elude the PDEA agents when they swooped in around 9:30 p.m.

Ruiz said Gatico and Sollano were still wearing their uniform while allegedly sniffing shabu inside the abandoned building.

The PDEA-7 agents found at the scene three empty plastic sachets with traces of suspected shabu, a small sachet of suspected shabu, and assorted drug paraphernalia.

In Compostela town and in Danao City, two men were killed while two managed to elude the police in separate anti-illegal drug operations last Thursday and yesterday.

Teofilo Cababan, a resident of Sitio Sambag, Barangay Magay, Compostela, allegedly fired at the policemen first during an operation yesterday dawn led no less by Senior Inspector Romeo Caacay Jr., the town's police chief.

Police Officer 3 Arthur Ariate of Compostela Police Station said Cababan's companions, only identified as "Bonso" and "RR," managed to escape.

Ariate said they found in Cababan's possession a medium pack and three small sachets of suspected shabu, a .45 pistol with two bullets, and alleged proceeds from his illegal drug transactions amounting to P3, 240.

Meanwhile, in neighboring Danao City, Benedicto Cane Jr. was also shot dead by the police in Sitio Taboc, Barangay Camaligbato, around 6 p.m. last Saturday for allegedly opting to shoot it out with the police.

Senior Inspector Alejandro Batobalonos, Danao Police Station chief, said Cane refused to be arrested and even fired at them first.

He said Cane's companion, identified as Estela Marie Paran, was able to evade arrest.

A .38 revolver with two bullets and two large plastic bags containing dry marijuana leaves were confiscated from Cane.

The police were also able to recover the P500 buy-bust money.

Meanwhile, the Cebu Provincial Police Office Provincial Intelligence Branch arrested Flor Ariel "Gunding" Albaraccin and Victor Tsokemata in a buy-bust operation in Poblacion East, Moalboal town, around 5 p.m. last Thursday. The police seized illegal drugs worth P306, 800.

Five small sachets and another five large packs of suspected shabu, and a pack of cigarettes were confiscated from Albaracin, while three small sachets of shabu and a matchbox were seized from Tsokemata. Christell Fatima M. Tudtud, Mae Clydyl L. Avila (FREEMAN)