http://www.bangkokpost.com/news/general/1121793/one-killed-1-injured-in-drive-by-shooting
190
19
CCTV footage shows two men pursuing a car before opening fire. Sunisa Boonyen, right, was killed and her passenger, Chadaporn Srileng, wounded. photos by Abdullah Benjakat

A female teacher was shot dead and another woman wounded by two men on a motorcycle in Pattani's Mayo district yesterday morning.

Mayo police were alerted to the shooting in front of the Mayo Informal Education office in tambon Mayo at 10.50am.

Sunisa Boonyen, 49, was shot dead behind the wheel about 50 metres from the office.

Her passenger, Chadaporn Srileng, a 52-year-old office employee, was injured and rushed to Mayo Hospital.

The victims, both from Pattani, were heading to help dye clothing black for mourners of the late King Bhumibol Adulyadej in Ban Trang in the district.

Pol Lt Col Noppasit Tem-ongla, deputy chief of Mayo police station, said officers found six bullet casings of a .45 handgun at the scene.

CCTV footage shows the two men used a black Honda Wave motorcycle. Its licence plate was "1 Gor Kor 3759 Pattani", Pol Lt Col Noppasit said, adding the vehicle was reported stolen from a woman, named Thasanapon Puang-in, in tambon Bana of Pattani's Muang district on July 23.

The pillion rider who was wearing a black-and-white check shirt opened fire on the driver's side, the officer said. The two men used the Mayo-Thung Yang Daeng road as an escape route.

Officers found a piece of paper nearby with the message: "For you who killed Melayu people". Authorities blamed southern insurgents for the shooting.

The far South has been hit by several deadly attacks over the past week, including a powerful bomb blast at a noodle shop in Pattani's Muang district on Monday night, which killed a 60-year-old woman and wounded 21 others.

Monday's attack took place a day before the 12th anniversary of the Tak Bai tragedy in which 85 Muslim men died after being arrested and packed into trucks by army and paramilitary forces and sent to Narathiwat's Tak Bai district. They were arrested to break up an anti-government protest.