http://nation.com.pk/lahore/15-Oct-2016/missing-trader-found-dead
190
19
LAHORE - A missing trader was found dead from the canal near Mughalpura, police said yesterday.



The body was moved to morgue for autopsy and police said they were investigating.



Father-of-three Tariq Rahman went missing a couple of days ago.

The auto-dealer was a resident of Muslimabad in Fateh Garh.



Some passersby spotted the body and told the police.

A murder case was lodged but no arrest was made till filing of this report.



Police sources say they believe unidentified men tortured the trader to death somewhere else and threw the body into the canal.

The investigators also recorded the statement of his family.



Meanwhile, a 25-year-old rickshaw driver was found dead in a village near Gajju Matta in Kahna police limits.

The deceased was named as Bilal, a resident of Naseerabad.



Some villagers spotted the body in the fields and alerted the police.

Investigators said that unknown men shot and killed the driver and fled after throwing his body in the fields.

The police registered a murder case against unidentified men on the complaint of father of the victim.

No arrest was made yet.

The police were investigating.



The bodies of two junkies were found from Gowalmandi and Yakki Gate areas.

Rescuers shifted both the bodies, not identified yet, to the Mayo hospital’s morgue.

A police official said that apparently, both the men aged 30 and 35 were drug addicts.

The police were investigating the deaths.



Dacoits arrested

Police claimed to have smashed a gang of robbers by arresting its five members during a successful raid in Shera Kot area.



A police spokesman said the bandits were looting a motorcyclist when a police patrol responded to the robbery attempt on the Bund Road.

Police arrested one of the bandits while his four accomplices fled during the shooting which took place two days ago.



A police party then conducted roads in different parts of the city and arrested all the four robbers.

The bandits are being interrogated in connection with armed robberies.



Lahore DIG (Operations) Dr Haider Ashraf yesterday awarded cash prizes and commendatory certificates to the policemen who foiled the robbery attempt and arrested the bandits.

The officer handed over cash and certificates to 13 police officials including the concerned circle officer and station house officers of Nawan Kot and Shera Kot police.

