http://m.philstar.com/nation/show/69a41241d411605d9231ecfb1572846b?t=3epcut224b2kgls3mvrvjvu1i3
190
19
12 drug suspects killed

MANILA, Philippines - Twelve more drug suspects, including a police officer, were killed across the country in the past two days.

Three were slain in Bulacan yesterday.

Senior Superintendent Romeo Caramat, Bulacan police acting director, identified the fatalities as Police Officer 1 Prince Jhord Pinto of the Bustos police; Prince Joseph Centeno, a resident of Taguig City, and Dale Magsambol,18, of Barangay Pag-asa in Obando, Bulacan.

Pinto and Centeno were buying cigarettes at a store in Barangay San Juan in San Miguel town when an unidentified man in a sport utility vehicle fired at them.

Magsambol was shot dead by unidentified men who barged into his house. A piece of cardboard that read, “Pusher ako at drug user wag tularan baka ikaw ang susunod (I’m a pusher and drug user. Don’t emulate, you may be next),” was found near his body.

In Ilocos Sur, Roland Ibarra was watching television at his home in Barangay Paratong in Sinait town on Thursday when he was gunned down.

Ibarra surrendered under Oplan Tokhang recently, police said.

A man who has yet to be identified was killed in an alleged encounter with police operatives in Barangay Camachile in Doña Remedios Trinidad, Bulacan yesterday morning.

The man evaded a checkpoint and fired at policemen, police said. Two sachets of shabu, a .38 caliber revolver and ammunition were recovered from the fatality, police said.

In Cagayan, Benson Dy was killed while his wife and three-year-old daughter were wounded in a gun attack in Critan Centro district in Tuguegarao City at around 8 a.m. yesterday.

Chief Inspector Ruben Verbo, city police deputy chief, said Dy was on the drug watchlist of the police and the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency.

In Camarines Sur, Romeo Caruel, 52, and his son Romeo Jr., 24, allegedly drew their guns when they sensed they had sold shabu to undercover agents in Barangay Concepcion Pequeña in Naga City on Thursday.

An alias Ka Randy died in a reported shootout with police during a sting in Barangay H2 in Dasmariñas City on Thursday. His four companions were arrested.

Senior Superintendent Arthur Bisnar, Cavite police director, said the suspects were behind drug dealings in the province and nearby areas.

Edward Garcia, 37, alias Salapi, and Petronila Garcia were waiting for a passenger jeepney in Barangay San Jose Sico in Batangas City when unidentified men fired at them. The fatalities were on the drug watchlist of the police.

A man identified only as Elmer was killed in a reported shootout with police during a drug sting in Barangay Dinahican in Infanta, Quezon also on Thursday.

Meanwhile, police confiscated at least 10 kilos of shabu in an abandoned car in Apalit, Pampanga on Thursday.

Senior Superintendent Rodolfo Recomono Jr., Pampanga police director, said the identities of the owner of the vehicle and the men who abandoned the car are still being verified. – Ric Sapnu, Ben Serrano, Celso Amo, John Unson, Raymund Catindig, Ed Amoroso, Francis Elevado, Ramon Efren Lazaro