http://www.news.com.au/world/asia/bali-cop-murder-sara-connor-and-british-boyfriend-david-taylor-hold-hands-inside-kerobokan-prison/news-story/da512437c7c2136cb4a3b8314b913206
190
19
Cindy Wockner, Komang Erviani News Corp Australia Network

MORE than 40 friends of Australian woman Sara Connor have already written character references for the Byron Bay mum’s upcoming murder trial in Bali.

Yesterday Connor and her British boyfriend David Taylor were photographed by News Corporation, strolling hand-in-hand in Bali’s Kerobokan jail. Neither made any comment but the couple looked more relaxed than they have since their arrest back in August.

The couple held hands as they walked back from the jail’s visiting area to their cells. Jail guards reminded Taylor that his cell was in a different direction and the couple then split.

It comes as the Denpasar District Court has set down November 9 as the first day of their separate trials on charges of murdering a Bali police officer on a Kuta beach.

Friends of the 45-year-old Byron Bay mother and businesswoman have been called upon to help by writing references for her which will be translated for the Denpasar court.

Connor’s longtime friend, Victoria Dyte, yesterday told News Corporation about the woman who she calls her surrogate big sister, saying she is full of life and is a loyal friend who always has time for others.

“She is very warm and helpful. She is so passionate about life in general. She is a really hard worker. She has worked multiple jobs and still finds time for her family and still finds time to help people,” Ms Dyte said.

“I can’t think of a less deserving person for this to happen to.”

Ms Dyte first met Connor 16 years ago in London when she was just 18 and moved into a share house with her and says she is a dear and special friend.

Ms Dyte, a web designer who lives near Byron Bay, is now helping with a web page called www.thesarafund.com, set up to support Connor and which is now calling for character references for the court.

So far about 40 references have been collected. Ms Dyte said they had come from all over the world, from people who have known Connor her whole life to new friends of just a few months.

Connor’s Australian barrister, Peter Strain, who is assisting her case, said character references were very important to the case.

“Handing to the judges as many character references as we can is very important. It helps to show the court that Sara really is a beautiful person and lots and lots of people want to testify to that fact. Sara is innocent of the charges. All she tried to do was to break up a fight,” Mr Connor told News Corporation.

Calling for the references, the website page is titled “To Sara with Love” and says it is important for the Bali court to know what a wonderful person she is, “what a beautiful mother she is and what a warm, kind and gentle friend she is to so many of us”.

“Tell the court how long you have known Sara and in what circumstances you know her ... Tell the court, in your own words, what a gentle, kind, considerate person she is.”

The web page tells people not to give their views about the case. All the references will be translated into Indonesian and handed to the court.

Connor is in cell 12 of the women’s block of Kerobokan prison with about four other prisoners, including American woman Heather Mack, who is serving 10 years for the murder of her mother. Mack’s 19-month-old baby daughter Stella, who was born in custody, is in the cell with her.

It is understood that Connor also spends time with British woman Lindsay Sandiford, who is on death row on drug trafficking charges.

Prosecutors have said that when the matter comes to court next month both Connor and Taylor will face three charges — unpremeditated murder, violence causing death and assault causing death. The murder charge carries a maximum 15-year sentence.

The couple was recently moved into Kerobokan prison after spending two months in cramped holding cells at Denpasar police station while the case was investigated.

Connor is in the women’s block, which is segregated from the men’s blocks but the couple can see each other in the visiting area. Connor receives visits most days from friends.

The 45-year-old Byron Bay mum and businesswoman and her 34-year-old lover have been in custody since August 19, two days after the battered body of Bali police officer Wayan Sudarsa was found on a Kuta beach.

Officer Sudarsa suffered 17 head wounds and 42 wounds to his body altogether.

The prosecution alleges that he was bashed about the head with a broken beer bottle, the officer’s own binoculars and a mobile phone.

It is alleged that Connor and Taylor were kissing and cuddling on the Kuta beach that evening when they discovered Connor’s handbag was missing. While searching for it they came across the police officer and a fight broke out after Taylor allegedly accused him of stealing

the bag and being a fake police.

Connor has denied any role in the fight, saying that she was trying to break up the fight between her lover and the officer.

In the days after the incident Connor and Taylor burned the bloody clothes they were wearing on the night of the murder and threw away the police officer’s ID cards, which had been cut up.

Yesterday Kerobokan prison held an open day to showcase prisoner arts and crafts, including a T-shirt printing enterprise run by Australian Bali Nine member, Matthew Norman. Called “Redemption”, Norman said the brand’s message was “everybody can change.