http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3709836/Sale-hi-tech-giant-Japan-risks-crushing-UK-innovation-Lobby-group-warns-24bn-takeover-benefits-Britain.html
138
13
The £24billion Japanese takeover of a British tech giant will damage our prowess as a centre of research, a leading lobby group has warned.

Cambridge-based microchip designer ARM Holdings is being bought by SoftBank.

But the sale has raised fears that Britain is about to lose one of its most successful and ground-breaking companies.

And yesterday the Research & Development Society warned that such foreign takeovers rarely benefited the UK.

Its chief executive Nico Macdonald said the deal may also encourage other British companies to sell out to overseas investors.

Cambridge-based microchip designer ARM Holdings (pictured) is being bought by SoftBank.

And he compared SoftBank’s takeover to the notorious sale of chocolate maker Cadbury to American firm Kraft.

The buyer failed to keep promises it would protect British jobs and has courted controversy by changing much-loved recipes.

‘The acquisition of ARM Holdings by SoftBank has very broad ramifications for UK research and development,’ said Mr Macdonald.

‘This development will do nothing to support UK growth strategy, particularly for medium-sized companies, and will further weaken the commercialisation environment around science and technology.

‘This acquisition may also encourage more medium-sized companies to consider selling up.’ City grandee Lord Paul Myners has also voiced opposition to the deal. Addressing the House of Lords, he asked for assurances that SoftBank – a multinational telecommunications and internet corporation – would not be able to dodge taxes by moving its profits abroad.

The crossbench peer, who is a former Treasury minister, said: ‘I completely support the idea of the UK having an industrial strategy.

‘But I would like to know how this strategy fits in with supporting one of our leading technology companies being sold. ARM must not be allowed to have the profits from its extremely lucrative licences to go offshore and for it to be a tax haven.’

A branch of Softbank, a Japanese telecommunications and Internet corporation firm

Cadbury’s current owner Mondelez International – which was split out of Kraft in 2012 – has been using a controversial accounting system which means it pays no corporation tax in Britain.

A similar scheme is employed by Australian bank Macquarie, known as the vampire kangaroo for its asset-stripping practices.

Under its ownership, utility company Thames Water has only paid £100,000 in corporation tax since 2006.

Although she said she would get tough on foreign buyers, Theresa May has so far been positive about the takeover of ARM.

Ministers argued it showed the nation remained open for business after the Brexit vote.

In a bid to reassure critics, SoftBank has promised to keep ARM’s headquarters in Cambridge and double staff numbers, which currently stand at 1,600. Bosses have also publicly ruled out a change in tax arrangements.

SoftBank is due to file papers outlining the commitments which will be overseen by an independent supervisor. If it fails to meet its pledges on staff numbers and keep its head office in the UK, new powers could be enforced by the courts.

Meanwhile, ARM staff have apparently taken to the internet with concerns of their own.

On the website Glassdoor – where staff can anonymously review their workplace – one writer claiming to be a senior software engineer said: ‘We’ve listened to the justifications put forth, and they did not inspire.

‘Let’s be honest here. It may take five years, or ten years, but eventually things are going to diverge, tough times will appear, promises aren’t going to be remembered, and lots of loyal staff are going to be left out in the cold.