http://www.iraqsun.com/index.php/sid/248941003
190
19
Rohingya Muslims Women Say Myanmar Soldiers Raped Them amid Crackdown

Tasnim Saturday 29th October, 2016

TEHRAN (Tasnim) - Rohingya Muslims say Myanmar soldiers raped or sexually assaulted dozens of Muslim women in a remote village in the northwest of the country during the biggest upsurge in violence against the persecuted minority in four years.

Eight Rohingya women, all from U Shey Kya village in Rakhine State, described in detail how soldiers last week raided their homes, looted property and raped them at gun point.

Reuters interviewed three of the women in person and five by telephone, and spoke to human rights groups and community leaders. Not all the claims could be independently verified, including the total number of women assaulted.

Soldiers have poured into the Maungdaw area since Oct. 9, after an insurgent group of Rohingyas that the government believes has links to Islamists overseas launched coordinated attacks on several border guard posts.

A forty-year-old woman from U Shey Kya told Reuters that four soldiers raped her and assaulted her 15-year-old daughter, while stealing jewelry and cash from the family.

'They took me inside the house. They tore my clothes and they took my head scarf off,' the mother of seven said outside her home, a cramped bamboo hut.

'Two men held me, one holding each arm, and another one held me by my hair from the back and they raped me.'

Zaw Htay, the spokesman for Myanmar President Htin Kyaw, denied the allegations.

'There's no logical way of committing rape in the middle of a big village of 800 homes, where insurgents are hiding,' Zaw Htay claimed.

Zaw Htay telephoned a military commander in Maungdaw, whose name he did not disclose, during an interview with Reuters this week. The commander said troops conducted a sweep of U Shey Kya village on Oct. 19, but left without committing abuses.

The military did not respond to an emailed request for comment about the accusations.

Rakhine, where Rohingya Muslims form the majority population, has been the scene of communal violence at the hands of Buddhist extremists since 2012.

Hundreds of people have been killed, while tens of thousands have been forced to flee their homes and live in squalid camps in dire situations in Myanmar and other countries in Thailand, Malaysia and Indonesia.

According to the UN, Rohingyas are one of the most persecuted minorities in the world. The government denies full citizenship to Rohingya population, branding them illegal immigrants from Bangladesh, even as many trace their lineage in Myanmar back generations.

U Shey Kya village's official administrator, Armah Harkim, said he was working to verify the latest accounts, adding most residents believed them to be true.