http://www.iraqsun.com/index.php/sid/248939913
193
19
Philippine president says God told him to stop cursing

Iraq Sun Friday 28th October, 2016

• Duterte has uttered profanities against U.S. President Obama

• He has also used abusive language against the Pope

• He says God instructed him to stop using cuss words

MANILA, Philippines - Volatile Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte, who has uttered profanities against U.S. President Obama, and the Pope, on Thursday said God has told him to stop using foul language.

He said that while flying home from a trip to Japan, he was looking at the sky while everyone was sound asleep and he heard a voice that said “If you don't stop epithets, I will bring this plane down now."

"And I said, 'Who is this?' So, of course, 'it's God,'" he said.

“So, I promise God to... not express slang, cuss words and everything. So you guys hear me right always because (a) promise to God is a promise to the Filipino people."

He, however, cautioned, “Don’t clap too much or else this may get derailed.”

The president's attitude toward long-time ally United States has been increasingly hostile in recent months, even going so far as to call Obama a "son of a b***h,” also telling him to "go to hell." He used similar foul-mouthed language against the Pope earlier.

Duterte wrapped up his recent Japan visit with some scathing remarks against the United States.

According to local reports, Japan had hoped to bring the Philippines back to "the U.S.-Japan camp" through direct communication with the president during his stay in Japan.

However, Duterte continued to voice his dissatisfaction with Washington. "I want to prove to everybody, the Philippines has dignity," he said, reiterating that the United States treated his country like "a dog on a leash."

Since assuming office in June this year, Duterte has vowed a crackdown on drug trafficking in the country, using extreme measures in several cases, which have met with disapproval from the United States; something Duterte isn't very pleased about.