http://www.iraqsun.com/index.php/sid/248940401
195
19
United Kingdom needs to keep options open on Brexit, Tony Blair says

Iraq Sun Friday 28th October, 2016

• Blair tells Remain voters to mobilise against Brexit

• "We’re the insurgents now," says former U.K. prime minister

• Blair tells Corbyn, ‘Don’t use Brexit to take Britain back to the 1960s

LONDON, U.K. - According to former British Prime Minister Tony Blair, the United Kingdom needs to keep its options open on Brexit. Describing the June referendum result as “a catastrophe,” he said the British public should have the option to change their minds.

“If it becomes clear that this is either a deal that doesn’t make it worth our while leaving, or a deal that is so serious in its implications that people may decide they don’t want to go, there’s got to be some way, either through parliament, through an election, possibly through a referendum, in which people express their view,” he said in an interview with BBC Radio 4’s “Today” show.

"There is absolutely no reason why we should close off any options. You can't change this decision, unless it becomes clear in one way or another, that the British people have had a change of mind because they have seen the reality of the alternative," Blair, who left office in 2007, said.

"We are entitled to carry on scrutinising, and, yes, if necessary, to change our minds, because it seems sensible to us to do so. This is not about an elite over-ruling the people," he added.

Backing a second EU referendum, amid fears over a so-called "hard Brexit," Blair urged Remain voters to organise their opposition to Brexit. Writing in the New European, the former prime minister called for a new movement born from the 48 percent of voters who wanted to remain in the European Union, saying, “We’re the insurgents now. We have to build the capability to mobilise and to organise.”

These are his first public comments on Brexit since the referendum campaign.

Like British Prime Minister Theresa May, Blair is a Remain supporter, but unlike May he is advocating the possibility of another referendum on the issue.

May has said she respects the June referendum result and will work towards fulfilling the people's wishes.

Blair also issued a thinly-veiled warning to Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn over policies which would provide “competing visions of the 1960s," but rejected the suggestion he would quit Labour.

“My view very simply is this: if you end up in the situation where the political choice is between a hard Brexit Tory party and a hard-left Labour Party there will be millions of people who feel politically homeless.

“I am not suggesting new political parties. I am Labour I’ll stay Labour… What I am suggesting, however, is that we need to be mindful of the fact, yes, it’s true the Leave side won but there are 16 million people who voted Remain. They feel also very passionately about their position. I think they require and need an opposition that is going genuinely to hold the government to account.”

“Personally I think it would be a tragedy if we ended up as a country with two competing visions of the 1960s. The truth is the 21st century for Britain is going to be how we create a dynamic outward-looking country and economy. If we end up with a Hard Brexit I fear the pain of that economic and social restructuring will be severe. If the Labour Party can get back to a more centrist position then I think we are in a more position to win an election.”

In June's referendum, 51.9 percent of voters opted in favour of leaving the EU.

The government has promised to invoke Article 50 - setting formal talks with the EU in motion - by the end of March next year.

But not everyone is backing the former prime minister's views.

UKIP MP Douglas Carswell tweeted that Blair was "seeking to de-legitimise and reverse" the referendum result.

And in the first challenge to Brexit, a Belfast High Court is due to give its verdict after a group including politicians from various parties and human rights campaigners is opposing Theresa May's ability to trigger Brexit negotiations next March.

They wish to establish that the devolved Stormont Assembly can veto Brexit, assert rights to consultation over whether to launch talks with EU representatives and safeguard peace process guarantees included in the 1998 Belfast Agreement.