http://www.nationmultimedia.com/national/Hua-Hin-schools-suspend-classes-amid-safety-concer-30293018.html
190
19
The violence claimed two lives and injured more than 20 others, including foreigners, in the otherwise peaceful resort town. Four people were killed in total in attacks across the country.

At least eight schools in Hua Hin yesterday announced temporary closures, citing safety concerns. Teachers were seen in front of school gates advising parents to take their children home.

The police and military presence in Hua Hin has now been increased significantly.

In last week’s spate of violence, arson and bomb attacks were carried out in Prachuap Khiri Khan and six southern provinces including Trang.

A source said yesterday that Colonel Tawatchai Rak-archeep, deputy chief of Internal Security Operations Command’s Trang office, had asked police and the Trang Municipality to ensure all security cameras were working properly. “He also wants more security cameras installed to facilitate the arrests of culprits in such cases,” the source added.

Trang’s Centre Point market has remained closed since a blast last Thursday killed one victim and injured seven others. Tawatchai yesterday convened a meeting with vendors to step up security measures before the market reopens for business.

Centre Point vendors plan to make merit in dedication to the deceased tomorrow and to resume trading on Thursday.

Somkiat Intornkham, chief of Trang’s disaster prevention and mitigation office, yesterday said provincial authorities had declared the blast site and the arson-hit Lee Mart as a disaster zone to pave the way for the delivery of financial compensation to victims.

“Each injured victim will get Bt25,000. The [family of the] deceased victim, given that he was a breadwinner, will receive Bt50,000,” he said.

Somkiat said people whose livelihoods were affected could get financial help of Bt15,000 each.

Thirty-two vendors in Lee Mart, a large wholesale store, have registered for assistance.

In Bangkok, the city administration has been tightening security, particularly in royal compounds, government agencies and tourist zones.

Bangkok Metropolitan Administration workers have been instructed to watch out for suspicious items or activities during the course of their work.

Bangkok Governor MR Sukhumbhand Paribatra said people should also immediately alert authorities if they came across anything suspicious.