http://gulfnews.com/news/uae/courts/dubai-court-suspect-admits-to-killing-obaida-1.1849228
130
13




Obaida Sedqi

Dubai: A man admitted in court on Monday that he raped and strangled an eight-year-old boy in the back seat of his car in May.

“Yes … it happened,” said 49-year-old Jordanian, Nidal Eisa Abdullah, as he pleaded guilty and admitted that he raped and murdered the Jordanian boy Obaida Sedqi before the Dubai Court of First Instance on the first day of his trial on Monday.

Prosecutors have accused Abdullah of luring the boy to his car by offering to buy him a scooter and then he drove to Al Mamzar area in Dubai.





Obaida’s father Ebrahim Sedqi with his daughters Aya and Tala at his residence in Sharjah Industrial area. He is holding Obaida’s picture. Ahmed Ramzan/Gulf News

There, he moved the 8-year-old to the back seat and had forced sex with him. He also assaulted the boy before he strangled him with a red ghutra when the victim tried to defend himself.

“Did you strangulate the boy after you raped him?” presiding judge Ali Abdul Wahhab asked the suspect, who stood inside the dock before a crowded courtroom.

“Yes I did …,” replied the suspect.

“Did you strangulate the boy with your bare hands? You also strangulated him with a red ghutra with which you clean your car by tightening it until you made sure that he stopped breathing?” the judge asked.

“I was not sober … I was under the influence of alcohol when all that happened,” replied Abdullah in an edgy voice.

Obaida Ebrahim - residence in Sharjah, Al Nahda Street Photo. Arshad Ali/Gulf News Archives

According to the charges, prosecutors have accused the suspect of five crimes — premeditated murder, kidnap, rape of a minor, drinking and driving a vehicle under the influence of liquor.

Prosecutors said the defendant used deceptive methods and lured the boy into his car from his father’s shop in Sharjah.

“Did you kidnap the boy from Sharjah and took him in your car?” the judge asked the suspect.

“I did not kidnap him … I took him with me and he is used to riding with me,” answered the suspect.

“Did you drink five pegs of vodka?” the judge asked the suspect.

“Yes I drank,” Abdullah replied.

Meanwhile, he pleaded guilty when asked if he drove the vehicle under the influence of liquor.

Dubai prosecutors are seeking toughest punishment applicable [death sentence] as per the UAE Penal Law’s articles 354, 344 and 332.

According to article 344, a suspect, who kidnaps a victim and the kidnapping leads to the latter’s demise, and then he/she faces a death sentence or a life imprisonment.

Meanwhile, article 354 stipulates that a suspect could face a death sentence if he rapes or has sex with a minor.

A suspect, who premeditatedly kills a victim, could face a death sentence, according to article 332.

Dubai’s Attorney General Essam Eisa Al Humaidan said last week that prosecutors would seek a death sentence against the Jordanian suspect.

The lawyer of the victim’s family, advocate Obaid Al Mazmi handed presiding judge Abdul Wahhab a civil lawsuit in which he asked the court to implement the sternest punishment (capital sentence) against the suspect.

In the lawsuit, Al Mazmi said his client’s [Obaida’s parents] are seeking Dh21,000 in civil temporary compensation against their moral and emotional damages.

“The court will appoint a lawyer to defend the suspect when it reconvenes on June 27. Prosecutors will also notify the prosecution witnesses to hear their statements,” said the presiding judge.

Records said the boy’s father reported the police that his son was kidnapped from Sharjah on May 21 before a cleaner found the boy’s body under a tree in Al Warqaa area near Academic City Road.

Dubai police’s forensic experts confirmed that the victim was raped.