http://www.philstar.com/cebu-news/2016/09/11/1622634/six-more-drug-suspects-dead
190
19
CEBU, Philippines - Six more alleged drug personalities are dead after they were shot in four incidents between the other night and early morning yesterday in Danao City, Naga City, and Mandaue City yesterday. At least four of the victims were killed by unidentified assailants while two were killed after reportedly shooting it out with police.

In Danao City, the victims were identified as Joshua Abellana and Jerry Cabriana, both residents of Barangay Maslog, both of legal age; and Quirico Defensor, 39, a resident of Barangay Looc.

Senior Inspector Alejandro Batobalonos, chief of the Danao City Police Station, said around 2 a.m. yesterday Defensor was killed by unknown assailants while he was inside his house.

“Gisud ni siya,” he said, adding Defensor was shot several times and killed instantly.

Ten minutes later, Batobalonos said Abellana, a drug personality who surrendered to authorities following Oplan Tokhang, and his alleged associate Cabriana, were shot dead while inside their house in Barangay Maslog.

Police believe the three were killed by the same persons.

Freeman ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch:

“Nagtuo mi nga usa ra’y nihimo ani kay same man ang na-recover sa crime scene a bond paper with writings “PUSHER AKO WAG TULARAN”,” he said, adding that the three victims were in the watch list of the Danao City Police Station.

Batobalonos said the motive behind the killings is likely the victims’ involvement in the illegal drug trade. He added they are investigating the cases but it will be difficult without witness testimonies.

“Maglisod g’yud mi og determine sa mga suspects kay wala’y witness, kay kun naa man gani witness mahadlok sad,” he said.

Peddler’s son shot

Meanwhile, the son of an alleged drug pusher was killed after allegedly shooting it out with the police yesterday around 4:30 a.m. in Barangay Inayagan, Naga City.

Days earlier, Naga police reported they received information about a certain “Anu”, later identified as Anu Pardillo, selling illegal drugs in the area. After confirming he was indeed selling drugs and they immediately arranged to conduct a buy-bust operation against Pardillo.

After the transaction was completed, Anu’s son John Anthony Pardillo, 26, noticed that his father was actually transacting with police and pulled out a gun.

He then fired at one of the policemen but missed. The policemen returned fire, hitting John Anthony several times. He was rushed to the Minglanilla District Hospital where he later died.

Anu was able to escape arrest in the chaos that ensued.

John Anthony's live in partner Marjorie Pardillo, 26, was arrested for allegedly maintaining a drug den. Police also arrested a certain Luis Oralde, 19, for visiting the drug den during the operation.

Police recovered a hand grenade, a .45 cal. pistol with several live rounds, and a plastic sachet with suspected shabu from the crime scene.

Marjorie and Oralde are now detained and will be facing the same charges as Anu who is still at large.

Two shot dead

In Mandaue City two suspected drug pushers who were in the police watch list were shot dead in separate incidents Friday night.

Police said the victims were Ralph Paran, 21, of Zone 6, Barangay Mantuyong; and Romnick Flores, 27, of Barangay Labogon. Paran was shot by two unidentified men riding in tandem while Flores was shot dead in a police operation.

Police Officer 2 Bernard Salimbot of the Centro Police Station, said two unidentified men shot Paran while he stood along B. Ceniza Street in Barangay Centro around 9 p.m.

Salimbot said the assailants were described as each wearing a bonnet, helmet and black jacket. Paran was killed on the spot after being shot five times. Police recovered a .45 cal. pistol at the crime scene but it was not immediately clear if it belonged to the victim or the assailants.

"Atong nasuta nga sud-gawas na sa prisuhan ang biktima tungod sa pagpangawat unya nalakip usab siya sa watchlist nga nalambigit og illegal drugs dinhi sa Station 1," Salimbot said.

In Sitio Tuburan, Barangay Labogon, operatives of the Investigative and Detective Management Branch of the Mandaue City Police Office were on their way to serve an arrest warrant when they saw Flores with a gun through the open door of his house, according to Senior Police Officer 4 Marcos Noval.

"Among gisita si Romnick pero imbes nga maminaw, kalit lang nibunlot sa iyang armas ug nipabuto namo hinungdan nga nibawos og paboto ang atong mga polis," Noval said.

Flores was hit in his chest and killed.

Noval said that Flores was also a surrenderer of Oplan Tokhang but went back to selling drugs. The police recovered a .45 cal. pistol, a medium sachet of suspected shabu, and P4,800 suspected drug money from the house of Flores.

Three arrested

Three persons, one of them a minor, were arrested on Friday by police during a buy-bust operation in Sitio Guiwanon, Barangay Poblacion, Dalaguete town.

The suspects were identified as Paulino Mariscal, alias “Nonoy”, 48, and his two sons, John Ian, 22; and a 16-year-old. The sons were arrested for possession of dangerous drugs.

Police Officer 1 Ariel Cordova, desk officer of Dalaguete Police Station said it was around 1:40 p.m. when they conducted a buy-bust operation against Paulino who has reportedly been selling drugs for a long time now.

Paulino is in the drug watch list of the Dalaguete Police Station but did not voluntarily submit himself to the authorities during Oplan Tokhang.

Cordova said they were able to recover several sachets of suspected shabu and the P200 buy-bust money from the suspects. They are now detained at the Dalaguete Police Station and are set to face charges for violation of the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act before the Prosecutor’s Office on Tuesday. — Mylen P. Manto, Iris Mariani B. Algabre, Garry B. Lao, and Mylen P. Manto/BRP (FREEMAN)