http://m.philstar.com/414576/show/68049eaff094489e94279caa124ab4c6
193
19
4 drug suspects slain

MANILA, Philippines - Four suspected drug pushers were killed in Luzon in the past two days.

Paulino Tejada, 48, was shot dead near a restaurant in Barangay Poblacion Este in Sta. Cruz, Ilocos Sur on Sunday.

Senior Inspector Mark Lagman, Sta. Cruz police chief, said Tejada was pronounced dead on arrival at the Sta. Lucia District Hospital.

Four bullet shells for a .45-caliber pistol were recovered at the scene.

Lagman said the fatality surrendered under Oplan Tokhang in July.

A man identified only as Hadji was killed in a reported shootout with police in Barangay Sta. Trinidad in Angeles City, Pampanga before dawn yesterday.

Senior Superintendent Sidney Villaflor, Angeles City police director, said the fatality was a known drug personality in the area.

A .22-caliber revolver and two sachets of shabu were allegedly recovered from the fatality.

In Ilocos Norte, Senior Police Officer 1 Perfecto Mike Joaquin, 45, was gunned down by motorcycle-riding men in front of his house in Barangay 20 in San Nicolas town yesterday.

Senior Inspector Joseph de la Cruz, San Nicolas police chief, said Joaquin was under investigation for his alleged links with with drug pushers.

Initial investigation showed Joaquin had just arrived from his duty in Adams town when he was shot at around 7:30 a.m. He died while being treated at Black Nazarene Hospital.

Also yesterday in Camarines Norte, carpenter Isagani Silvio was found dead in a grassy area in Sitio Mineral, Barangay Talobatib in Daet town.

Police Officer 2 Jerson Mago said the fatality was on Daet’s drug watchlist.

Meanwhile, Agusan del Sur will build rehabilitation facilities for drug dependents under its Substance Use Recovery and Enlightenment Program or SURE.

Initially at least two centers with bed capacities of 50 each will be built at the provincial government complex and at the camp of the 401st Infantry Brigade in Barangay Awa in Prosperidad town, said board member Santiago Cane Jr.

Cane said the provincial board passed an ordinance institutionalizing SURE for drug dependents and appropriating funds for its operations on Sept. 15.

He said SURE has three major components – information and education campaign, outpatient drop-in and residential treatment and rehabilitation centers. – Ric Sapnu, Raymund Catindig, Celso Amo, Ding Cervantes, Ben Serrano