http://en.farsnews.com/newstext.aspx?nn=13950720000343
190
19
Foreign Policy

Iran Warns of Humanitarian Crisis in Yemen

TEHRAN (FNA)- Iran's Ambassador and Permanent Representative to the United Nations Gholamali Khoshrou warned of the possibility of a humanitarian crisis in Yemen in case of delayed aid to the war-stricken country, and called on the UN to adopt immediate measures to this end.

Khoshrou made the remarks in a meeting with the UN Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator Stephen O’Brien on Monday.

The meeting was held after Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif sent a letter to UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon on the Saudi-led coalition's recent airstrike on a funeral ceremony in Sana'a which killed and wounded over 900 people, and underlined preparedness of Iran's Red Crescent Society to send humanitarian aid to Yemen and transfer the wounded to the Iranian hospitals for treatment.

Warning of the critical situation facing many of those wounded in Saudi Arabia's airstrike on a funeral hall in the capital on Saturday, Khoshrou stressed the need for adopting swift action to that effect.

Noting that most of the injured are in dire need of medical services and delay in providing services will lead to an increase in the number of victims, he said that it was for the same reason that Iran's Red Crescent Society expressed it preparedness to dispatch humanitarian aid to the Yemenis and the UN is expected to help facilitate the process.

In relevant remarks on Monday, Iranian Deputy Foreign Minister for Legal and International Affairs Seyed Abbas Araqchi called for the United Nation's assistance to facilitate dispatch of humanitarian aid to the Yemeni people, specially following the massacre of mourning civilians by the Saudi warplanes in Sana'a.

"The UN Secretary-General should facilitate this task and guarantee its security," Araqchi said.

He condemned the Saudi fighter jets' airstrikes against civilian targets in Sana'a, and underlined Iran's preparedness to send humanitarian aid and medicine to the Yemeni people.

Araqchi also said that Iran is ready to transfer the wounded Yemeni people to the country's hospitals for treatment.

Reports from Yemen's capital said on Saturday that over 900 people were killed or wounded in massive air raids by the Saudi-led coalition warplanes.

The airstrikes targeted a hall where people were paying their last respects to the father of Yemen's Interior Minister Jalal Al-Rouyshan who is also the chief of staff of former President Ali Abdullah Salih.

A second strike hit exactly the same region as people rushed to aid those injured in the first round of air assault.

Also, the Saudi warplanes staged massive airstrikes on a ceremony on the house of Sheikh Abu Shwareb, inflicting tens of casualties on the civilians who had gathered for a ceremony at his residence.

Saudi Arabia has been striking Yemen since March 2015 to restore power to fugitive president Mansour Hadi, a close ally of Riyadh. The Saudi-led aggression has so far killed at least 11,300 Yemenis, including hundreds of women and children.

Despite Riyadh's claims that it is bombing the positions of the Ansarullah fighters, Saudi bombers are flattening residential areas and civilian infrastructures.

According to several reports, the Saudi-led air campaign against Yemen has driven the impoverished country towards humanitarian disaster.