https://www.rt.com/news/362311-aleppo-shelling-killed-injured/
192
19
A mortar attack on a Syrian government-controlled area of Aleppo has resulted in numerous casualties, RT’s Murad Gazdiev reported from the embattled city.

The RT crew has recorded the aftermath of the deadly attack in western Aleppo. It was not immediately clear how many people were killed and injured in the overnight shelling.

According to Syrian state news agency SANA, at least four people were killed and 14 others injured after rocket shells targeted al-Hamadaneyah neighborhood in Aleppo on Monday night.

Survival in the Killzone of #Aleppo; what "living in terror" really means. We're here #Syriahttps://t.co/c58gQ2PkfB via @youtube — Murad Gazdiev (@MuradGazdiev) October 10, 2016

RT’s Murad Gazdiev earlier explored the dangers faced by civilians in what was once the second-largest Syrian city, now split between government forces and terrorist groups, including Al-Nusra Front, an Al-Qaeda affiliate.

RT EXCLUSIVE: RT crew’s footage reveals ISIS & Al-Nusra flags planted on Aleppo’s frontline (VIDEO)

Residents of western Aleppo, recently brought under the control of the Syrian Army and security forces, told RT they still have to use alleys, sideways and holes in walls to reduce the risk of being shot by Islamist snipers.

Read more

But daily casualties remain a harsh reality in the war-torn city as mortars fired by jihadists indiscriminately strike civilian neighborhoods in the city.

Meanwhile refugees who manage to flee jihadist-held areas continue to receive hot meals and items of first necessity, the Russian Defense Ministry reported.

According to the Russian Centre for the Reconciliation in Syria strikes were carried out by jihadists on Monday against the Bab al-Khalid, Ramusi, and Leramon neighborhoods of the city. Hai al-Ansari quarter was struck at least three times, while the Binyamin inhabited area was struck twice.

Besides purely civilians areas, the terrorists targeted the Syriatel communication station, and positions of the government troops near quarter 1070, al-Assad military academy, and a cement plant. Jihadists also shelled Castello trade center and a checkpoint on the Castello road.