http://www.nationmultimedia.com/national/CCTV-links-Myanmar-suspect-to-death-of-homeless-wo-30297473.html
193
19
Closed-circuit footage captured the suspect – identified only as “Bung” or “Jimmy” – riding a bicycle in the area in the early hours of last Thursday.

The unnamed woman, who had suffered multiple stab wounds, was found with her hands partially tied in a shack under the Lat Phrao U-turn overpass on Sunday. It is estimated that she died four to six days earlier.

A police source said that the triple murder suspect was spotted at 1.28am and then at 2.52am on Thursday riding his bicycle on the inbound expressway lane of Vibhavadi Road towards the Lat Phrao Intersection, where the woman’s body was later discovered.

Acting chief of Provincial Police Region 1, Lt-General Charnthep Sesawet, commented about the investigation into three scavengers’ murders in Pathum Thani that police were still awaiting results of forensic tests before prosecuting the suspect.

He said there was no need to interrogate him as there was already clear incriminating evidence, including the camera footage and the young man’s own behaviour.

Charnthep said it did not appear that “Jimmy” suffered from a mental problem, as some authorities had speculated. However, if the man’s defence lawyers wanted to challenge this in court or call for further expert examination, it was within their right to do so, he added.

The bodies of scavenger Supakorn Khokkran, 25, and female companion Supapan Khong-yoodee, 38, were discovered with their hands tied behind their backs in Thanyaburi in Pathum Thani last Tuesday. Two days later, the body of scavenger Sathien Sornchai, 48, was found in the same neighbourhood.

The suspect was arrested in Bangkok’s Chatuchak district on Friday. Initial DNA test results found that his shirt carried traces of both men’s blood.

Police are also investigating whether “Jimmy” might also have involved in the murder of newspaper vendor Wanchai Noimontree, 56, who was found dead with 10 stab wounds on September 5 at a park in the Bangkok’s Phayathai area.

