http://www.philstar.com/cebu-news/2016/09/20/1625511/3-drug-suspects-dead-cebu-city-oslob
193
19
CEBU, Philippines - Three suspected drug personalities were killed in Cebu City and in the province yesterday and on Sunday.

In Cebu City, a suspected drug pusher was shot dead by unidentified men on board a motorcycle around 11:15 p.m. yesterday in front of a bakeshop along V. Rama Avenue in Barangay Calamba.

The victim was identified as Antonio Bunal Jr., 46, and currently residing at the place. He was seen crossing the street before being shot several times.

A police report said the perpetrators arrived riding a green Yamaha Mio motorcycle and made a U-turn.

The backrider then disembarked and pulled out a firearm and shot Bunal, who was killed on the spot.

Responding police personnel led by SPO4 Sanrico Jole-Jole recovered seven empty shells of apparently a caliber 45 weapon.

Freeman ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch:

Based on police investigations, the victim has been on the drug watch list and had several enemies in the barangay.

2 killed in Oslob

In the province, two suspected drug pushers were killed Sunday afternoon in a buy-bust operation conducted by the joint operatives of Oslob Police Station and Regional Public Safety Battalion-7 in Barangay Bonbon, Oslob town.

The fatalities were identified as Bernjie Castillo, 26, a resident of Barangay Mambaling, Cebu City, an alleged member of the Jaguar Diaz group, and John Ray Pozon, a resident of Lapu-Lapu City.

Police Inspector Deni Mario Pedrozo, officer-in-charge of Oslob Police Station, said at about 5:20 p.m., they conducted a buy-bust operation against the suspects after weeks of monitoring their illegal activities. Perdozo said Castillo and Pozon drew their firearms upon sensing that they were transacting with the police.

Pozon shot Police Officer 3 Johnny Tapalis, who was hit in the back. This prompted the operatives to shoot and hit the suspects. Castillo and Pozon were rushed to Oslob District Hospital but were declared dead on arrival.

Tapalis was rushed to Cebu City hospital but was discharged after he was treated.

The operatives recovered from the suspects two .38 caliber revolvers loaded with three live ammunitions, four empty shells of .38 caliber revolver, two plastic sachets believed to be shabu, P3,305 cash believed to be proceeds from their alleged drug trade, three cellular phones, one gold ring, one silver ring, one silver bracelet and an inhaler.

Aside from Pozon and Castillo, the operatives also arrested Jemabelle Ventic, 22, a resident of Barangay Nueva Caceres and Castillo's live-in partner who was at the scene during the operation.

The police recovered one plastic sachet believed to be shabu from the possession of Ventic. She is now detained at Oslob Police Station pending the filing of complaint before the Prosecutor's Office.

Pedrozo said Castillo and Pozon operated in Oslob after the death of one of the noted drug pushers in the town. (FREEMAN)