http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3833276/Vincent-Stanford-killed-teacher-Stephanie-Scott-wished-Happy-Easter-Leeton-High-School.html
190
19
Chilling police footage has revealed in excruciating detail the day that school cleaner Vincent Stanford murdered teacher Stephanie Scott.

In video shown in court at Stanford's sentencing hearing on Tuesday, the 25-year-old calmly admitted he felt no emotion when he killed Ms Scott.

Standford pleaded guilty in July to raping and murdering Ms Scott, 26, on April 5 last year at the high school where they both worked. She was due to marry childhood sweetheart Aaron Leeson-Woolley six days later.

NSW cleaner Vincent Standford (pictured) said he had 'no emotion' when he murdered Leeton High School teacher Stephanie Scott in 2015

Standford pleaded guilty in July to raping and murdering Ms Scott (pictured) at Leeton High School, NSW, where they both worked and appeared at his Supreme Court sentence hearing on Tuesday

Stanford, 25, earlier confessed to police he had fantasised about killing someone since he was seven-years-old

In a video recording of his April 11 confession played to the court, Stanford said he was 'emotionless' toward Ms Scott, but punched her in the face 40 times before stabbing her in the neck because he 'wanted to kill'.

'I had to kill her. I was not angry or anything I was pretty emotionless. I just thought I had to kill her.'

Stanford said he grabbed her from behind after she wished him a 'Happy Easter', put a hand over her mouth and dragged her into a store room before throwing her on the ground.

'I picked her up from behind with my right hand over her mouth and my left hand around her middle, I dragged her into the store, I closed the door behind us, chucked her on the floor and I beat her to death,' he said.

She struggled but did not scream, he told police.

'I just could not stop myself I have had anger attacks in the past I have been treated for that I think I needed to see a psychiatrist,' he told detectives in the video.

He began hitting Ms Scott in the face, and punched her up to 40 times before stabbing her in her carotid artery with a knife.

In a video recording of his April 11 confession played to the court, Stanford said he was 'emotionless' toward Ms Scott (pictured), but grabbed her after she wished him 'happy Easter'

Correctional officers lead Stanford from the prison van on Tuesday before court

He said he only stopped after 'she stopped moving and breathing'.

Stanford also revealed in the footage he took photos of Ms Scott's body, and kept her bra.

Stanford told police he was unsure why he kept the bra, but it could have been a 'souvenir'.

'I put her into the storeroom and killed her, I put her into the trunk of her car, I got the high pressure cleaner out, cleaned the high school and her blood, then I drove her car to my house', he calmly explained.

'I dumped her there and burnt her, I drove back, took Pike Road, put her car there and then I walked home,' he said of the night he dumped her body.

Earlier it was revealed that Stanford had dreamed about killing someone since he was at least seven years old and when he saw school teacher Stephanie Scott he knew 'he had to kill her.'

Vincent Stanford being interviewed by police detectives

Stanford, 25, pleaded guilty to the rape and murder of Ms Scott at Leeton in NSW in April 2015 just one week before was due to marry Aaron Leeson-Woolley (both pictured)

Court documents revealed this week the school cleaner at Leeton High School, NSW, often lingered in the girls toilets while students were on their lunch break and choked his a teacher when he was 12-years-old, according to The Daily Telegraph.

Stanford, 25, was led by handcuffs into his Supreme Court sentence hearing in Griffith on Tuesday morning, the first time he has been seen in public.

Standford was described in a psychological assessment as having 'characteristics of sexual sadism' and was placed in a mental health unit after he assaulted his teacher, aged 12.

The court also heard on Tuesday he had Googled 'bride rape,' 'bride rape vid' and 'bride raped with wedding gown' before the murder.

'He also conducts searches in relation to necrophilia and "necro rape",' the agreed statement of facts said.

He ordered hand cuffs and a 'half sword' over the internet just days before Ms Scott was killed and also searched online for a knife that would make puncture wounds.

During his confession, Stanford told police he could not adapt to society, The Daily Telegraph reported.

'I would have to require emotions, I have almost none, I have hatred,' he said.

Merrilyn Scott described the 'poignant' moment of having to choose a coffin for her daughter when she should have been on her honeymoon

Ms Scott's mother Merrilyn delivered an emotional victim impact statement, questioning why Stanford had access to schools after his 'red flags'.

She fought back tears as she read out the speech she intended to make at her daughter's wedding, the ABC reported.

She spent her wedding day in a morgue ... there were no vows exchanged, no wedding dance.

'Too pathetic and inept to make a life of his own, he chose to take a life he had no right to,' she read.

'We will never know what she suffered but to know that she suffered at all is difficult to bear.'

She described the 'poignant' moment of having to choose a coffin for her daughter when she should have been on her honeymoon.

The family sat in silence as the video of Stanford's confession was played and many of Ms Scott's supporters wore yellow - the slain teacher's favourite colour.

Ms Scott's mother Merrilyn (pictured leaving court with husband Robert) delivered an emotional victim impact statement, questioning why Stanford had access to schools after his 'red flags'

The family sat in silence as the video of Stanford's confession was played and many of Ms Scott's supporters wore yellow - the slain teacher's favourite colour

Crown prosecutor Lee Carr told the hearing the murder of Ms Scott was 'merciless and cold-blooded' and said Stanford had thoughts of killing another person from the age of seven.

Defence barrister Janet Manuell SC said the crimes were 'terrible,' but Stanford was diagnosed by two psychiatrists with autism and argued against a life sentence.

He was 'locked into this eternally conflicted state' and 'locked into entrenched anger and hatred', according to the expert's report.

Stanford faces a maximum sentence of life imprisonment and will receive his sentence on Thursday.

His twin brother Marcus was sentenced to 15 months in August to being an accessory after the fact for pawning her rings for $705. He was released on September 9.

Vincent Stanford (pictured as a primary school student at Prins Florisschool in Holland) admitted in the NSW Supreme Court in July to raping and murdering Ms Scott in April last year

After getting a 'rape kit' from his home, Stanford dragged Ms Scott into a store room and physically and sexually assaulted her before stabbing her in the neck with a large knife

Aaron Leeson-Woolley made an emotional visit to a makeshift memorial for his fiancee Stephanie after her body was discovered