https://sputniknews.com/politics/201610111046210327-us-missile-defense-space-threat/
193
19
"The US missile defense system is posing a threat to the free use of outer space by any country. Its anti-satellite capabilities are one of the reasons why the US is opposed to any agreements that ban placing weapons in outer space," Lt.Gen. Viktor Poznikhir said.

He added that the Standard Missile 3 (SM-3 Block IIA) with increased destruction area allow to destroy Russian and Chinese spacecraft.

"Moreover, given the global nature of the actions of the ships equipped with interceptor missiles, the US will be able to interfere in space-related activities of any country," Poznikhir stressed.

© AFP 2016/ DANIEL MIHAILESCU Beijing: US Missile Defense in Europe Poses 'Direct Threat' to Russia

The first deputy chief of the Main Operational Directorate of the Russian General Staff also said that the deployment of the global missile defense network by the United States is not linked to Iran or North Korea, but aims to gain strategic superiority over Russia and China.

Lt. Gen. Viktor Poznikhir added that North Korea was only demonstrating a possibility to create ballistic long-range missiles, while it was absolutely inappropriate to talk about Iran’s threat following the nuclear deal.

"The decision of the United States to create a global missile defense system is not a response to Iran or North Korea’s missile threats. It is based on the desire to gain military superiority over Russia and China," Poznikhir said at a briefing at the Xiangshan Forum.

The US global missile defense network creates a powerful impact component for a possible decapitation strike against Russia and China, Lt. Gen. Viktor Poznikhir said.

He stressed that through the expansion of the missile defense system the United States were creating a powerful striking component for potential "decapitation strikes" against Russia and China.

The deputy chief said that the true objectives of the establishment of the US global missile defense system is to reduce the potential of Russian nuclear power and the ability of complete zeroing of China's nuclear capacity, as well as expanding of abilities for the destruction of the Earth's artificial satellites on low orbits.