http://www.dnaindia.com/india/report-dna-evening-must-reads-india-crushes-nz-to-win-test-series-9-injured-in-attack-on-jk-paramilitary-convoy-and-more-2263277
190
19
1) India v/s New Zealand: Pujara and Ashwin help Kohli's boys complete clean sweep

Cheteshwar Pujara struck his eighth test century and off-spinner Ravichandran Ashwin engineered another spectacular batting collapse to help India crush New Zealand by 321 runs in the third test and complete a 3-0 series sweep on Tuesday. Ashwin, who claimed 6-81 in the first innings, resumed his role as New Zealand's wrecker-in-chief, claiming 7-59 as the tourists, chasing 475 for an improbable win, were dismissed for 153 to lose inside four days. Read more...

2) Entire Kashmir is ours; 'gau raksha' integral part of our Constitution: RSS Chief Mohan Bhagwat

Asserting that Pakistan was the key element behind instigating violence in the Valley, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) Chief Mohan Bhagawat on Tuesday sent a message to the hostile neighbour that Kashmir is an integral part of India and so is Gilgit-Baltistan. Addressing the RSS cadres who were sporting full pants, as the Sangh officially cast away its trademark khaki shorts, Bhagwat stated that the unrest in Kashmir is being induced from across the LoC and it is a fact not hidden from anyone and the whole world knows. Read more...

3) Jammu & Kashmir: At least nine injured in grenade attack on paramilitary convoy in Shopian

At least nine persons, including two security force personnel were injured in a grenade attack on a paramilitary convoy in Jammu and Kashmir's Shopian district on Tuesday. Militants hurled the grenade at the CRPF personnel in Shopian town at around 11.40 AM, resulting in injuries to two civilians and two security personnel, a police official said. Read more...

4) Samsung announces a total halt to production of Galaxy Note 7

Samsung told customers worldwide today to stop using their Galaxy Note 7 smartphones as it struggled to contain a snowballing safety crisis that threatens to derail the powerhouse global brand. The South Korean conglomerate also called a halt to worldwide sales and exchanges of the troubled handset, as the federal US consumer regulator issued an alarming warning of the possible dangers the device posed to its owners, their families, and homes. Read more...

5) Top Pak journalist who reported rift between civilian govt & military barred from leaving country

A prominent journalist has been barred from leaving Pakistan after he reported on a suspected rift between civilian and military leaderships during a crucial meeting in which the ISI was told its support for terrorist groups was leaving the country globally isolated. Cyril Almeida, a columnist and reporter for the Dawn, tweeted that he has been told he has been put on 'Exit Control List' - a system of border control maintained by Pakistan government under an ordinance which allows it to bar people whose names appear on the list from leaving the country. Read more...