http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3831618/Whitehall-thinks-soldiers-bad-says-former-Armed-Forces-chief-attacks-government-witch-hunt-troops-historic-incidents.html
190
19
British troops are being hounded over historic incidents in Iraq and Afghanistan because the Establishment thinks soldiers are ‘bad’ and terrorists are ‘freedom fighters’, a former head of the Armed Forces claimed yesterday.

General Sir David Richards, ex-chief of the defence staff, said there was an ‘instinct’ in Whitehall that British soldiers ‘aren’t good’.

In an excoriating attack on the Government, he said nobody has ‘the guts’ to say that view was ‘rubbish’.

General Sir David Richards, ex-chief of the defence staff, said there was an ‘instinct’ in Whitehall that British soldiers ‘aren’t good’

General Sir David Richards presenting medals to Gurkhas from 2RGR at a parade marking the end of their Afghanistan tour in 2009

His comments were supported by a decorated officer now facing prosecution, who said officials viewed soldiers as ‘a load of thugs to hire’.

It is the first time Sir David has spoken out about the witch-hunt against British troops since the Mail exposed the scandal last year.

He and two other former generals yesterday hit out at the taxpayer-funded probes into the actions of soldiers who served in Iraq and Afghanistan.

In an interview, Sir David also apologised to troops who have faced as many as five investigations into one single incident.

He said he was ‘sorry’ the military did not identify that legal claims would grow into a ‘many-headed hydra’.

Speaking on BBC Two’s Victoria Derbyshire programme, Sir David said: ‘I’m first of all very sorry that actually we didn’t identify the affect it was going to have.

General Sir David Richards (left) with David Cameron and Lt Col Andy Harrison (right) in Helmand province, Afghanistan in 2010

‘To begin with, in 2010, 2011 it didn’t affect our lives at all. It was only subsequently that we began to see in my time that it was growing as a many-headed hydra.’

Asked why this was happening, he said: ‘I think this comes out of this instinct somewhere in Whitehall, within the Establishment, that basically soldiers aren’t good and freedom fighters, we call them terrorists, kill 3,000 people in one go but in the minds of some of these people they are somehow quite good and we are not so we’ve got to right that balance.

‘And it has grown from that, no one has got the guts to say that’s rubbish.

‘The idea we’ve got hundreds if not thousands of soldiers who are culpable, anyone who knows any army, let only the British Army, knows this is not true. There was a fundamental flaw in its inception.’

General Sir Mike Jackson

His comments were echoed by a decorated officer who faces possible prosecution over the death of an Iraq over a decade ago. He told the Mail: ‘I think that’s correct, they think we are a load of thugs to hire.’

The officer, who wishes to remain anonymous, was cleared in 2006 only to then be arrested by the Iraq Historical Allegations Team (Ihat) in 2015. He now faces fresh manslaughter charges.

He said: ‘I am facing the maximum sentence of life imprisonment. The untold cruelties of this process have destroyed my life, it has destroyed my career, has broken me, and the army just don’t seem to care.’

General Sir Mike Jackson, who was head of the Army when Britain sent troops into Iraq and Afghanistan, said he wanted to see the ‘burden lifted’ from innocent soldiers.

He added: ‘We are the British Army, we are not some rabble. We have our absolute standards and they must be pursued...

‘That does not include soldiers who find themselves subject to an investigation on the basis of cooked-up allegations.’

It is also the first time Sir Mike has spoken publicly about soldiers being hounded.

Lord Dannatt, who succeeded Sir Mike as head of the Army in 2006, said ‘nervous’ authorities had ‘veered too much on behalf of those making the allegations’.

General Sir Mike Jackson, who was head of the Army when Britain sent troops into Iraq and Afghanistan, said he wanted to see the ‘burden lifted’ from innocent soldiers

He said it was ‘definitely harmful’ for operational effectiveness, adding: ‘We need to wind these investigations up as quickly as possible.’

Former Army captain and Tory MP Johnny Mercer said: ‘Now we are facing one of the most serious injustices in British military history.

‘I’ve seen our servicemen being dragged through the courts for years, being cleared of wrongdoing only to face repeated investigations, endless questioning and living under the constant threat of being tried for war crimes.’

Another soldier, who was been dragged through multiple probes, described how his ordeal was worse than going to war. He was cleared by a court martial in 2006 only to face a probe by Ihat.