http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/Uri-terror-attack-No-more-tooth-for-tooth-for-one-tooth-complete-jaw-says-BJPs-Ram-Madhav/articleshow/54402287.cms
190
19
terror attack in Uri +

caused 17 soldiers to be martyred +

Prime Minister has promised +

launch cross-border attacks +

sponsoring terrorism and supporting terrorist organizations +

NEW DELHI: A tooth for a tooth isn't enough to avenge yesterday's. "For one tooth, the complete jaw. Days of so-called strategic restraint are over," wrote senior BJP leader Ram Madhav in a Facebook post.The attack, which India says has all the makings - and markings - of being a Pakistan-sponsored one,"To avenge yesterday's Uri terror attack thethat those behind the Uri terror attack will not go unpunished. That should be the way forward. .... If terrorism is the instrument of the weak and coward, restraint in the face of repeated terror attacks betrays inefficiency and incompetence. India should prove otherwise," Madhav, BJP general secretary wrote.The BJP leader's comments come even as there is increased clamour to hit back at Pakistan - hard. The Army has also asked the Centre toon terrorist training camps across the Line of Control. It wants the government to consider "limited but punitive cross-border strikes" to send an unequivocal message to Pakistan.India's war on terror is "in a decisive stage" after the Uri attack, said BJP president Amit Shah yesterday."Pakistan is constantly trying to unstable India by. India has been fighting relentlessly against terror and now the war is in a decisive stage. The martyrdom of our brave martyrs will not go in vain at any cost and the government is moving towards right direction,"Shah said.Union minister Jitendra Singh , too, used similar language, calling not just for condemnation of the attacks but for striking Pakistan where it hurts."We have known long enough who are behind sponsoring terrorism against India particularly in Jammu and Kashmir. I think time has come to call their bluff and give them a befitting reply," the minister of state in Prime Minister's Office said. "I think that simply calling it an act of cowardice does not suffice, because not responding would also be cowardice," Singh said.The Minister said "those who tend to put India's security or India's confidence to test would be given a befitting response.""It is a disturbing moment and a moment of introspection. I shudder to think how can the nation ever and ever repay for such supreme and ultimate sacrifice of our jawans," he said.With inputs from PTI