http://www.dailynews.lk/?q=2016/08/24/law-order/91285
190
19
Russian tourist drowns

A 61-year-old Russian tourist who was rescued when he got into difficulty while bathing at Koggala beach, died at Karapitiya hospital on Monday night. The incident occurred at around 7.30 p.m. The post mortem was due yesterday. Habaraduwa Police is investigating.

Duo arrested with stolen gold

Two suspects who allegedly broke into a house in Negombo and robbed jewelery worth Rs. 2.5 million were arrested with the stolen gold by Negombo Division Unsolved Crime Unit on Monday. One of them had broke into the house while other aided the main suspect.

They had melted the stolen jewelery into 308.22 grammes of gold pieces. The suspects, residents of Wellampitiya and Modara were handed over to Negombo Police for further legal procedures.

Teen among four arrested with heroin

Four suspects were arrested with 57.2 grams of heroin in Colombo by the police in separate raids yesterday.

One of them was arrested with 45.29 grams of heroin and Rs. 214,230 in his possession, near the Babapulle bridge by Maligawatte Police. The Colombo Crime Division (CCD) arrested a teenager with 5.8 grammes of heroin in his possession near a community hall in Saviyapara in Grandpass. The CCD also arrested a third suspect with 3.1 grams of heroin in his possession at Sathamma Watta in the same area.

Woman hit by train

A woman, seriously injured when she was knocked down by a train in Padukka, succumbed to the injuries on admission to Padukka hospital on Monday evening. The victim was identified as K. Dona Minupriyani, 33, a resident of Udumulla in Padukka. The train was plying from Colombo to Avissawella. Padukka Police is investigating.

Woman dead, 17 injured in accident

A woman died and 17 others including two children were hospitalized after a private bus carrying a group of pilgrims went out of control and turned turtle in Nachchikuda on Monday. The injured were admitted to Jaffna hospital where P Mary Annaraththi, 66, succumbed to the injuries. The injured include, the driver, 8 men, six women and two children. The incident occurred at the 41 KM post along the Jaffna - Mannar road.

Fire in forest reserve doused

A fire erupted in Kirimetithenna reserve in Balangoda was controlled by the people in the area and a the officers of Balangoda Police on Monday evening.

More than four acres of forest were destroyed in the fire. Balangoda Police is investigating.

Muzzle loader seized

A suspect was arrested with a locally made muzzle loader sans a permit at Millattewa by Girandurukotte Police on Monday evening.

He was to be produced before the Mahiyanganaya Magistrate's Courts yesterday.