http://www.philstar.com/cebu-news/2016/08/23/1616412/four-drug-links-shot-dead-across-province
190
19
CEBU, Philippines - Four men with alleged links to the drug trade were shot dead by unidentified assailants during recent attacks in Mandaue City, Bantayan Island, and Minglanilla town.

In Barangay Banilad, Mandaue City, yesterday dawn, Leo Yap, 38 , of Sitio Oril was gunned down by one of two men on a motorcycle, said Senior Inspector Janelito Marquez, chief of the Casuntingan Police Station.

Marquez said Yap surrendered to their police station following Oplan Tokhang last month but did not submit himself to further profiling and validation.

Police also received reports that Yap went back to selling drugs and that most of his clients were taxi drivers in one of the motels in the said barangay.

"Wala siya nihuman og profiling kutob ra siya sa pagkuha sa iyahang fingerprint unya nisibat," Marquez said.

Based on their investigation, Yap was loitering in the area when one of the assailants came up and shot him. Three empty .45 cal. shells were recovered from the crime scene.

Freeman ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch:

Just a few hours earlier in Barangay Tipolo, Joseph Voltaire Vocales, 28, a resident of Retuya Compound, was also shot by men on a motorcycle.

Senior Police Officer 2 Remedio Arciaga of the Subangdaku Police Station said Vocales, a trisikad driver, died from six gunshot wounds. He added Vocales has a previous record in their police station involving illegal drugs.

Investigation revealed Vocales was waiting for passengers along Pacencia Street in the compound when the assailants drove up to him and shot him. Emergency and Rescue Unit Foundation responded to the alarm but he was already dead when they got there.

In Barangay Suba, Bantayan town, sidewalk vendor Cristobal Ancajas, alias "Tobal", 50, was shot dead Sunday morning by an unidentified assailant while he was selling his wares.

Police Officer 2 Jeoram Desucatan of Bantayan Police Station said Ancajas was in their watch list as he was placed by intelligence reports as a drug personality, although Ancajas denied this.

"There was a single incident nga ang kargamento gikan Cebu City diin naka consign sa iyaha, natagak naay nanggawas believed to be shabu but this was denied by him when he went to our station in November last year nagpa-blotter," he said.

He also said despite their suspicions Ancajas was not subject to Oplan Tokhang.

The unidentified assailant went up to Ancajas around 11:50 a.m. and shot him thrice in the chest. Ancajas was rushed by his helper to the Bantayan District Hospital but the doctor declared him dead on arrival.

Desuctan said the attack was filmed by a security camera but the assailant's face was obscured by a ball cap. Witnesses in the area also did not get a good look at the assailant because the incident happened so fast.

In Barangay Tulay, Minglanilla town, a man was shot dead also by unidentified assailants around 4:20 p.m. also last Sunday while visiting his partner at the Bureau of Jail Management Penology.

Arnulfo Engbino, alias "Anol", 43, a resident of the place, went out to buy soft drinks when two men on a motorcycle shot him in the head.

After the shooting, the assailant fired twice in the air to scare off bystanders in the area and immediately escaped. Engbino was rushed to the Minglanilla District Hospital but declared dead on arrival.

Police recovered two empty .45 cal. shells at the crime scene and a P500 bill.

Reports said that victim was a drug pusher in the place, but Police Officer 2 Micky Plarisan of Minglanilla said that they are still checking his records. What is sure is that it was Engbino's partner, Macedonia Avila, who was serving time in BJMP facility for illegal drugs.

Drug den 'owners' charged

Meanwhile, two persons are now facing criminal charges for allegedly maintaining drug dens in two barangays in Cebu City.

The Office of the Cebu City Prosecutor found sufficient ground to hold William "Onot" Gengoyon, 26, for trial for alleged violation of Section 6 of Republic Act 9165 (Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of 2002).

The law punishes anyone maintaining a den, dive or resort where any dangerous drug is used or sold in any form, with life imprisonment and a fine ranging from P500,000 to P10 million.

The case stemmed from an Oplan TokHang operation of the police in Sitio Sampaguita and neighboring areas last August 13. Police said they came upon a concerned citizen who led them to the den allegedly maintained by Gengoyon.

Police said the door was wide open and they saw three men later identified as Gengoyon, Bienvenido Cañedo, 50; and Alexander Daug, 31, around a table. The police went to investigate and found drug paraphernalia, such as tin foil and a lighter on the table.

The complaints against Gengoyon's companions, however, are still pending before the prosecution office.

In another complaint, the prosecution also indicted a certain Glend Ybañez, 34, for the same offense and whose drug den was located at Sitio Sto. Niño, Barangay Labangon

Last August 11, police were conducting deterrent measures together with the barangay tanods of Labangon when they spotted five men in a makeshift shelter. Like in the first case, the door of the house was reportedly wide open, and they saw the suspects reportedly preparing drug paraphernalia.

Aside from Ybañez, police also arrested Rowena Sibomit, 42; Rodel Flores, 32; John Tabb Hunter, 24; and Mark Jason Pacaanas, 26.

Police also seized six small sachets of shabu from Ybañez.

PNP anniversary

Meanwhile, as the PNP celebrated its 115th Police Service Anniversary yesterday, Police Regional Office-7 director Noli Taliño presented the achievements of the PNP to his men and Presidential Assistant to the Visayas Michael Lloyd Dino, who was guest of honor in the celebrations held here.

In his speech, Taliño said PRO-7 conducted 751 anti-drug operations which led to the arrest of 1,130 drug personalities with a total of 2,272 grams of shabu seized, which cost 26.5 million pesos. A total of 1,295 cases were also filed in court.

During Oplan Tokhang, they visited 41,596 houses which resulted to 71,123 surrenderers. They also captured 15 high-value targets and killed 65 drug personalities in legitimate police operations. — Christell Fatima M. Tudtud, Mylen P. Manto, Iris Mariani B. Algabre, and Christopher Kevin S. Ocampo, USJ-R intern/BRP (FREEMAN)