http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/Uri-terror-attack-Demands-rise-for-befitting-reply-to-Pakistan/articleshow/54404645.cms
190
19
Uri terror attack +

killed 17 soldiers +

high-level meetings +

PM Narendra Modi +

security officials found Pakistani markings on weapons +

India pays tribute to Uri attack bravehearts 1 6 India pays tribute to Uri attack bravehearts Jammu & Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, senior Army and police officials in paying tributes at the wreath laying ceremony for the 17 soldiers killed in the militant attack on an Army base in Uri. (ANI photo) India pays tribute to Uri attack bravehearts While two of the 17 soldiers hail from Jammu & Kashmir, rest of them belong to Uttar Pradesh (four), Bihar (three), Maharashtra (three), West Bengal (two), Jharkhand (two) and Rajasthan (one). India pays tribute to Uri attack bravehearts Wreaths on the coffins of the martyred soldiers were laid at a somber ceremony held at headquarters of the Chinar Corps in Srinagar at Badamibagh. (ANI photo) India pays tribute to Uri attack bravehearts General officer Commanding of the Chinar Corps Lt General Satish Dua and Director General of Police K Rajendra Kumar were among senior security officials who laid wreaths to pay their respects. (ANI photo) India pays tribute to Uri attack bravehearts The Army has made arrangements for transporting the mortal remains of all the martyrs directly to their respective hometowns. (ANI photo) India pays tribute to Uri attack bravehearts People during a candle light vigil in Lucknow on Sunday to pray for soldiers killed in the Uri terror attack. (PTI photo)

NEW DELHI: On the day after thethat, it appears that shock has given way to rage among citizens, politicians and the armed forces. The gloves are off."Decisive action needed against Pak" and "Give Pak befitting reply'' seem to be the words on everyone's lips. There were severaltoday with top government officials and armed forces biggies to discuss the country's response to the attack.remains undecided about attending the SAARC summit in Pakistan later this year, and foreign minister Sushma Swaraj will have the Uri attack on top of her agenda when as she heads to New York for the UN General Assembly , sources told ANI.Only Union minister General VK Singh (retired) cautioned that "we cannot take action on (an) emotional level" and added that the Prime Minister will soon make a decision on how to proceed."A befitting reply must be given to those who attack security forces," said the daughter of SK Vidarthi, one of the soldiers martyred yesterday, to ANI today.Terrorists and those who support terror should be given no quarter, said the father of an earlier martyr."It's very painful to see such incidents on our soil. This is due to the lopsided policy of the Indian government (both) at present and (in the) past towards Pakistan, terrorists and in particular towards the Hurriyat conference," said NK Kalia, the father of Captain Saurabh Kalia, a Kargil War martyr, to ANI. He, too, was referring likely to a perception that India doesn't take strong enough action against perpetrators of terror.The demands for strong action rose from within the BJP government as well."In this hour of grief, whole nation is united. It's time to hit back," said minister of state for defence, Subhash Bhamre. "The supreme sacrifice of 17 brave soldiers will not go in vain," vowed Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar Some people cited yesterday's killing of 3 Pakistani soldiers in Peshawar by ISIS men, not to gloat, but to underscore that terrorism affects everyone."The fight against terrorism is collective and global. Every terrorist act touches everyone. The sooner some countries, especially our neighbour, realise it, the better it is," said Congress leader AM Singhvi, on what's believed to be the first ISIS attack on Pakistan army."Whatever is happening in Pakistan is result of their own wrongdoings, said Union minister MA Naqvi, also about the Peshawar killings.Earlier today, Union home minister Rajnath Singh called a high-level meeting with National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and top officials from the ministries of Home and Defence, the Army, the paramilitary forces and the chiefs of intelligence agencies briefed Singh on the latest in the Kashmir Valley as well as along the Line of Control, official sources told PTI. Union Home Secretary Rajiv Mehrishi, who postponed his visit to Srinagar, also attended the meeting.Strategies to deal with the fresh challenges arising out of yesterday's terror attack at the Army Brigade Headquarters, located along the LoC, were among the issues discussed at the meeting, PTI said.Even as Pakistan continues to deny it had anything to do with the Uri attack -used at the terror site - the international community came out strongly in support of India today as well."We call on States to fight against terror groups operating on their territory or from their territory against others. France remains at India's side in the combat against terrorism," France's Foreign Affairs Ministry said today.Soldier stands guard near the site of the Uri attack. (AFP)UK's Foreign Minister Boris Johnson spoke to Sushma Swaraj earlier today saying the UK, too, stands shoulder-to-shoulder with India in defeating terrorism.In the meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is chairing a high-level meeting about the Uri attack. Home Minister Rajnath Singh and Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar are at the meeting."High-level meetings are going on, let's be sure befitting reply will be given (to terror supporters)," minister Bhamre said.