http://leadership.ng/news/547460/killers-of-4-soldiersin-bayelsa-are-members-of-niger-delta-avengers-ods
190
19
Authorities of the Niger Delta Military Task Force known as Operation Delta Safe (ODS) has confirmed that the three arrested killers of four soldiers at a security post in Nembe-Ogbolomabiri Community in Nembe Local Government area of Bayelsa State are members of the Niger Delta Avengers terrorists.

The commander of the ODS, Rear Admiral Joseph Okojie,while speaking with news men yesterday in Yenagoa, investigations showed that members of the Niger Delta Avengers disguised as burial parties attacked and killed four of our soldiers at their duty post in Nembe.

According to Okojie,” They absconded with a gunboat and some ammunition. ‎Their illicit wealth is being degraded hence they resort to attacking our locations.Since then, own troops stepped up operations in the areas hitherto inhabited by these bandits. Consequently, on 13 August 2016, our troops located and raided their hideout in a camp at Saraba creek near Okiama community in Okigbene in Southern Ijaw Local Government Area, Bayelsa State.”

Though the ODS Commander,Rear Admiral Joseph Okojie was silent on the purported contribution of the members of the State Security Task Force on Waterways led by a known Ex-Militant Leader, General Africa, said several items including military accoutrements were recovered from them.

“In pursuit of these discoveries, a coordinated patrol was further launched and yesterday 22 August 2016, own troops at about 1400 hours (2pm) located and engaged these criminals in a shoot out in which some of them were believed to have been killed, 3 suspects arrested and large quantities of arms, ammunition and the gunboat that was taken from Nembe on 8 August 2016 recovered.”

“In the mop up operation on the militants camp at Epebu creek in Southern Ijaw Local Government Area, the following items were recovered: Quantity 9 x AK 47 rifles, Quantity 1 x FN rifle,‎ Quantity 4 x HK 21 MGs., Quantity 1 x G3 MG.Quantity 3 x GPMGs.”

“Others include Quantity 20 x AK 47 magazines, Quantity 2 x G3 magazines,Quantity 1 x FN magazine, Quantity 1 x container of gun powder,‎

Quantity 1 x Epenal gun boat, Quantity 1,145 rounds x 7.62mm metal link., Quantity 2,485 rounds x 7.62mm ball cartons, Quantity 370 rounds x 7.62mm special ammunition and Quantity 1,356 rounds x 7.62mm NATO.”

“The Joint Task Force conducted this operation professionally and avoided collateral damage. We shall continue to sustain this approach which is in line with global best practices. Let me use this opportunity reiterate the fact that no criminal would go free, wherever they are, be rest assured we will get them and ensure they face justice. Let me re affirm the commitment of Joint Task Force Operation DELTA SAFE of its resolve to ensure peace and economic stability in the region. ”

“Fortunately there are windows of opportunity provided by the Federal Government for amicable resolution of grievances by any aggrieved groups. Rather than engage in heinous crimes or self help, they should seize the opportunity and embrace peace or face full wrath of the law. In the same vein, those misguided elements that bear the unachievable and unfortunate message of disunity through declaration of imaginary independence must have a rethink”.

“The Joint Task Force believes these unscrupulous elements have ample time and opportunities to channel their grievances properly. I must commend our gallant troops for their resoluteness during the operation. Let me reassure law abiding citizens to go about their normal businesses. We will do all within our limit to ensure safe waterways for legitimate businesses. I solicit for cooperation from members of the public in providing timely information as we continue to fish out these criminal from their hideout. God preserve Nigeria and bless her.”