http://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/world/family-completely-wiped-out-after-mum-brother-two-friends-killed-on-gold-coast-theme-park-ride/ar-AAjm9ax
193
19
A mother says her family has been "completely wiped out" after two of her children were killed alongside two of their friends on the Thunder River Rapids ride at Dreamworld on the Gold Coast.



Kate Goodchild, 32, her brother Luke Dorsett, his partner Roozi Araghi and a 42-year-old woman were killed when the theme park ride malfunctioned yesterday afternoon, the Daily Telegraph reports.

Mrs Goodchild's daughter had been on the raft but was thrown to safety, the newspaper reports.

Grandmother Kim Dorsett said the family was heartbroken.

"My family have been completely wiped out," she told the Daily Telegraph.

© Nine News Kate Goodchild was one of four people killed at Dreamworld. (Facebook)

"I have three children and two of them are now gone.

"My eight-month-old granddaughter is never going to know her mother and that truly breaks my heart."

The park is expected to remain closed for several days as investigators examine the scene.



Two of the victims were ejected from the raft while the other two were trapped as the ride malfunctioned.

© Nine News Luke Dorsett was one of four people killed at Dreamworld. (Facebook) The Dreamworld website earlier said the ride was meant to be closed yesterday "for annual maintenance" and would not reopen until next week. That information was later removed from the site, though the theme park is yet to respond to requests for comment.

A witness at Dreamworld said there had been problems on the Thunder River Rapids Ride earlier in the day and engineers were called in.

© Nine News Roozi Araghi was one of four people killed at Dreamworld. (Facebook)

"We were waiting there for about half an hour and the engineers had to come," the visitor told 9NEWS.

"They drained all the water out and then had to fill it all back up."

"We were sat there for about 30-40 minutes at least."

It is believed the ride was also drained while attempts were made to rescue the four people.

Aerial footage shows one of the water ride's six-seat circular rafts flipped on the conveyor belt that usually delivers them back to the boarding and disembarking area.

© AAP Image/Scott Bailey Emergency services vehicles are seen outside the Dreamworld theme park at Coomera on the Gold Coast, Tuesday, Oct. 25, 2016. Four people have reportedly died in a horror accident on a ride at Dreamworld on the Gold Coast. 9NEWS understands the victims were possibly from the same family and may have been visiting from interstate.

Witness Lia Capes told the ABC she was queued to go on the ride when she saw people running out crying.

"I was speaking to one of the guys and he said it was the raft or the boat thing in front of him, the whole thing flipped and everyone was screaming," she said.

Another witness said she had been on the ride about 10 minutes before the accident.

"It wasn't long before that we were on it, and then the park started getting shut down and we saw the helicopters," she told 9NEWS outside the park.



"They were walking out and they heard that the mother, the father and the uncle got seriously injured and possibly died."

Dreamworld CEO Craig Davidson said his company was "shocked".

"Dreamworld confirms that at approximately 2.20pm today, an incident occurred on the Thunder River Rapids Ride that resulted in the tragic deaths of four people," he said.

"At this stage the park is closed and Dreamworld is working closely with police and emergency services and authorities to establish the facts around the incident.

"We are deeply shocked and saddened by this and our hearts and our thoughts go to the families involved and to their loved ones."

Queensland Police Service Inspector Tod Reid said a crime scene had been established and workplace health and safety officers, forensic crash unit officers and the state Coroner were attending.

"Police were called to the site at Coomera around 2.20pm following reports that a number of people had been injured by a conveyor belt," a police statement read.

"Four adults have been confirmed as being deceased."

According to Dreamworld, visitors as young as two years old can ride the Thunder River Rapids, but under-fours must be accompanied by an adult.

Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull and other politicians paid tribute to the victims and their families.

"I'm very saddened to learn of the tragic accident at Dreamworld earlier today," Mr Turnbull said.

"Theme parks are a place for family fun and happiness, not tragedy. This is a very, very, sad, tragic event. Our thoughts and prayers are with the families of those who lost their lives."

"This is a very sad day, and we trust there will be a thorough investigation into the causes of this accident over the days to follow."

Gold Coast Mayor Tom Tate called the day "a very sad day for our city".

"Our thoughts are with the families of those affected – and the emergency staff in attendance," he said in a statement.

"I urge everyone to show the respect needed as the relevant authorities undertake investigations in to what has occurred.

"A truly sad day for all."

Mr Fuller said first-responders had been "deeply affected" by the scene and some were being counselled.

A report will be prepared for the coroner.

Dreamworld shut down after the accident, and visitors could be seen gathered outside the park at 4pm AEST.

Park owners Ardent Leisure announced Dreamworld would remain closed tomorrow, while their shares fell 7.8 percent on news of the tragedy.

The Thunder River Rapids Ride is Australia's only river rapids ride and opened in December 1986.

Dreamworld's Rocky Hollow Log Ride was shut down in April this year when a man fell from the ride and nearly drowned.