http://www.ibtimes.co.in/how-isis-has-started-dangerous-practice-by-turning-readily-available-gadgets-into-deadly-weapons-699619
192
19
The debate on whether technology is a boon or a bane will continue because miscreants keep using helpful gadgets for dreadful purposes. Now, people will no longer look at commercially available drones with excitement after its misuse by the Islamic State group - also known as Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (Isis).

It is not new that Isis has been using drones for survey, but now, they have started using it to kill people. According to the New York Times, two Kurdish fighters died last week after a model aircraft size drone they had shot down exploded.

It was the first time that Isis has successful delivered explosive with the help of commercial drones and killed Kurdish fighters.

American commanders in Iraq warned its troops to treat all small flying aircraft as a potential explosive device after Isis tried to use drones to kill people on a couple of occasions last month.

It was reported in December last year that Kurdish forces fighting the Islamic State shot down two drones carrying explosives last December. The plan was foiled but it gave a clear picture of how commercial gadgets like drones can be misused.

The United States military officials said that the Pentagon is working on fighting drones menace, having requested an additional $20 million to help fight the new mode of attack, reported the New York Times.

The American military uses drones as large as small passenger planes but Isis uses small drones available for purchase on popular online retailers to carry explosives. This has made it tough for the military to detect and shoot it down.

The use of drones to carry out terror attacks has not only sent an alarm to the military and unsuspected civilians but also a threat to companies like DJI that makes such devices for commercial sale.

DJI, which holds about 60 percent to 70 percent of commercial drone market, said after the use the device by Isis in Iraq that people who carry out such acts should be severely punished.

"The use of consumer-drone technology to harm anyone is deplorable. Any loss of life or injury in such a manner is tragic. Those who carry out such acts should be prosecuted to the full extent of the law. When governments come to us with lawful requests, DJI is ready to provide whatever technical assistance we can to those investigating this and other attacks," DJI said in a statement.