http://www.news.com.au/national/breaking-news/some-15000-vic-homes-still-without-power/news-story/9adaab99f48b646f77bd080072c4be26
193
19
Helen Velissaris and Angus Livingston Australian Associated Press

Thousands of Victorian homes will spend a third night without power after the weekend's deadly winds wreaked havoc across much of the state.

Crews continue to try to restore power to more than 10,000 properties that have been without electricity since Sunday, mostly in Melbourne's outer eastern suburbs and nearby hills.

AusNet Services spokesman Hugo Armstrong said power would be restored to most customers on Tuesday.

"We hope to get the bulk of those customers on supply at some point today but certainly some (works) will run through to tomorrow," he told AAP.

Almost 130,000 properties were left without power on Sunday as wind gusts of more than 100km/h lashed the state.

The government is talking to the national energy market regulator about securing its supply and reducing the impact of future severe weather events.

"The resilience of our electricity network is an important matter for our government but we can't pretend these are issues that can be easily resolved," Energy Minister Lily D'Ambrosio said.

Emergency Services Minister James Merlino said the government would consider additional support for affected communities but the immediate focus was the clean-up and restoring power.

A woman was killed on Sunday when a tree fell on her Millgrove house and at least 20 others - many injured by flying debris - were hospitalised.

Authorities have responded to 5932 calls for help and continue to warn people to stay clear of trees.

"The ground is still soaked and soft so trees are still likely to fall," an SES spokesman said.

People are also being told to be careful consuming food that might have defrosted once the power went off.

Neighbours are being encouraged to check on vulnerable community members and help them relocate if they're not coping.

Flood warnings are still current in the north of the state, but an evacuation warning for Ulupna Island on the Murray River has been cancelled with floodwaters subsiding.

The threat of flooding has now stabilised in the north and central areas of the state.