http://indianexpress.com/article/india/india-news-india/delhi-inter-state-fake-coins-racket-cop-suspended-3077784/
190
19
Earlier, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer) M K Tiwari said the accused identified as Naresh Kumar, was nabbed during a surprise check in Rohini by the police team. Earlier, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer) M K Tiwari said the accused identified as Naresh Kumar, was nabbed during a surprise check in Rohini by the police team.

A police inspector, whose team busted a fake coin manufacturing unit in outer Delhi’s Bawana Industrial area, was placed under suspension after the investigating officer (IO) in the case accused him of corruption.

Sources said the complaint against Inspector Samarpal Singh was made by a sub-inspector, who met Special Commissioner Of Police (Law and Order) S B K Singh and informed him about the misconduct of his in-charge. Delhi Police had sealed off a factory manufacturing fake coins after nabbing a 42-year-old man in outer Delhi’s Rohini area and recovering fake coins with a face value of Rs 40,000 from his possession.

“After arresting one of the employees of factory, Inspector Samarpal Singh struck a deal with the owner of the factory and took a hefty amount from him after promising him that he will not show his name in their investigation,” police sources claimed.

Sources also stated the Inspector after recovering at least two plastic bags containing 20 packets of the counterfeit coins, raided the factory from where he recovered some other packets, but did not show them police recovery. Each packet contained 100 coins each. The fake coins ranged from Rs 1 to Rs 10.

After meeting with the IO, the Special CP immediately called the concerned Joint Commissioner of Police (northern Range) and asked him to initiate a departmental inquiry against the inspector. “Initially, Singh (the Special CP) was planning to take harsh action against him, but the matter was later handed over to the vigilance branch,” added sources.

Earlier, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer) M K Tiwari said the accused identified as Naresh Kumar, was nabbed during a surprise check in Rohini by the police team.

“Kumar was driving a Swift Dzire and was coming from Shahbad Dairy area. When the police team stopped his vehicle, Kumar told them he was an officer from Punjab National Bank. When officers asked for his identity card, police said he refused to show it,” he added.