http://www.business-standard.com/article/news-ani/pm-modi-gives-nod-to-diplomatically-isolate-pak-sources-116091900682_1.html
190
19
PM Modi gives nod to 'diplomatically isolate' Pak: Sources

After giving an assurance of going after the perpetrators of the deadly Uri attack in which 18 army soldiers were killed, Prime Minister Modi on Monday gave the green signal to diplomatically isolate at every international grouping.

According to sources, is to present all actionable evidence against if required at international bodies.

The Indian Permanent Mission is to issue a statement taking on soon after Prime Minister will make his speech at the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA).

Evidence of Pakistan's hand in Uri attack i.e. GPS tracker movements that go back to starting point in Pakistan, Pashto literature, Army marked arms will be given to at the DGMO level, sources add.

is set to raise Uri attack at the 71st UNGA and highlight Pakistan's involvement into the deadly terror strike.

Sources state that External Affairs Minister will strongly emphasize on Pakistan's involvement in the attack in her UNGA speech on September 26.

This development comes after the Prime Minister chaired a high-level meeting at his official residence at 7 Race Course Road here.

Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh, Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar, Finance Minister Arun Jaitley, Army Chief Dalbir Singh, Security Advisor Ajit Doval and other officials were present in the meeting.

has, however, flatly refused New Delhi's claims of Islamabad's involvement in the Uri terror attack, stating that it has become India's traditional tendency to point fingers on them after each terrorist attack.

"Pointing fingers at has become a traditional tendency of after each terrorist attack," the Dawn quoted Foreign Office spokesperson Nafees Zakaria as saying.

"In the past many Indians were involved in the terrorist acts for which had blamed Pakistan," he asserted.

Director General of Military operation Lt. Ranbir Singh yesterday said that the four terrorists, who attacked the military base in Jammu and Kashmir's Uri, belonged to Pakistan's banned terror outfit Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM).

(This story has not been edited by Business Standard staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)

ANI