http://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/3479016/posts
193
19
Skip to comments.

Failed suicide attack on US soldiers in Kuwait

Deutsche Welle ^ | 08 October 2016

Posted on by Lorianne

Kuwaiti officials say the bomb-laden truck failed to detonate, leaving only the truck driver injured. Kuwait has largely been spared from IS attacks, however, officials say they thwarted three such attempts in July.

Kuwaiti security officials arrested a suspected Islamic jihadist after he slammed an explosives laden truck into a vehicle carrying five US soldiers in Kuwait on Saturday.

SNIP

The explosives failed to detonate, and the only person injured in the attack was the Egyptian truck driver identified as Ibrahim Sulaiman. The government did not identify the location of the incident, but said security forces took the alleged perpetrator to the hospital.

"After an initial investigation of the suspect Sulaiman, who was born in 1988, by specialized security apparatus, a hand-written note was found indicating that he had adopted the terrorist Daesh ideology and pledged allegiance to this organization," the state news agency KUNA said, referring to the so-called "Islamic State" (IS).

Kuwait is a US ally, wedged between Saudi Arabia and Iraq at the northern tip of the Persian Gulf. It is part of a 34-nation alliance aimed at countering IS and al Qaeda militants across the Middle East, in particular Iraq, Syria, Libya and Egypt, as well as Afghanistan, which lies outside of the region.

Kuwait has experienced relatively little violence in terms of Islamic militant attacks, but in July the country, which houses US military bases, claims to have foiled three attacks by IS militants. One of the plots included plans to blow up a Shiite mosque.

Deadly attack in 2015

The country suffered its deadliest terror attack in decades in June 2015 when a Saudi suicide bomber detonated explosives inside a Shiite mosque, killing 27 people. IS claimed responsibility for the attack.

Saturday's incident was the first directed against US troops in the oil-rich emirate. Sulaiman, the driver of the truck, was hospitalized with multiple fractures and injuries, according to the Kuwaiti government.

Kuwaiti officials published photos of the aftermath of the crash showing a wrecked garbage truck, as well as a shrapnel-laden suicide belt. The US soldiers were travelling in a white pick-up truck when the left side was smashed by a garbage truck driven by Sulaiman.



TOPICS:

Foreign Affairs

KEYWORDS:





To: Lorianne

Why are soldiers still in Kuwait?



To: Lorianne

Why the hell are we in KUWAIT? Get the hell OUT!! This is madness!!



by 3 posted onby WENDLE (Paul RYNO is a WEASEL!!!)

To: Lorianne

Those soldiers are going to spend a few sleepless nights, I think. THANK GOD the truck didn’t explode. I would be shook up but VERY HAPPY it didn’t go off.



by 4 posted onby dp0622 (IThe only thing an upper crust conservative hates more than a liberal is a middle class conservative)

To: WENDLE

I’m not going to tell you. Think logistics. I’m sure some zoomie that’s never heard the term OPSEC will answer.



To: dfwgator

Kuwait is pretty much a hub for service too and from Iraq and Afghanistan for supply and troops. We’ll probably have bases there for quite some time.



by 6 posted onby patro (Phrogs Forever)

To: Lorianne

The government did not identify the location of the incident, but said security forces took the alleged perpetrator to the hospital. I sure hope that they didn't put panties on his head. /s



by 7 posted onby Zeppo ("Happy Pony is on - and I'm NOT missing Happy Pony")

To: Tailback

Yes . it was carefully observed for vulnerability. But we have faggots and women that should be home MANNING those positions. Total madness. We are the suicide!!



by 8 posted onby WENDLE (Paul RYNO is a WEASEL!!!)

To: dp0622

So the driver is alive and in custody. I’m sure he will talk.



To: Lorianne

My SIL is posted to Kuwait.



by 10 posted onby onona (Honey this isn't Kindergarten. We are in an all out war for the survival of our Country !)

To: dfwgator

Why are soldiers still in Kuwait? Peripheral support and supply structure.



by 11 posted onby trebb (Where in the the hell has my country gone?)

To: dfwgator

We have some large bases there. It’s a strategic location in a country with a “friendly” government. I spent a lot of time there. Our main base is called CFLCC - Central Forces Land Component Command or “seeflick” as we used to call it. It’s south of Kuwait City. Then there’s Camp Buehring which is in the middle of the desert up north by the Iraqi border. Its the main staging base for all forces that go north into Iraq. Both have been there quite a while.



Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works.

FreeRepublic , LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794

FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson