http://en.farsnews.com/newstext.aspx?nn=13950719000932
190
19
Politics

Report: ISIL's Would-Be "Iran Emir" Killed

TEHRAN (FNA)- Security forces have reportedly killed the designated emir of the ISIL in Iran, a Persian-language media outlet reported citing unnamed sources.

Official Tehran and the ISIL have yet to confirm or comment on the report which was published by Pars News on Sept. 27 and cannot be independently verified by FNA.

The circumstances surrounding the attack are consistent with one conducted and reported in August in which authorities said they had killed a high-ranking ISIL member, though the details were murky.

Iranian authorities have announced a series of operations against ISIL operatives attempting to infiltrate Iran to launch attacks.

“The biggest security measure to prevent the formation of ISIL cells in Iran has taken place,” Pars News said.

“Some time ago in one of the border cities of Kermanshah province an individual who was supposed to be announced the Emir of ISIL in Iran was killed in a complex and massive operation with the hard work of intelligence and security forces,” the report said.

“Security sources have not revealed the name of the hunted ISIL man, but some local sources have called him ‘Abu Ayesheh,’ which is not his real name and was only called so in the organization under this name.”

“It is said that Shafi’i Sunnis live in that area [and] that the Shafi’i ulema (clerics) and the people of this region highly cooperated in the success of this operation.”

“Abu Ayesheh was the self-declared leader of DAESH (ISIL) for all of Iran, and DAESH had entered Iran multiple times for operations, but fell in the trap of the Islamic Republic and security systems in all of these operations.”

“This time, Abu Ayesheh himself came to Iran to form DAESH in Iran and was detected during this operation. In this pursuit, a sniper killed him.”

Pars said that the Islamic Revolution Guard Corps (IRGC), Law Enforcement Forces (LEF), and the regular Army cooperated in the operation. The LEF Counter-Terrorism Special Forces (NOPO) snipers had “serious roles” in this operation, according to the report. The Intelligence Ministry was credited for tracking the ISIL operative from within Iraq in cooperation with the IRGC.

The Pars report appears to match some of the details of back-to-back operations last month in Kermanshah Province against two purported ISIL teams in the city of Kermanshah, which is predominantly Shiite Kurdish, and Javanrud County, a Shafi’i Sunni Kurd area close to the border with Iraq.

On Aug. 16, Iranian media first reported that security forces killed three members of a “takfiri terrorist” cell in the city’s Baq-e Abrisham neighborhood. The Kermanshah province LEF chief confirmed to reporters that LEF-NOPO, in coordination with Intelligence Ministry, raided the safe house of the “takfiri” team after it crossed from Iraq, killing all three team members and confiscating one AK-47 rifle, two magazines, and a suicide-bombing belt.

Government officials then revealed that a second operation had taken place on the night of Aug. 15 in Javanrud. They said that six perpetrators were arrested, and that the one suspect killed was a high-ranking ISIL member and an “influential” element based out of Iraq.

The Pars report that cites unnamed intelligence and local sources matches official accounts from the operation in Javanrud. Iranian authorities have yet to publicly speak about whether they have killed the alleged emir of ISIL in Iran attempting to form a cell in the country. However, Iran’s intelligence minister did say that one of the individuals killed was a regional emir.