http://www.india.com/news/india/pampore-terror-attack-pakistan-has-learnt-no-lesson-from-surgical-strikes-1549505/
190
19
Days after Indian Army conducted surgical strike across the Line of Control (LoC), destroying seven terror launch pads in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, terrorists again attacked in Jammu and Kashmir. With fierce gun-battle between security forces and terrorists in Pampore entering the second day, it is very clear now that the Pakistan is no mood to take on terrorists being harboured on its soil. From invitation for swearing-in ceremony to surprise to Lahore on his way back from Kabul, Prime Minister Narendra Modi led government put all efforts to improve relationship with Pakistan. After diplomatic assault on Islamabad boycotting SAARC summit, India conducted surgical strike, giving clear signal that don’t test our patience. However, Pakistan has learnt no lesson from ‘surgical strike’.

India made genuine and sincere efforts to convince Pakistan of the futility of supporting, sponsoring and launching terror. However in return, Pakistan only gave another terror strike. On July 27 last year, three heavily-armed terrorists wearing army fatigues had stormed a police station in Dinanagar town in Gurdaspur district last year killing seven persons, including a Superintendent of Police, before they were gunned down during a day-long operation. When New Delhi was trying to indulge in discussion with Islamabad, two heavily armed terrorist of Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba attacked a BSF convoy in Udhampur on August 5, 2015. Security forces managed to nab one of the terrorists alive. Both the terrorists were Pakistani citizen.

Keeping aside the bitterness, India initiated the process of Foreign Secretary-level talks with Pakistan. But then came the infamous Pathankot attack, where the Pakistani terrorists had succeeded in penetrating into the Indian Air Force base. The Pathankot attack had claimed the lives of seven security personnel while four terrorists were killed. India allowed Pakistani investigators access to parts of the attack site and handed over evidence against Jaish-e-Mohammad chief Maulana Masood Azahr, who conspired the Pathankot attack. On September 18 this year, four heavily armed terrorists attacked Army’s Brigade Headquarters in which 18 Army soldiers were martyred. (ALSO READ: Militancy set to revive in Kashmir: Infiltration in Valley up by 65 per cent)

The Uri attack was the proverbial last nail. India decided to ‘isolate’ Pakistan on diplomatic level exposing Islamabad at UN General Assembly session. The Indian government also went ahead with a covert operation against terrorists having safe haven in Pakistan that shook the entire world. Sadly, nothing has changed since surgical strike. Pakistan army has stepped in cross-border firing, while large number of Pakistan-backed terrorists are leaving no stone unturned to carry out ‘spectacular’ attacks in India. (ALSO READ: Pampore Encounter: Terrorists hiding in EDI building, fierce gunbattle resumes, terror alert issued)

In the last two years, the Indian Army has repeatedly foiled attempts by Pakistan-sponsored terrorist groups to infiltrate into India. Ninety-seven terrorists were gunned down in 2015, of whom 59 were Pakistanis. As per the latest figures released by Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), infiltration in the valley has sparked by 65 per cent in the first six months of 2016. The total number of terrorists who attempted to sneak into the valley in first six months of 2016 is 56.

It’s been very clear that Pakistan political leadership is not strong enough to push its army to act against terrorists roaming freely on their territory. Terrorism has become state policy of Pakistan and it has learnt no lesson from ‘surgical strike’. Pampore terror attack is just another signal for India that Islamabad won’t sit quiet and its misadventure will continue against India.