http://www.thestar.com.my/news/regional/2016/10/11/ramos-duterte-is-a-letdown-fixation-on-drugs-war-costing-philippines-dearly-says-exleader/
193
19
MANILA: The government of Philippine leader Rodrigo Duterte has been a “huge disappointment and letdown”, according to a former president and one of his mentors, bucking popular sentiment and a high opinion poll rating for his first 100 days in office.

In rare criticism of Duterte, former president Fidel Ramos, 88, said the government was “losing badly” by prioritising a controversial war on drugs at the expense of other issues such as poverty, living costs, foreign investment and jobs.

Duterte picked Ramos, in office from 1992-1998, as his special envoy to break the ice with China and manage the fallout from an international arbitration ruling Manila won in July that dented Beijing’s claims to jurisdiction over most of the South China Sea.

Duterte has spoken often of his respect for Ramos, who persuaded him to run in the May election.

Ramos is the only president to score higher than Duterte in a Philippine opinion poll traditionally conducted after the first 90 days of each presidency.

Duterte was rated “very good” with a net satisfaction rating of 64% in a Social Weather Stations Poll last Thursday, behind Ramos at 66%.

Only 11% of 1,200 people polled were not satisfied with Duterte.

In a Sunday editorial in the Manila Bulletin newspaper, Ramos listed priority focus areas that could have been “do-able” if Duterte had hit the ground running “instead of being stuck in endless controversies about extrajudicial killings of drug suspects and in his ability at using cuss words and insults instead of civilised language”.

The drugs crackdown, Duterte’s signature policy popular among Filipinos who elected him in May by a huge margin, has killed more than 3,600 people since June 30, with 1,377 shot by police in operations.

Ramos said the government’s mixed statements on Philippine-US relations were “discombobulating”, including Duterte’s verbal attack on US President Barack Obama last month.

“So what gives? Are we throwing away decades of military partnership, tactical proficiency, compatible weaponry, predictable logistics and soldier-to-soldier camaraderie, just like that? On DU30’s say-so?” Ramos asked in the editorial, referring to a popular acronym for Duterte. — Reuters