http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/boycott-chinese-products-social-media-silent-campaign/1/780009.html
138
13
Highlights 1 Fake letter signed by PM Modi, asking people to boycott Chinese good, goes viral.

2 BJP politicians call for a boycott of Chinese products.

3 Assam minister Himanta Sarma follows suit.

While the entire country is busy bashing Pakistan after the Uri terror attack of September 18 and the subsequent provocations in response to India's surgical strike, there is another country that seems to be arousing rather strong sentiments.

You know who we are talking about - China.

Some people seem to be conducting a social media campaign to urge people to boycott Chinese products during the upcoming festive season.

It all began with a fake letter purportedly signed by none other than PM Modi that was being circulated on social media, and more on instant message applications like Whatsapp. The letter urged Indians to use Indian products during Diwali and shun Chinese goods. However, the official Twitter account of PM Modi tweeted to warn the public, saying the document is not authentic.

Few appeals with PM’s ‘signature’ are circulated on social media. Such documents are not authentic. pic.twitter.com/9AOcvHStFu — PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 31, 2016

Other than this fake letter, there have been memes and images doing the rounds on the internet spreading the same message.









Then came statements from some politicians asking people to boycott Chinese products. Kailash Vijayvargiya, National General Secretary of the BJP, called for a boycott of Chinese products yesterday to protest China role in giving Jaish-e-Mohammed chief Masood Azhar another six-month breather.

Vijayvargiya tweeted "Buying Chinese products is an indirect support to a terrorist country." However, he deleted the tweet later.

Today, one of the senior ministers in the Assam government, Himanta Biswa Sarma, urged people to shun Chinese products this Dusshera.

"This Durga Puja people should avoid buying products made in China. Instead they should buy lamps, decorative lights and household utensils made in India," he said. Sarma's call for boycott comes after China announced that it had blocked a tributary of the Brahmaputra to facilitate work on one of its "most expensive" hydropower projects in Tibet.