http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/U/US_HURRICANE_MATTHEW_US_THE_LATEST?SITE=AP&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT&CTIME=2016-10-11-09-42-29
193
19
RALEIGH, N.C. (AP) -- The Latest on the recovery from Hurricane Matthew (all times local):

6 p.m.

North Carolina officials say Hurricane Matthew has caused erosion at an inactive coal ash basin, and they're investigating whether any has been released.

The Department of Environmental Quality issued a news release saying that Duke Energy notified it Friday of the erosion and a "possible coal ash release" at the plant near Goldsboro in Wayne County. The H.F. Lee plant is near the Neuse River, one of the rivers overflowing from torrential rains during Matthew.

State investigators are going to the site Saturday to determine if any coal ash spilled. Department spokesman Mike Rusher said he would not speculate as to whether coal ash was discharged until a team can investigate.

Rusher said the basin isn't in use and has been covered by soil and trees.

A Duke Energy spokeswoman said the company was preparing a statement.

---

4:20 p.m.

A man found drowned in his flooded home in hard-hit Nichols, South Carolina, is the fifth fatality from Hurricane Matthew in the state.

Marion County Coroner Jerry Richardson told The Associated Press that 40-year-old James Tyler refused to leave his home when rescuers warned him two rivers near the town were rising fast last weekend.

Richardson says searchers found Tyler's body in his waterlogged living room Thursday.

Flooding triggered by the hurricane has killed at least 41 people in the U.S. and more than 500 people in Haiti.

---

2:15 p.m.

North Carolina Gov. Pat McCrory says the death toll from Hurricane Matthew and its aftermath has risen by two people, bringing the total number of deaths in the state to 24.

He told reporters on Friday that the latest storm-related deaths were in Cumberland County and Lenoir County but offered few other details.

Flooding triggered by Matthew has left at least 40 dead in the U.S. The hurricane killed more than 500 people in Haiti.

McCrory spoke after touring Edgecombe County, about 60 miles east of Raleigh, where the town of Princeville flooded.

He said as many as nine out of 10 houses in the town of about 2,000 residents have taken on water. He said in some places the water is as deep as 10 feet.

Aerial news footage from midday showed the water had nearly reached the roofline of the town hall about one story off the ground.

---

9:30 a.m.

North Carolina Gov. Pat McCrory plans to tour Hurricane Matthew flood damage in Tarboro, about 60 east of Raleigh.

The governor's stop in Edgecombe County early Friday afternoon is his latest stop as he tours areas hard hit by flooding resulting from the storm.

McCrory says 22 people have died because of Hurricane Matthew, almost all of them have been vehicle-related deaths.

The governor's office said he would tour Edgecombe County and the surrounding area damaged by the storm.

---

8:15 a.m.

Officials in Pender County northwest of Wilmington, North Carolina, say the flooding after Hurricane Matthew is among the worst the county has had in many years.

Pender County Manager Randall Woodruff flew over the area Thursday and could see some homes where only rooftops were visible from the waterline.

More than 200 homes have been affected by the flooding from the Black River and Northeast Cape Fear River.

Officials say some people refused to evacuate Thursday even though the area has been without electricity.

The flooding could affect downtown Wilmington and riverside roads in New Hanover County this weekend.

A swift water rapids team from Charlotte and teams from Greensboro and Brunswick County were helping agencies on the ground Thursday in Pender County. A state team was working to rescue stranded animals.

---

7:30 a.m.

Officials in Lumberton in southeastern North Carolina say some people could be without water for two weeks as employees work to recover from Hurricane Matthew.

A water treatment plan had massive flooding and the water has to be removed before officials can assess the damage and make repairs.

City manager Wayne Horne said Thursday there's no timetable for the restoration of service because of the high water levels from the Lumber River.

Horne says power has been restored in most of the city. One section of the town still has flooded roads that have delayed restoration of service.

Robeson County still had more than 20,000 people without electricity. A county spokeswoman said a substation and a number of power lines were under water.

More than 1,300 people were still in shelters.

---

7 a.m.

Three kennels in the Charlotte area need help handling 72 dogs moved to North Carolina from the Charleston, South Carolina, area as Hurricane Matthew approached.

The Charlotte Observer reported (http://bit.ly/2e5qexa) that the dogs were moved from an animal rescue shelter in Ladson, South Carolina, Oct. 7 to shelters in Mooresville and Indian Trail.

Matthew damaged the South Carolina shelter's fences, kennels and dog runs, and repairs could take several weeks.

The kennel Dog Day Out Grooming and Pet Resort in Indian Trail has 44 dogs. The others are at another location in Indian Trail or one in Mooresville.

Some shelters are seeking volunteers to help with feeding, exercise and cleaning.

Supplies are also needed, including towels, blankets, detergent, metal dog bowls and treats.

Donations are also welcome.

---

3 a.m.

North Carolina Gov. Pat McCrory says the state will rebuild and take steps to protect one of the country's oldest towns chartered by African-Americans after it was inundated by floodwaters for the second time in less than 20 years.

After a Thursday flyover, McCrory says the town of Princeville is under water from flooding caused by Hurricane Matthew. It's the same town that was flooded up to rooftops because of Hurricane Floyd in 1999.

The governor pledged to help the town rebuild as well as take steps to make sure the town isn't overrun by floodwaters again.

Also, McCrory said the death toll in North Carolina associated with Hurricane Matthew has risen to 22 after two more deaths were reported Thursday.