http://dfw.cbslocal.com/2016/10/11/hearing-today-for-woman-accused-in-dentist-murder-for-hire-plot/
190
19
Follow CBSDFW.COM: Facebook | Twitter

DALLAS (CBSDFW.COM) – It was a murder for hire plot that investigators say led to the death of a popular Uptown Dallas dentist. Now court proceedings have begun for the accused mastermind who recently returned to North Texas from Mexico.

Attorneys for Brenda Delgado went before a judge this morning. It was the first hearing for Delgado since she was returned to the United States and charged with Capital Murder for allegedly killing 35-year-old Kendra Hatcher.

After the hearing Delgado’s attorney, George R. Milner, insisted his client is innocent and said he’s looking forward to setting the record straight at trial… but it will take a while. Delgado won’t have an appearance before a judge again until sometime next year.

“She’s absolutely not guilty! Yeah, it’ll be a not guilty plea and there will a trial,” Milner said.

Milner briefly appeared on behalf of Delgado today for an initial appearance, the 33-year-old did not appear in court in person. Delgado was arraigned last week and though she didn’t officially enter a ‘not guilty’ plea, Milner said that’s what the record shows and she plans to proceed that way.

Delgado was living in North Texas at the time of the murder but is a Mexican citizen who was born Brenda Berenice Delgado Reynaga. She fled to her native country shortly after Hatcher was found dead in an Uptown parking garage on September 2, 2015.

Delgado was placed on the FBI’s Ten Most Wanted Fugitives List in April of this year. Less than 72 hours later she was found in northern Mexico and after prosecutors agreed not to seek the death penalty against her she was extradited back to Dallas County. Mexico does not practice capital punishment.

Prosecutors say Hatcher was gunned down because of jealousy. Hatcher, a pediatric dentist, had been dating Delgado’s ex-boyfriend.

FBI officials say it was Dallas Police Department investigators who first suspected Delgado of hiring two co-conspirators to carry out her plan to kill Hatcher. The man accused of actually gunning down the dentist, Kristopher Love, is in custody faces federal charges. The woman accused of driving Love to the parking garage to murder Hatcher, Crystal Cortes, is also in custody.

Milner said his client has a very good case, especially since she spoke to Dallas police extensively. “She sat there with them for hours. They asked her all the questions they wanted,” he said. “They already had Crystal Cortez in custody. They already had Kristopher Love in custody. So, it’s not like these are rookie cops. These are highly-experienced homicide detectives who interviewed her for a long time and then let her walk out the front door.”

Milner also said Delgado fled to Mexico because she didn’t have the money to get a proper lawyer. When he was hired he said he arranged a deal for her to turn herself in, but Mexican authorities grabbed her two hours later.

Delgado is being held in the Dallas County Jail on $1,000,000 bond.

(©2016 CBS Local Media, a division of CBS Radio Inc. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.)