https://in.news.yahoo.com/india-warns-pak-says-respond-act-adversary-135955352.html
190
19
New Delhi, [India], Sept 19 (ANI): In a stern warning to Pakistan in the wake of the Uri terror attack, Director General of Military Operations (DGMO) Lieutenant General Ranbir Singh on Monday affirmed that a total of 17 infiltration bids have been successfully dealt with this year, adding India reserves the right to respond to any act of the adversary.

Addressing the media here, Lieutenant General Singh said the infiltration bids have increased this year in comparison to the last three to four years.

"Total recoveries during the Uri operation include four AK rifles, four grenade launchers, four under barrel grenade launchers. Recoveries also include 39 under barrel grenade launcher grenades, five hand grenades, two radio sets, two global positioning systems, two map sheets, two metric sheets which they use when they move from one place to another as guidance points were also recovered," Lieutenant General Singh said.

"Meanwhile, a large quantity of food and medicine packets, having markings of Pakistan," he added.

The DGMO said the Uri attack indicates a desperate attempt from across the border to push infiltrators into India with a view to create disturbances.

"Both Poonch and Uri attacks led to neutralisation and killing of four terrorists each by Indian Army. Of a total of 110 terrorists killed during various operations this year, 31 were killed while they were attempting to cross the LoC," Lieutenant General Singh said.

"We have the desired capability to reply to such blatant act of violence in a manner as deemed appropriate by us. We reserve the right to respond to any act of the adversary at the time and place of our own choosing," he added.

Lieutenant General Singh yesterday said that the four terrorists, who attacked the military base in Jammu and Kashmir's Uri, belonged to Pakistan's banned terror outfit Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM).

India is to present all actionable evidence against Pakistan if required at international bodies.

The Indian Permanent Mission is to issue a statement taking on Islamabad soon after Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif will make his speech at the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA).

Evidence of Pakistan's hand in Uri attack i.e. GPS tracker movements that go back to starting point in Pakistan, Pashto literature, Pakistan Army marked arms will be given to Islamabad at the DGMO level, sources add.

India is set to raise Uri attack at the 71st UNGA and highlight Pakistan's involvement into the deadly terror strike.

Sources state that External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj will strongly emphasize on Pakistan's involvement in the attack in her UNGA speech on September 26.

This development comes after the Prime Minister chaired a high-level meeting at his official 7, Race Course Road residence in the national capital.

At least 18 soldiers lost their lives and over 20 others injured during the terror strike on an army camp close to the headquarters of the 12th Brigade at Uri in Baramulla district. (ANI)