http://en.farsnews.com/newstext.aspx?nn=13950605000664
193
19
World

Israel Detains 12 Palestinians in West Bank

TEHRAN (FNA)- Israeli forces on Thursday detained four Palestinians from the West Bank districts of Bethlehem, Jenin, and Hebron, according to local and security sources.

In Ramallah area, Israeli troops stormed the village of Silwad, East of the city, and detained six Palestinians, identified as Handala Hammad, Ibrahim Hammad, Abdul-Aziz Hammad, Saif Salim, Labib Natour, and Mohammad Khaled Hammad, WAFA reported.

Army also broke into Al-Amaari refugee camp in Ramallah, where they detained at least one Palestinian. He was identified as Mohammad Ameen Abu Radaha.

Meanwhile in Jerusalem, Israeli undercover forces abducted a Palestinian youth while he was present in al-Aqsa Mosque compound in the city. The youth, Ahmad Sharabati, was taken to a nearby police station.

In Bethlehem, South of the West Bank, Israeli forces stormed the city at midnight and detained two locals, after raiding and searching their homes. The two were identified as Alaa Shalash, 31, and Mahmoud Jaber, 24.

During the Israeli offensive in Bethlehem, Israeli soldiers raided a blacksmith in the city and seized its content, according to security sources.

Meanwhile in Jenin district, Israeli troops broke into the town of Qabatiya and raided the family house of Sari Abu Gherab, a Palestinian who was shot dead by the Israeli army near Nablus yesterday.

Abu Gherab’s father told WAFA that dozens of Israeli soldiers accompanied by an intelligence officer savagely raided his house at midnight and interrogated him. He said he confirmed to the Israeli intelligence officer that his son was killed in cold blood.

The Israeli offensive in Qabatiya provoked clashes between the Israeli army and local youths, during which at least one Palestinian was reportedly injured.

The Israeli military detained one Palestinian in Qabatiya. He was identified as Qusai Hanaysheh.

In the meantime, Israeli police detained a Palestinian youth from Yatta, near Hebron, while he was in Israel to seek work. He was identified as Hamza Smerat.