http://www.philstar.com/metro/2016/08/27/1617730/drug-suspect-shot-dead-cop-hurt-quezon-city-sting
190
19
MANILA, Philippines - A drug suspect was killed and a policeman was wounded in a gunfight following a sting in Quezon City before dawn yesterday.

Garry Estropia, 35, was shot dead by police officers after a drug bust along NIA Road in Barangay Pinyahan at around 1:30 a.m.

Police Officer 2 Andrew Bautista, of the Kamuning police station’s anti-drug unit, was reportedly transacting with Estropia when the suspect suddenly pulled out a handgun.

Bautista was shot in the foot when he engaged Estropia in a gun scuffle. Estropia was shot by Bautista’s colleagues.

Bautista was released after treatment, said station commander Superintendent Pedro Sanchez.

Police officers recovered a .45 caliber pistol, a magazine with four bullets, a slug, four bullet shells, seven sachets of shabu, drug paraphernalia and P1,000 in cash at the crime scene.

Nation ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1

Shabu seized from NBP

At the New Bilibid Prison’s medium security compound, a sachet of shabu was seized from each of five inmates following a test buy conducted by police officers from the Southern Police District (SPD) and the National Capital Region Police Office.

The SPD identified the inmates reportedly caught with shabu as Walter Baccay, Valeriano Amestus, Raymond Bongabing, Marlon Abata and Ramon Mutuc Jr.

Also seized during Oplan Galugad, the surprise inspection and search that followed the test buy, were assorted bladed weapons, television sets, cash in various denominations, electric fans, rice cookers and a videoke machine.

Additional charges of drug possession will be filed against the inmates.

Death squad in Caloocan?

Three alleged pushers and users were shot dead in Caloocan on Thursday, reinforcing stories that a group of vigilantes is roaming the city and executing drug suspects.

Mayor Oscar Malapitan said he will order the police to investigate the reports. He said he has heard the stories but no formal reports have been presented and no one has come forward to corroborate the claim.

Several witnesses have reported seeing a group of motorcycle-riding men wearing bonnets in Caloocan.

Adrian Perigrino, 32, and Vivian Ramos were sleeping in their house in Barangay 178, Camarin, Caloocan when two men barged inside and shot them at around 3 a.m.

Police said the victims were on the city’s drug watchlist and surrendered at the police community precinct on July 21.

In Barangay 177 in Camarin, Ruel Ruiz, 40, was in his house when gunshots were heard. His body was found on the floor with gunshots to the head. Two sachets of shabu were found in his pants pocket.

In Pasig, suspected pusher Billy Ching, 44, was shot dead by three men who barged into his house before dawn yesterday. – Romina Cabrera, Mike Frialde, Rey Galupo, Non Alquitran