http://usa.onlinenigeria.com/latest-additions/152643-hundreds-of-police-pay-final-respects-to-missouri-officer-killed-in-early-morning-shootout.html
190
19
Hundreds of police pay final respects to Missouri officer killed in early morning shootout

Suspect connected to felony narcotics case that Snyder was involved with

Snyder was fatally shot while on duty on October 6

Hundreds of police officers saluted the coffin of officer Blake Snyder

Hundreds of police officers saluted the flag-draped coffin of a Missouri police officer who was shot and killed by an 18-year-old suspect during an early morning shootout last week.

The law enforcement community paid their respects at the funeral of St. Louis County police officer Blake Snyder in Chesterfield yesterday.

Officers from around the country turned out to commemorate Snyder, who was fatally shot while on duty on October 6 after encountering a man accused of causing a disturbance in a normally quiet, suburban St. Louis neighborhood.

Hundreds of police officers saluted the coffin of a Missouri police officer who was shot and killed by an 18-year-old suspect last week

The law enforcement community paid their respects at the funeral of St. Louis County police officer Blake Snyder in Chesterfield yesterday

Officers from around the country turned out to commemorate Snyder, who was fatally shot while on duty on October 6

St. Louis police officer Blake Snyder pictured above before he was killed last week

Snyder was struck point-blank died instantly, Chief Jon Belmar told KSDK at the time.

The second officer returned fire and injured the teen, who was in critical condition.

His name has not yet been released.

Authorities said Snyder and the second officer were responding to a disturbance call in Green Park when he was shot.

Snyder had encountered a man accused of causing a disturbance in a normally quiet, suburban St. Louis neighborhood

Snyder was struck point-blank died instantly, Police Chief Jon Belmar has reported

The second officer returned fire and injured the teen, who was in critical condition

Authorities said Snyder and the second officer were responding to a disturbance call in Green Park when he was shot

The suspect is connected to a felony narcotics case that Snyder was involved with, Belmar told CBS St Louis.

Snyder, who Belmar said was a 'great guy' and a dedicated cop, had worked at the St Louis County Police Department for four years.

He is the first officer at the department to be killed in the line of duty in 16 years.

Belmar said there were no dash cams or body cameras in use at the time of the shooting.

The suspect is connected to a felony narcotics case that Snyder was involved with

Snyder, who Belmar said was a 'great guy' and a dedicated cop, had worked at the St Louis County Police Department for four years

He is the first officer at the department to be killed in the line of duty in 16 years