http://nation.com.pk/lahore/26-Aug-2016/man-confesses-he-threw-5-year-old-son-into-canal
190
19
LAHORE - A man has confessed to the police investigators that he threw his five-year-old son into the BRB canal a week ago.



Earlier, the killer tried to mislead the police investigators by staging child abduction drama stating that his son was abducted by unknown men.



Thirty-year-old Ahmad Asad Ullah was arrested by police after cops discovered the body of the child from BRB canal near Mustafabad in Kasur district.

According to investigators, the killer planned the murder of his son, Muhammad Ahmad, after his second wife delivered a baby boy last month.



SP Civil Lines Ali Raza yesterday told reporters in Lahore that the Shalimar police had registered a kidnapping case of Ahmed on the complaint of his father.



After throwing his son into the canal, Asad reached the Shalimar police station on August 17 and filed an application with the police about the child abduction.



The father told the police that he was busy in shopping in the Baghbanpura bazaar when unidentified men took away his son who was sitting on the fuel-tank of his motorcycle.



The police registered the case and launched the probe.



On August 22, the district Kasur police recovered the body of a boy from the BRB canal.

Later, the child was identified as Muhammad Ahmed by his grandfather.

The police arrested the father of the boy and interrogated him in connection with the abduction drama.



During investigation, Asad confessed to the investigators that he took his son to the canal for picnic but threw the child into the canal.



According to initial investigations, the alleged killer had contracted second marriage with Umza Parveen almost one year ago.

Last month, his second wife delivered a baby boy.

The police investigators say they believe the man planned the killing of his son with the abetment of his second wife.



The police yesterday also included the names of Parveen and her father Chand Khan in the murder case and were conducting raids to arrest them.

Further investigations were underway.

