http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/xi-jinping-china-masood-azhar-unsc/1/786839.html
190
19
Highlights 1 China said UNSC was still divided on Masood Azhar.

2 This comes ahead of Xi Jinping's arrival in Goa for BRICS summit.

3 China said it was open to discuss India's NSG bid during summit.

China today said the UN Security Council's sanctions committee was still divided on the issue of sanctioning Jaish-e-Mohammed chief Masood Azhar, which is why it extended a technical hold.

A day before President Xi Jinping's arrival in Goa for the BRICS Summit, during which he will also hold talks with Prime Minister Modi, the Foreign Ministry of China defended its decision to extend the hold on September 30 by three months.

Beijing will have to decide by the end of the year to either approve or veto the application to list Azhar.

Also Read: PM Modi to meet Xi Jinping, NSG bid and ban on Masood Azhar on top agenda



UN COMMITTEE WILL DECIDE ON FACTS

"I would like to reiterate that the UN committee dealing with the listing does so according to provisions of the UN charter," Foreign Ministry spokesperson Geng Shuang said.

"We maintain that this committee should work on true facts and make a decision according to consensus of its members. All parties are divided in listing of the relevant people. This is why China has put on hold (the banning of Azhar)."

The decision, Geng said, "will give enough time to make the listing decision and also shows the responsible and professional attitude of the Chinese side."

He also said China's position on India's bid to join the Nuclear Suppliers Group had not changed. Chinese officials said this week they were open to explore possibilities on India's bid, although Beijing first wants the group to agree criteria for all non-NPT countries.

Also Read:

China shields Masood Azhar at UN second time; issue may dominate Modi-Jinping BRICS talks

Pakistan's Masood Azhar a terrorist: India to press upon China with evidence

BJP created Jaish-e-Mohammad by releasing Masood Azhar: Congress

After blocking India's move to ban Masood Azhar, China now wants action against global terrorists

