http://leadership.ng/news/551102/police-rescue-14-kidnapped-oil-workers-in-rivers
193
19
Fourteen Nestoil workers who were abducted about two weeks ago while on their way to Port Harcourt along the notorious Omoku axis of the East-West Road in Rivers State, have regained their freedom.

Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Nnamdi Omoni, made this known in a statement made available to newsmen in Port Harcourt, the state capital yesterday

According to the statement, the victims were rescued after a fierce gun battle between the kidnapers and men of the Tactical Unit of the Command, which made the hoodlums to abandon their victims and escape, yesterday.

The statement indicated that the rescued victims were currently receiving treatment in the hospital.

The statement reads, “The Commissioner for Police, Rivers State Police Command, CP Francis M. Odesanya, in keeping with his pledge to fight all manners of crime and criminality in the state, which pledge is already yielding fruitful result, has again smashed the gang of kidnappers responsible for the abduction of 14 oil workers on the 2nd day of September 2016.

“The oil workers were rescued unhurt due largely to the efforts of the Command’s Tactical Units, who, at the early hours of today 18/9/2016, engaged the hoodlums, in a fierce gun battle which lasted for one and half hours, leading to the rescue of the victims, the hoodlums took to flight abandoning their hostages. Efforts are on to arrest and bring them to justice.

“The last of the hostages, seven in number were rescued unhurt bringing the total number to 14. However, no ransom was paid. They have been debriefed and are receiving medical attention in the hospital. Investigation is on-going at the Command’s Anti-Kidnapping Unit.

“The names of the 14 hostages released are as follows: Uche Obuh ‘m’, Oliseh Onabrakpeya ‘m’, Bisong Jacob ‘m’, John Ambrose ‘m’, Elijah Walter ‘m’, Onah Onyekachukwu ‘m’ and Okoro Emmanuel ‘m’.

Others are, Oliver Onah ‘m’, Collins Joseph ‘m’, Ndifreke Elkannah ‘m’, Raphael Odili ‘m’, Babatunde Joseph ‘m’, Unah Gregory ‘m’, and Double Chief ‘m’.”