http://www.business-standard.com/article/news-ani/uri-bravehearts-families-proud-of-valor-sacrifice-demand-action-against-pak-116091900578_1.html
190
19
Uri bravehearts' families proud of valor sacrifice, demand action against Pak

The sacrifices of true heroes, who shine like a star, are definitely cherished till the end of days. One can never forget the valor of the Uri bravehearts.

Sunday's fresh terror attack is a huge setback for the families of these Uri bravehearts, but their spirit has not been deterred by such acts of cowardice.

One such example is slain Naik Vidharthi's daughter, Aarti Kumari, who despite having lost her father at this young age feels proud of his sacrifice for the nation.

Vidarthi was a resident of Boknari village in Bihar's Gaya district.

"I am proud of my father because he did not die but instead he sacrificed his life for the nation," Aarti told ANI.

"The way the Pakistani militants are attacking the nation, we should also attack them in the same way. A befitting reply must be given to those who attack our security forces only then Pakistan will be able to understand our pain and suffering," she added.

Vidharthi's father Mathura Prasad Yadav appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to give a befitting reply to those attacking the security forces.

"We are sad that we have lost our son. But we want to ask the government for how long this will continue? How many soldiers will lose their lives?" he asked.

Vidharthi, who joined the army in 1999, has left behind his wife and four children namely Aarti, Anshu, Anshika and Aryan.

Meanwhile, has announced an ex-gratia of Rs. five lakh to Vidharthi's family.

Another Sepoy Javra Munda, a resident of Meral village in Jharkhand's Khunti district, was also one of the bravehearts who sacrificed his life.

One of Javra's friends said that the Sepoy's only ambition was to serve the nation.

"He was very hard working. He used to mingle with everyone and that too very easily. His only ambition was to serve the nation," he said.

The family members of another Uri martyr Sepoy G. Dalai, who was a resident of Jamuna Balia village in West Bengal's Howrah district, also mourned the death of the brave soldier.

"Why did they do so? God will teach them a lesson," said the sister-in law of Sepoy G. Dalai with tears in her eyes.

"He called me on Thursday and said I will go from here.bombs are being thrown.they will kill us. Strictest of punishment should be given to those who have killed my son," said his mother.

"He was only 22 years old. He was a junior officer, normally seniors are sent there. Why was my son sent there? The government should condemn this and ensure that strict punishment is given to those who killed my son," said his father.

West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee saluted the sacrifice of the Uri bravehearts.

"No words can take away the pain of the 17 families who lost their loved ones in #Uri. India's brave soldiers, salutes. Mortal remains of one brave jawan is being brought to Howrah," tweeted Banerjee.

In one of the worst attacks in recent times, at least 17 soldiers lost their lives and 30 others got injured post the terror strike on an army camp close to the headquarters of the 12th Brigade at Uri in Jammu and Kashmir's yesterday.

Subedar Karnail Singh, Havildar Ravi Paul, Sepoy Rakesh Singh, Sepoy Javra Munda, Sepoy Naiman Kujur, Sepoy Uike Janrao, Havildar NS Rawat, Sepoy Ganesh Shankar, Naik SK Vidarthi, Sepoy Biswajit Ghorai, Lance Naik G Shankar, Sepoy G Dalai, Lance Naik RK Yadav, Harinder Yadav, Sepoy TS Somnath, Havildar Ashok Kumar Singh and Sepoy Singh are the 17 soldiers, who sacrificed their lives for the nation.

The army yesterday announced that the initial reports indicated that the four terrorists killed in the attack belong to Jaish-e-Mohammad Tanzeem.

(This story has not been edited by Business Standard staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)

ANI