http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/JK-finds-no-mention-in-Ban-Ki-moons-UNGA-speech-despite-Pakistans-efforts/articleshow/54435000.cms
190
19
terror attack in Uri +

Pakistan's repeated requests to intervene in Jammu & Kashmir +

Nawaz Sharif +

NEW DELHI: External affairs minister Sushma Swaraj will lead India's diplomatic offensive against Pakistan at the UN General Assembly next week in the wake of the, blamed on terrorists from across the border.In a development that gave India satisfaction, UN secretary-general Ban Ki-moon refrained from taking up. In his opening statement, he dwelt on areas of concern in the world like Syria and West Asia. But there was no mention of India-Pakistan or J&K. This made's opening gambit in the UNGA bite the dust early, but the Pakistani PM is expected to make an impassioned speech against India at the gathering.Another early diplomatic success by India at the UN was the acceptance of the India-sponsored Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism (CCIT) by the BRICS group in the UN. This is the first time a powerful grouping called for its early acceptance by the global community. The UN face-off will kick off with Sharif 's speech at the UNGA on Wednesday.On Monday, minister of state for external affairs M J Akbar touched upon terrorism in his speech on migrants and refugees. "It is important to stress that today the geo-politics of the crisis points and proves that terrorism is the principle cause of refugee movements. Can we ignore this fact? We cannot. We do so at our peril," he said. "There is no good terrorism or bad terrorism and if you do not know the answer to this question, all you have to do is ask the refugee if he considers any terrorism to be good or bad."Afghan envoy to India Shaida Abdali told NDTV on Tuesday that the time had come to send a decisive message to Pakistan on terror, which could include a mass boycott of the November Saarc summit. "We have to make sure we bring on board the maximum number of countries and I am sure most South Asian countries are in line with what we think. Therefore, the effort should be comprehensive and we should single out a country that spoils our unity, that spoils regional peace," he said.In a strong statement against Pakistan, Abdali said, "This is an issue of state-sponsored terrorism. It is no more an issue of non-state actors that we have been hearing about. Now we have ample proof of state sponsored terror."In Geneva, India lashed out at Pakistan's use of terror. "The human rights violations in Pakistan cry for the world's attention. The people of Balochistan, amongst other provinces, have been waging for decades a bitter and brave struggle against their daily abuse and torture," said the Indian statement delivered by Alok Ranjan Jha from the Indian mission.