http://www.business-standard.com/article/news-ani/india-should-give-befitting-reply-to-pak-says-congress-on-uri-attack-116091900648_1.html
192
19
India should give befitting reply to Pak, says Congress on Uri attack

The Party on Monday asked Prime Minister Modi-led government to give a befitting reply to in the wake of the terror attack in Uri sector of Jammu and Kashmir's and said that it would send a strong message to Islamabad, which would ponder before continuing to bleed in the way it is doing.

spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi said this is the acid test for everyone, adding has the capacity to pass this test.

"I think there is not even a minority of one in who feels otherwise than that should give a befitting reply to Pakistan. The details of which are for the government to decide whether it is diplomatic coupled with military , coupled with economic, coupled with social international whether it is covert or overt, whether it is direct or indirect at a time manner and methodology of our choosing," Singhvi told ANI.

"But clearly must learn that it must pause to think not once, not twice, not five times but 10 times before it continues to bleed in the way it is doing," he added.

president Sonia Gandhi had earlier expressed shock and deep distress over the martyrdom of Indian soldiers in the dastardly terrorist attack in Uri.

Describing the "cowardly" attack as a "deplorable affront on our conscience", Sonia expressed hope that the perpetrators of this dastardly attack as also the forces behind them will be severely dealt with and brought to book.

Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Modi chaired a crucial security meeting at his official 7, Race Course Road (RCR) residence over the deadly terror attack in Uri.

Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh, Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar, Finance Minister Arun Jaitley, Security Advisor Ajit Doval, Army Chief General Dalbir Singh besides other senior officials attended the meeting.

The top security brass briefed the Prime Minister on the prevailing ground situation in Kashmir Valley in the wake of the attack.

Earlier today, Rajnath, Parrikar and the top security brass met to take stock of the security situation.

Meanwhile, a team of the Investigation Agency (NIA) is to visit Uri to gather leads and other evidence from the terror attack site.

The Home Minister, who cancelled his visits to Russia and the United States post the attack, yesterday said is a 'terrorist state' and should be isolated.

DGMO Lt. Gen. Ranbir Singh yesterday announced the initial reports indicate that the four terrorists killed in the attack belong to Jaish-e-Mohammad Tanzeem.

17 soldiers lost their lives and 30 others were injured post the terror strike on an army camp close to the headquarters of the 12th Brigade at Uri.

(This story has not been edited by Business Standard staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)

ANI