http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3774028/Thousands-evacuated-Spanish-towns-packed-British-tourists-horrendous-wildfire-hits-Costa-Blanca.html
190
19
Are you caught up in the Costa Blanca fires? Send your pictures to anthony.joseph@mailonline.co.uk

Local sources say a group of 15-year-old youths have been arrested as emergency crews battle back flames

Mass evacuation underway after three fires broke out on Sunday amid fears they were started deliberately

Thousands of tourists have fled a Spanish wildfire with flames closing in on their holiday villas - amid claims the blaze was started by a group of teenagers.

Holidaymakers, many of them British, left their homes and hotels for shelter as the flames burned through the province of Alicante on Sunday night and into Monday morning.

Planes flew overhead dropping water as witnesses described the situation as like a 'warzone'.

One British woman has described how her family was evacuated in the middle of the night as a fierce wildfire raged near their villa.

And Spain wasn't the only country dealing with huge fires, as an infernos were pictured in the Massif des Calanques, near Marseille in France and Fonte Fria village in the Portuguese district of Leiria.

Rosie Brown, from Portsmouth, Hampshire, was staying in a holiday home near the coastal resort of Xabia on the Costa Blanca when the blaze spread to undergrowth surrounding their property.

Emergency services told the family of eight to evacuate the building at 1am this morning and they have since been asked to stay in a school gymnasium which is doubling up as a refuge centre.

Scroll down for video

Thousands of tourists have fled a Spanish wildfire with flames closing in on their holiday villas - amid claims the blaze was started by a group of teenagers

Up in flames: A wildfire burns near Benitachel village, eastern Spain. Firefighters are still working to bring under control a forest blaze near Valencia that forced a mass evacuation

Fonte Fria village is surrounded by fire after the residents receiving evacuation order by the authorities, in the district of Leiria, Portugal

Authorities said more than 200 firefighters with 65 vehicles were deployed to the wildfire some 220 miles southeast of Madrid

A seaplane drops water over a wildfire next to a residential area along the coastline near the Spanish resort of Javea, Valencia

A British woman has described how her family was evacuated in the middle of the night as a fierce wildfire raged just yards from their Spanish villa

Rosie Brown, from Portsmouth, Hampshire, was staying in a holiday home near the coastal resort of Xabia in the Costa Blanca when the blaze spread to undergrowth surrounding their property

Holidaymakers, many of them British, left their homes and hotels for shelter as the flames burned through the province of Alicante on Sunday night and into Monday morning

A photographer takes pictures of charred remains of a car in a residential area affected by forest fires along the coastline near the Spanish resort of Javea, Valencia

Rosie, 23, told MailOnline that rescuers have urged them not to go back to the villa, which cost family members £500 each for the stay.

She said: 'We are still here now as the fire has started up again on the other side of the mountain area and we have been told it is too unsafe to return.'

Thousands have been evacuated in Spanish towns packed with British tourists after the 'horrendous' wildfires hit the Costa Blanca.

Resident Jessica Accorsi said: 'Early hours of the morning many place were evacuated and sent to the Santa Maria Magdelena School right behind my apartment, where my children go to school.

'One family parked outside my bedroom window and, once I awoke at 5am and realised they bad been evacuated, I asked if they needed shelter or food.

'They told me everyone was being put up in the school gym. I then made some cupcakes, got together some biscuits and croissants and took them up to the people at the school and offered them round to those who weren't already sleeping.

'Most people seemed in good spirits despite what was happening . Once the sun rose the helicopters and aeroplanes came out and at one point I could count 8 in the sky at one time.'

Firefighters work to put out the fire in the district of Leiria, centre of Portugal, yesterday evening

Residents of Fonte Fria village watch the fire near their homes after receiving evacuation order by the authorities, in the district of Leiria, centre of Portugal. More than 200 firefighters are efforting to put out the flames

Dramatic images show forest fires raging close to Xabia, south of Valencia amid fears the blaze was started deliberately yesterday

Radio presenter Eric Taylor was golfing with his wife Angie, (pictured) and their friends when the fire broke out

Radio presenter Eric Taylor was golfing with friends when the fire broke out. He said: 'The fire started at approximately 3pm yesterday, near the view point on Cumbre del Sol, Benitachell.

'My wife, Angie, phoned the emergency number 112 at 3.53pm. We were teeing off on the 7th Tee at Javea Golf Club, with friends Adrian and Pam Baker, also members of Javea Golf Club. It seemed to be over about 5pm but started again later.

Dramatic images show forest fires raging close to Xabia, south of Valencia amid fears the blaze was started deliberately yesterday.

Holidaymakers and residents are being evacuated to schools and hostels in the area while some 20 homes are said to have been destroyed in the blaze.

According to local sources, a group of 15-year-old youths have been arrested over the fires.

Rosie, whose seven-months pregnant sister is among family members, said her family had only arrived yesterday ahead of a ten-day holiday when smoke started to appear from a hillside behind their villa.

'This is when the helicopters and planes arrived to do the water dumping - this appeared to get the blaze under control but two hours later a further fire started at about 6pm.

Smoke rising from a wildfire in the Massif des Calanques on the outskirts of the French southern city of Marseille

A woman looks at the smoke rising from a wildfire in the Massif des Calanques on the outskirts of the French southern city of Marseille

Rosie, whose seven-months pregnant sister is among family members, said her family had only arrived yesterday ahead of a ten-day holiday when smoke started to appear from a hillside behind their villa. This was the view from the property after night fell

Emergency services told the family of eight to evacuate the building at 1am this morning and they have since been asked to stay in a school gymnasium which is doubling up as a refuge centre

Rosie (second left) told MailOnline that rescuers have urged her and her family (also pictured) not to go back to the villa, which cost family members £500 each for the wee

Fire has ripped through buildings in Xabia while thousands have been evacuated from the area

Thousands have been evacuated in Spanish towns packed with British tourists after 'horrendous' wildfires hit the Costa Blanca. Residents took to Twitter to post pictures of the blaze

'The planes and helicopters had stopped at this stage as it had become dark and the fire spread rapidly due to the high winds.

'This continued until midnight when we went to bed. At around 1am the local police arrived at our villa and we were told we needed to leave immediately as the fire was 'really close' and we could smell the burning.

'It was a very frightening experience for everyone and we were directed to Benitatxell infant school being used as a refuge centre.

BRITISH PENSIONER, 93, 'SUFFERS PANIC ATTACK AND ASSAULTS HIS RESCUERS' A British pensioner assaulted police who were trying to evacuate him from his burning home after suffering a panic attack, it emerged today. The 93-year-old man lashed out at Civil Guard officers who went door-to-door in a life-saving operation after dividing up in two teams of 10 as wildfires descended on residential areas near the Costa Blanca resort of Javea. The officers cleared houses in the areas of Calistro and Pino Sol close to Benitachell overnight. A spokesman for the force said: 'The clearance started with acoustic and light warnings using vehicle loudspeakers but the seriousness of the fire forced officers to go door-to-door getting residents out of their homes. 'The atmosphere was unbearable. The heat of the flames and the smoke left officers having to wear masks and dehydration was another of their worries. A British pensioner assaulted police who were trying to evacuate him from his burning home after suffering a panic attack, it emerged today. Pictures show fire raging near a group of houses 'Moreover in many houses people had to be convinced of the danger they were in. Many could not believe what was happening and resisted leaving all their belongings behind. 'The Civil Guards went from house to house convincing them as if they were psychologists and trying to persuade them that it was best to lose belongings rather than their lives. 'Some of these conversations took place with the flames right behind them. 'So great was some peoples' desperation that one of them, a 93-year-old English man, went into shock. 'The anxiety the situation left him in made him become violent and he began to attack everyone around him. 'Officers, who understood perfectly the state of nervousness he was in, managed to calm him down, although only after receiving more blows, and finally managed to get him away from the house he was in and help him reach safety.'

'We were the first to arrive but through out the night lots more families arrived. The Red Cross and Cival Protection and local police were all here and have looked after us extremely well but we are still here and have been informed that our area is not safe to return to and we may be here another night.

'We can see that another fire have since broken out and more families are arriving at the school after being evacuated. We only have the clothes we stand in, it's extremely hot but we are managing to keep our spirits up and preparing for another night in the school hall.'

Meanwhile, BBC Radio 1 presenter Chris Stark was among those caught up in the drama, tweeting: 'This is crazy. I think my car and maybe my apartment is on fire.'

Dramatic images show forest fires raging close to Xabia, south of Valencia amid fears the blaze was started deliberately yesterday

Dramatic pictures taken overnight showed the extend of the blaze in the coastal community

A helicopter drops water over a wildfire as it burns near Benitachel village. Many people have been evacuated in the area

More than 1,000 homes were evacuated and many fires had been extinguished, but the 'dry ground' and hot temperatures have led to further blazes breaking out

He later confirmed to fans that he was 'safe' but described the inferno as 'scary'.

Spanish emergency crews are still working to bring the fire under control and authorities said more than 200 firefighters with 65 vehicles were deployed to the scene.

The temperature in the area was forecast to reach 36 degrees Celsius (96.8 Fahrenheit), but officials were hoping a stiff wind that has fanned the flames would drop.

Emergency services said they almost brought the blaze under control on Sunday, but when water-dumping aircraft stood down after sunset the fire surged again and compelled the evacuations.

One British tourist described the scenes as 'horrendous'.

She added: 'I've never seen anything like it. Really scary. Still got helicopters going over with water. Flames were from one mountain to another. There are hundreds of cars taking pictures.'

Another wrote on Twitter: 'Crazy to see the pictures from Xabia this morning. Praying for safety and swift eradication of the fires.'

According to local police, properties in nearby Benitatxell, Tossalet and Cansalades were also evacuated as the flames came closer.

Fire fighters have been battling through the night to extinguish the blaze on the Costa Blanca

A volunteer covers her mouth with a cloth as smoke rises up from the fierce blaze in Spain

About 20 homes have been destroyed by the fires, which broke out yesterday afternoon

According to local police, properties in nearby Benitatxell, Tossalet and Cansalades were also evacuated as the flames came closer

BBC Radio 1 personality Chris Stark was among those caught up in the drama, posting a video on Twitter and writing: 'This is crazy. I think my car and maybe my apartment is on fire.'

There had been hopes yesterday that the fire had been contained, but new outbreaks later took hold.

Aircraft have been used in a bid to contain the blaze overnight.

Police are investigating the fire and say the cause is 'suspicious'.

According to the Daily Express, three fires broke out yesterday - one at the Cumbres del Sol at 4.10pm, a second at 6.30pm in Granadella and a third at Playa del Arenal at 8.30pm.

Stephanie Cooper, 21, from Pinosol - around 25 miles from Benidorm, said the air was heavy with smoke and described hearing explosions.

She said many as 2,000 people had been evacuated, including scores of Britons from hotels in the area - and said new blazes started at nearby La Granadella and Cumbre del Sol on Monday morning.

Police told everyone to leave their homes at around 7pm on Sunday night, forcing people to sleep in cars and emergency shelters.

Ms Cooper said strong winds had blown the flames towards her house on Sunday evening.

Pictures show her neighbours' garden scorched black, though the house itself was not affected.

Claire Edwards, 39, a presenter on Overseas FM who lives in Javea, said: 'This morning it was like waking up in Vietnam with so many aircraft in the skies.'

She said more than 1,000 homes were evacuated and said many fires had been extinguished, but the 'dry ground' and 'stupidly hot temperatures' had led to further blazes breaking out.

Volunteer firefighter Leo Gomez, from Benissa, said a lot of people were made homeless.

A huge forest fire is raging across the hills surrounding resorts in the Costa Blanca

According to local police, properties in nearby Benitatxell, Tossalet and Cansalades were also evacuated as the flames came closer

He said: 'Luckily I do not have housing in the burned area. The experience was very sad to see how something so beautiful is destroyed before you without doing more.

'The feeling of being there was terror, helplessness, fear, a set of bad feelings by not being able to do more - images that will never be forgotten.'

Spanish authorities said more than 200 firefighters, with 65 vehicles, were sent to deal with the wildfire on Monday.

Local authority official Jose Maria Angel said the fire was likely an act of arson and that the hottest day of the year was chosen deliberately.

He added: 'Everything appears to indicate that the forest fire that has affected various residential areas around Alicante could have been intentional.'

Radio One presenter Chris Stark said he had just started a week long holiday with his family when the fires broke out.

'We were just on the beach all day – it was the first proper day of our holiday,' he told MailOnline.

'We saw this plane picking up water. He was doing shuttle runs, but this fire was so far in the distance. And it was like he did it every day.

'We went away and came back at about six, six thirty-ish. That was when we noticed ash falling from the sky. And the shuttle runs the plane was making were a lot quicker.'

Chris and his family were still unfazed, believing the fire was some distance away. But then the waiters in the restaurant began to crowd around the window, watching the mountains.

One of the party went outside to have a look.

'He came back almost a bit panicked,' the 29-year-old said. 'I thought he was exaggerating.

Holidaymakers and residents are being evacuated to schools and hostels in the area while some 20 homes are said to have been destroyed in the blaze

According to local police, properties in nearby Benitatxell, Tossalet and Cansalades were also evacuated as the flames came closer

Aircraft were being used in a desperate attempt to extinguish the blaze this morning

Fire have destroyed a number of houses after spreading towards villas near the coast

'But there was a huge orange glow just behind the apartment where we were staying. It just seemed to get very crazy very quickly.'

Chris and his family managed to grab their passports, and ran for the relative safety of the other side of the beach. They left behind everything else – including his car, which he believes was parked where the fires were burning.

But it soon became clear that was not safe either.

'It was moving very, very quickly. It just seemed to completely pass from one side of the mountain to the other in 15 minutes.'

At that point, it was decided to flee the area completely. Later, Chris counted nine separate fires burning across the mountains.

'There was no instruction on the beach [about what to do]. It was hard to get instructions on where to go. We were lucky we had cars with us.'

Exactly what damage has been done to the apartment and their belongings is unknown. The car, he believes, will most likely have been destroyed.