http://nation.com.pk/lahore/12-Mar-2016/child-shot-dead-in-groups-clash
193
19
LAHORE - A two and a half years old boy was shot dead during crossfire between two rival groups in Kot Lakhpat yesterday.

Investigators identified the victim as Saim Ali.

The child was playing in the street outside his house near Babar Chowk when two groups resorted to gunfire.

The boy sustained serious bullet wounds and expired on the spot.

The body was moved to the Jinnah Hospital’s morgue for an autopsy.

An Edhi ambulance shifted the body to the morgue.

Police were yet to identify all the gunmen from both the groups.

However, a police investigator claimed that four gunmen were taken into custody after the fatal shooting and they were being interrogated in connection with the killing.

He said that the police would file a murder case against the gunmen.

“A murder case will be lodged against the criminals once the victim family would submit an application to initiate legal action,” the officer said.

It was not clear yet how many people were involved in the gun battle, which triggered panic and terror in the low-income neighborhood.

However, a police officer said two groups opened fire on each other over old enmity as they came face to face near a crossing yesterday afternoon.

Police investigators and forensic experts were at the crime scene till filing of this report.

TWO INJURED: Two young men were wounded when the gun of a security guard went off accidentally outside a private school in Shadbagh.

The injured were shifted to a hospital where their condition was reported to be out of danger.

The guard, identified by police as Asad, was arrested soon after the incident.

Initial investigations revealed that Asad was on-duty outside a private school at Sher Shah Road when his gun went off.

The guard told the investigators that he was trying to clean his gun when it went off all of a sudden.

The school was immediately sealed by local authorities.

The police have registered a case and are investigating.

CRUSHED: A 16-year-old schoolboy was crushed to death by a rashly-driven car near FC college underpass in Ichhra.

Police yesterday identified the victim as Munir Ahmed.

The youth riding on a motorcycle was on his way home when a car smashed into this two-wheeler.

He died on the spot.

Police said the teen appeared in the examination of Matric at a local center and was going back home when the road mishap took place.

The police are investigating.

