http://www.tribune.net.ph/headlines/radio-reporter-shot-dead-in-zamboanga-del-sur
193
19
Gunmen have shot dead a local radio reporter in Mindanao, police and an industry watchdog yesterday said.

Elvis Ordaniza, 49, of dxWO radio station, became the first journalist killed this year in the country, according to the National Union of Journalists of the Philippines (NUJP).

He became the 31st journalist or media worker to have been killed in the Philippines, one of the most dangerous countries for media workers in the world, since President Aquino came to power in mid-2010, according to a union tally.

“He is a former communist guerrilla who surrendered and went to work in the media industry,” the union’s deputy secretary general Fred Villareal told Agence France Presse.

“It is unfortunately in such far-flung towns, where accountability exists the least and where disagreements can turn intensely personal, that journalists face the most risks,” the NUJP noted.

But it added whatever the reason behind Ordaniza’s murder, one thing remains constant: “Government’s continued failure to prevent such killings and solve past cases.”

Such failure “emboldens those who would silence critical media,” it stressed.

“It has not helped that our leaders have often helped feed the bloodlust through their apathy or, as President Aquino has so often displayed, open hostility toward media whose view about the government is markedly different from his,” it added.

Two unknown gunmen barged into Ordaniza’s home in Pitogo town in Zamboanga del Sur late Tuesday and shot him dead, regional police director Miguel Antonio said in a written report.

The island is a hotbed of Islamic militancy, which has claimed over 100,000 lives there since the 1970s.

Known for its outspoken press, the Philippines is among the world’s most dangerous places for reporters, where powerful figures reckon on being able to kill critics with impunity.

Just 10 suspects have been convicted of attacks on journalists across the country over the three decades since the country embraced democracy in 1986, during which time more than 170 media workers have been killed, Villareal said.

While many of the victims had angered powerful figures, police say some of the killings were motivated by quarrels over personal or business matters.

One of the world’s deadliest attacks against journalists took place in the Philippines in 2009, when 32 journalists were among 58 persons killed by a warlord clan intent on stopping a rival’s election challenge.

More than one hundred persons are on trial for the massacre.

