http://newsday.co.tt/news/0,225230.html
192
19
A d v e r t i s e m e n t

Banker has faith in ATMs

Saturday, March 12 2016

THE country’s automatic teller machines (ATM) system can withstand recent incidents of attacks by foreign thieves, assured Scotiabank (TT) head, Anya Schnoor, speaking to Newsday yesterday during a function at the Hyatt Regency, Port-of-Spain. Her reaction came after Newsday’s lead story on Thursday, “Scam School”, in which local ATM expert, Derek Carrington, said at a recent business forum that South Americans are in TT to train local criminals how to rip off ATM machines.

“Banks spend quite a bit of money on IT infrastructure, so what you’re seeing over the last few years is nothing new. This is something that banks all over the world face, and we are constantly looking at what we have to do to change to see that we keep up unfortunately with people who have tools to do things that are not particularly good,” said Schnoor.



“But we are confident in our ability. We do hundreds of millions of transactions on a daily basis, and very few of them are fraudulent.



Each bank has a 100 percent guarantee, and if indeed a transaction is fraudulent we stand behind it, and the customer is reimbursed.



So it’s a very safe technology, and people use it all over the world.” Newsday asked about the claim of a Latino gang in TT running a scam school. “I didn’t see that article, but as I said we’re an international bank in 55 counties around the world, and we’re very confident in our systems, and in our ability to counter any perceived threat to those systems.” Asked if the present law was stringent enough against ATM scammers, she said banks have long been advocating for tougher penalties.



“There’s definitely a need to modernise the legal framework to deal with these new types of fraud, theft, whatever they are. The laws in TT need to be upgraded and it’s something the Bankers Association has advocated for a number of years, so that people caught trying to defraud the banks or individuals can actually be prosecuted.” Asked about bills on Computer Misuse and Electronic Transactions, she said while such laws were passed some had not been fully promulgated, but just in sections.



“I would feel that there are other pieces that go along with the Electronic Transactions Act that need to be put into place. This is 2016, and a lot of these laws were put in place when ATMs and these types of fraud didn’t exist. We need to be constantly upgrading our legislation.” She urged the Police Force and Attorney General’s Office to constantly to keep abreast of these laws.







