http://indianexpress.com/article/india/india-news-india/vhp-bengal-protest-pakistani-actors-fawad-aamir-khan-dangal-ban-mns-3079545/
138
13
Fawad Khan plays a cameo and Aamir Khan-starrer Dangal. Fawad Khan plays a cameo and Aamir Khan-starrer Dangal.

The Viswa Hindu Parishad (VHP) and its youth wing, the Bajrang Dal, Wednesday said they would soon launch protetsts against two films — Ae Dil Hai Mushkil in which Pakistani actor Fawad Khan plays a cameo and Aamir Khan-starrer Dangal.

“We will use all forms of social media to kick up a protest storm against Ae Dil… because it stars a Pakistani actor. We will also launch protest against Aamir Khan’s Dangal because of his comments on intolerance. We have already had a word with members of Bajrang Dal and the plan of action is being readied,” Souresh Mukherjee, the media-in-charge of VHP in Bengal, told The Indian Express.

WATCH VIDEO: Find Out Why Karan Johar’s Ae Dil Hai Mushkil Is In Trouble

He, however, said it was yet to finalised whether there would be any protest in front of theatres too demanding ban on the two films. “We will be talking to RSS and BJP leaders here and decide whether there will be any protest outside cinema halls,” Mukherjee added.

State RSS and BJP leaders, meanwhile, said that they might lend support. “The VHP is a part of the Sangh ‘parivar’ so if they are protesting against something, which is anti-national and are asking for our support, we might lend it,” a senior RSS leader told The Indian Express.

BJP state president Dilip Ghosh too, echoed similar sentiments. “There has not been any dialogue with us and the VHP so far over this issue but as we have done in the past, we will speak up against anything anti-national. If the VHP is planning any such protest and we are convinced that the protest is for the country’s positive image. There is no reason why we will not support such protests,” he said.

Directed by Karan Johar, ‘Ae Dil Hai Mushkil’ is set to hit cinema halls on October 28. Fawad, who makes a special appearance in the film, had left for Pakistan last month soon after the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) issued a threat to Pakistani actors and artistes to leave India post the Uri attack.

Dangal is slated to release on December 23 this year.