http://article.wn.com/view/2016/03/18/Saudi_Arabia_launches_fresh_air_strikes_on_Yemen/
196
19
Here is a round-up of global news developments: Saudi fighter jets have led fresh air raids on Yemen . The latest air strikes hit different locations in the capital Sana'a and in the provinces of Hudaydah and Ma'rib . Warplanes also targeted

(Source: HRW - Human Rights Watch ) (Sanaa) - The United States, United Kingdom, France, and others should suspend all weapon sales to Saudi Arabia until it not only...

Saudi-led airstrikes hit weapons caches held by Iran-backed Shiite rebels, touching off massive explosions Monday in Yemen's capital that killed at least 19 people and...

(Source: HRW - Human Rights Watch ) We write to submit information we hope will be helpful to your review of the government of Saudi Arabia's compliance with the Convention...

Human Rights Watch submission to the Committee on the Rights of the Child regarding Saudi Arabia (HRW - Human Rights Watch)

Airstrikes by the Saudi-led coalition bombed a food factory in the Yemeni capital of Sanaa early on Tuesday, killing 14 civilians working on an overnight shift, according...

Hillary Clinton and the FBI: acrimony could leave US more divided than ever

If Clinton wins, more in GOP say no to 9 on Supreme Court

Related News

Aden hit by coalition airstrikes amid fierce street battles Share PhotoReddit✉ Yemeni men look through a hole in a building damaged by a recent Saudi-led airstrike which, hit a site that many believe was a large weapons cache in Yemen's capital, Sanaa, Saturday, April 25, 2015. With combatants fighting in neighborhoods and Saudi-led coalition warplanes pounding Iran-backed rebels from the sky, Yemen's war is wreaking a particularly... U~T San Diego





Analysis: Despite Saudi strikes, Yemen rebels remain dug in More than a month of relentless airstrikes by a coalition led by Saudi Arabia has inflicted painful damage on Shiite rebels in Yemen, but they show little sign of collapse. The rebels, known as the Houthis, continue to have a strong grip on the capital, Sanaa, and much of the north. They and their allies — powerful military units loyal to the former president, Ali Abdullah... Austin American Statesman





AP PHOTOS: Editor selections from the Middle East Share PhotoReddit✉ FILE - In this Monday, April 6, 2015 file photo, covered in prayer shawls, Israeli ultra-Orthodox Jewish men of the Cohanim Priestly caste participate in a blessing during the Jewish holiday of Passover, in front of the Western Wall, the holiest site where Jews can pray in Jerusalem's old city. The Cohanim, believed to be descendants of priests who served... U~T San Diego





Little outcry as hospitals bombed in Syria, Yemen The first missile slammed into the field hospital in the rebel-held Syrian town of Sarmeen, killing a physiotherapist inside. Five minutes later, the aircraft returned, firing another missile that hit nearby just as the first responders were arriving. A total of 13 were killed, and the hospital organizers blamed Russian warplanes. In Yemen, airstrikes by a Saudi-led coalition... Austin American Statesman



