http://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-3739540/Sylvia-Jeffreys-puts-fianc-Pete-Stefanovic-notice-cute-live-cross-Weekend-Today-presenter-warms-City2Surf.html
190
19
She usually spends her mornings behind the desk on the Today Show panel.

But Sylvia Jeffreys swapped the studio for Sydney city on Sunday as the 30-year-old ran in the annual City2Surf.

However, as the fun run ambassador warmed up for the race, she spotted her co-star, Natalia Cooper doing interviews nearby and popped over for a quick cross to fiancé Pete Stefanovic, who was co-hosting Weekend Today in the Channel Nine studios.

‘Can you have a bottle of wine ready for me when I get home please?’ she pleaded just before the segment ended.

Scroll down for video

'Have a bottle of wine ready for me': Sylvia Jeffreys chatted to Channel Nine reporter Natalia Cooper (left) ahead of taking on the City2Surf on Sunday, with a special request for her fiancé Pete Stefanovic (left) who was back in the Weekend Today studios

Proud as punch, Pete grinned as he watched his girl on the monitor talk about her preparation for the gruelling 14km run while suffering from a bad cold.

'I'm feeling better - I'm dosed up on Sudafed. Ready to go,' Sylvia quipped enthusiastically.

Pete, chimed in with some words of encouragement, telling his future wife: ‘Good luck, go get them!’

The TV personality is competing in the charity run with her brother Andrew Jeffreys and his wife Akina Ota, who she was pictured with at the event on social media.

'Go get them!' Pete chimed in with some words of encouragement for his future wife

'Cheering from the sidelines!' Natalia gave her colleague some encouragement of her own, posting a seflie of the pair smiling among a crowd of runners warming up

Besides personal satisfaction, they had some extra motivation to finish the race in good time - they needed to be back home by 10.45am to take over from babysitters looking after Andrew and Akina's two young children.

‘We're not in it to race to win but make sure we're home in time for the baby-sitters, that's a goal,’ Sylvia said after Pete asked how her brother was going.

The blonde beauty also explained the intricacies of the course, which runs from Hyde Park to Bondi Beach, and the importance of leaving something in the tank for the finish.

‘It's a challenge all the way to the end. The trick is conserving some energy for the downhill slide at the end where all the spectators are,’ she told Natalia with a giggle.

Family fun run: The TV personality was competing in the charity run with her brother Andrew (centre) and his wife Akina Ota (right)

‘You want to be looking full of big bouncy strides to the end running past them,’ she added.

Natalia gave her colleague some encouragement of her own, posting a seflie to Instagram of the pair smiling among a crowd of runners warming up.

'This absolute top chick @sylviajeffreys is about to run the #City2Surf. I'll be cheering her on from the sidelines! Work is my excuse,' Natalia captioned the photo.

Pete and Sylvia got engaged last month during a romantic holiday to Europe and moved into a new house together in Sydney’s eastern suburbs soon after returning.