http://www.khmertimeskh.com/news/29385/
192
19
Despite ceaseless efforts to stop a potential demonstration with barricades and blocked-off roads – which ended up only disrupting the commute of local residents – five opposition Cambodia National Rescue Party (CNRP) parliamentarians were able to deliver petitions to 15 embassies yesterday, seeking intervention in a political deadlock that has effectively neutered the opposition’s top two leaders.



The government, assuming the CNRP’s announcement on Sunday of a plan to submit the petitions meant they would do so with a large procession, set up road blocks on National Road 2, starting at the CNRP headquarters, and caused massive traffic jams throughout the morning yesterday.



But senior CNRP official Son Chhay, a chairman of the party and the organizer of the petition project, said the road blocks and deployment of a large amount of police officers surprised a number of the party’s members.



“There was no march, no pedestrians and no demonstration. The party did not plan to [deliver] the petitions via demonstration. We lawmakers planned to go by car with only about seven or eight people.



“I have no idea why the authorities seemed to be so nervous that they blocked the road like that, causing problems to drivers,” he said at a press conference yesterday.



He added that the overdone attempt to stop a protest that was never even planned showed the way in which the government takes any opportunity to repress rights and freedoms in Cambodia.



Phnom Penh Governor Pa Socheatvong could not be reached yesterday, but told local pro-government news outlet Fresh News yesterday that the roadblocks were to “maintain security and order.”



Even though no protest was held and the government roadblocks were the only reason for traffic jams yesterday morning, he said the traffic in Phnom Penh would be worse if they let the CNRP gather its supporters.



“Obviously the party was gathering a movement of activists from the provinces and in the city to create disorder. This is how they do politics, gathering people to affect social order.



“This is awful and we cannot accept it,” he said, despite no indication from the party or any of its activists that the opposition was trying to create a large demonstration.



The petitions delivered to the embassies contained an open letter from CNRP politicians aimed at Asean leaders and signatories of the Paris Peace Accords.

In the letter, they say the leaders of the ruling Cambodian People’s Party have “violated the will” of the Cambodian people and ignored the “fundamental principles enshrined” in the Paris Peace Accords.



The ruling party has done this, they wrote, through “the increasingly inhumane abuse of power and suppression of public and personal freedoms, land activists, human rights defenders and opposition leaders and members at all levels have been detained, arrested and sentenced through the manipulation of the judicial system.”



Mr. Chhay added that the CNRP was hoping some members of Asean would speak out on the political situation in Cambodia during the 28th Asean Summit in Laos this week and find “immediate” solutions to prevent the “return of policies and practices of the past.”



“We call on Asean leaders and leaders of signatories to the Paris Peace Accords to fulfill their responsibility by pushing Prime Minister Hun Sen to put an immediate end to his dictatorial behavior and grave violations of the PPA,” Mr. Chhay said.



During press conferences at its headquarters, CNRP members often evaluate the tension and political persecution of several members arising through threats of imprisonment and obstructing its leaders from participating in the voter registration process and next year’s commune election. These factors, they say, are pushing the electoral process in Cambodia far away from the principles of democracy.



However, ruling party officials have rejected the allegations, saying there was no political tension and persecution against the opposition, but that opposition officials have instead committed crimes.



CNRP president Sam Rainsy has been in self-imposed exile in France since November when a warrant for his arrest was issued while he was abroad over historic claims of defamation by then-Foreign Minister Hor Namhong.



In July, the Phnom Penh Municipal Court convicted Mr. Rainsy of defaming National Assembly President Heng Samrin and ordered him to pay more than $37,000 in compensation after he falsely claimed the government under Mr. Samrin had ordered the death of King Norodom Sihanouk.



Mr. Rainsy was also sued last month by Prime Minister Hun Sen over accusations the premier was involved in the murder of political analyst Kem Ley, who was killed in July.



Kem Sokha, the acting president of the party, remains ensconced at party headquarters after police tried to arrest him in May for not heeding a court summons related to a prostitution case widely deemed politically motivated.



Sok Eysan, the ruling party spokesman, disagreed with Mr. Chhay’s assertions and said neither Asean members nor Paris Peace Accord signatories had the right to interfere in Cambodian politics.



“Signatories of the PPA and members of Asean have no role in interfering in Cambodia’s internal issues, and the current internal issue is that opposition lawmakers broke the law and are trying to blame the ruling party,” he said. “I strongly believe the petitions are useless.”

Police caused massive traffic jams near the CNRP headquarters yesterday morning. Photo: /Chor Sokunthea