http://aninews.in/newsdetail-NEpPZWp1/Mjc1OTkwSk9lanU/baloch-republican-party-chief-says-people-leaving-balochistan-out-of-helplessness-seeks-india-039-s-help.html
190
19
Baloch Republican Party chief says people leaving Balochistan out of helplessness, seeks India's help Updated: Aug 14, 2016 09:01 IST

Geneva, Aug. 14 ( ANI ): Asking India to help them in the same way it did for the creation of Bangladesh,(BRP) founding chief Brahumdagh Bugti on Sunday asserted that if the international community could interfere in Libya and Syria, they could in Balochistan as well, where people were leaving their own nation out of helplessness.

Grandson of influential Baloch politician the late Akbar Khan Bugti, Brahamdagh told ANI : “They (Pakistan) call us terrorists. They say we are taking support from India. We are appealing to the international community to help us. They should come and see the situation and monitor everything. If you can interfere inand, why cannot in Balochistan? One cannot imagine all that happens in Pakistan, people are leaving their own nation out of helplessness.”

“Baloch are resisting because they are being targeted by the Pakistan army. Villages in Balochistan are being bombarded and villagers tortured. Pakistan calls us terrorists, who are getting support from India or the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO),” said Bugti.

“Operations (military) are being carried out for the last five to ten years and people are dying. Their aim is to bring Chinese company over there slowly-slowly so that they can work for deep wells. The (Baloch) people are protesting against it and they (Pakistan) want to evacuate people. They take actions wherever there are people,” he alleged.

Maintaining that for the last four-five years this is increasing and not decreasing, Bugti said, “The operation was started during the time of Musharaf and later the PPP (Pakistan Peoples Party) government came to power and it grew faster and now it is even getting faster. It is misinformation that committees are being formed. The situation is becoming tense with every passing year.”

“My grandfather had said it was a full plan — they (Pakistan) are seeking China’s help, because they have many technologies, which Pakistan does not have. The Pakistani media showcase some of their works, but this is happening on daily basis since 2010,” he added.

Stating that their organisation is so helpless that it cannot work openly, Bugti, “Many of our people are still missing. Some of our people go missing every year if they work openly. We are trying to report to the international organisations and NGOs. No media or NGO is allowed in. So, we are giving reports on daily basis.” ( ANI