http://gulfnews.com/news/mena/syria/syria-us-non-commital-on-safe-zone-for-syria-says-turkey-1.1892164
190
19
Istanbul: World powers have not ruled out Turkey’s idea for a “safe zone” in Syria but they have not shown a clear will to implement the plan either, the spokesman for Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan said on Tuesday.

Ebrahim Kalin also told broadcaster NTV that Erdogan was pushing for an initial 48-hour ceasefire in the northern Syrian city of Aleppo with the plan to extend that through the Muslim Eid Al Adha holiday, due to start around September 11.

Erdogan had said on Monday that he repeated Turkey’s proposal at a meeting of G20 leaders for a “safe zone” from fighting in Syria to help curb the flow of migrants.

Kalin said Turkey insisted that all elements of the Kurdish YPG militia, which Turkey says is linked to the outlawed PKK organisation, be cleared from Syria’s Manbij, adding that Turkey was still experiencing problems with the US over its support for the YPG.

Turkey, a major sponsor of the insurgency against President Bashar Al Assad, has long argued for the establishment of a “safe zone” in Syria where there would be no fighting, saying this would help stem migrant flows from the country.

A Turkey-backed Syrian rebel commander said on Tuesday that the rebels would like to see a safe zone set up in areas of the border they are capturing from Daesh, but this would need an agreement between the United States, Turkey and Russia.

Ahmad Osman of the Sultan Murad insurgent group also said that the Turkey-backed rebels would soon be forced to confront Kurdish militias because they had not withdrawn from the area as demanded by the United States and Turkey.

The Turkish military launched an incursion into northern Syria last month with the stated aims of clearing Daesh from its last foothold at the border and preventing expansion by the Kurdish militia seen as a threat by Ankara.

Meanwhile, UN investigators on Tuesday urged all sides in Syria’s war to breathe new life into a faltering ceasefire, even as Washington and Moscow failed to agree on a deal to stem the violence.

The UN Commission of Inquiry on Syria said a cessation of hostilities agreed in February had finally offered “a glimmer of hope” to civilians who have endured five-and-a-half years of horrific violence.

But it pointed out that just a month later, fighting and indiscriminate attacks on civilian areas, including numerous hospitals, had surged.

“The cessation of hostilities agreement brought a welcome respite for civilians that lasted all too briefly,” the commission said in its 12th report, covering the period from January to July 2016.

The three-member team emphasised the need to restore the ceasefire, insisting that “the sense of hope engendered earlier this year must be revitalised.”

And it urged more support for UN Syria envoy Staffan de Mistura, who is struggling to get the stalled talks back on track.

The report was published after US President Barack Obama and Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin met for talks on Syria on the sidelines of a G20 meeting in China this week, which were described “productive”.

But the two powers failed to produce an expected deal to ease the violence in Syria, where more than 290,000 people have been killed and more than half the population displaced since March 2011.