http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3863076/Boris-claims-Michael-Gove-s-henchman-stole-phone-scupper-PM-bid.html
130
13
Bitter Boris Johnson has denounced Michael Gove as 'deeply Machiavellian and flawed' for the way he knifed him in the Tory leadership contest.

And he has accused Gove's henchman, Tory MP Nick Boles, of 'stealing' his phone to sabotage his attempt to team up with leadership rival Andrea Leadsom.

In the first major revelations since their leadership fallout, allies of Johnson say he will never forgive Gove and Boles for the brutal way they killed off his dream of becoming Prime Minister in July.

Johnson had to abandon his bid after Gove, who had promised to back his Brexit ally, mounted his own last-minute leadership bid – without telling Johnson.

Boris Johnson (left) has denounced Michael Gove (right) as 'deeply Machiavellian and flawed' for the way he knifed him in the Tory leadership contest

The former London Mayor has refused to comment publicly on Gove's betrayal, but the Mail On Sunday has established that he has told friends: 'The trouble with Michael is he is deeply Machiavellian and a flawed character.'

Johnson and his team have also vented their fury with 'double agent' Boles. Johnson's right-hand man, Tory MP Nigel Adams, called Boles a 'c*** in a Commons tea-room outburst and vowed: 'I'd like to nail the b****** against the wall and give him a good kicking.' Johnson is said to be livid at learning of the full extent of Boles's 'duplicity' when his vital plan to win Leadsom's backing collapsed hours before he was due to launch his campaign.

Johnson and Leadsom agreed to exchange texts at 8pm confirming the deal. Instead, she launched her own bid and Gove used it to justify following suit – forcing Johnson to pull out. Sources close to Johnson revealed he has since spoken to Leadsom to ask what went wrong.

'Andrea told him she texted him but he never replied, so she assumed the deal was off and she declared her own bid,' said one source. 'Boris said, 'But I never got it, Andrea.' Then it dawned on him. 'Of course! Boles had my phone! Boles!'

'His jaw hit the floor. He suddenly realised how Nick did the dirty on him. Andrea found her text message and read it out to him.' Johnson had spent the evening at a Tory ball at London's Hurlingham Club, chaperoned by Boles, whom he wrongly assumed was loyal.

Boles, who knew about the Leadsom deal, had volunteered to 'look after' Johnson's phone so he had 'no distractions'. Boles was also tasked with giving Leadsom a letter from Boris confirming the deal. She never got it.

Boles took unsuspecting Johnson home at around midnight – then went to Gove's house to finalise his secret leadership bid, knifing hapless Johnson. Friends of Johnson say Boles's treachery went further than 'stealing' his phone.

One said: 'Gove's lot said he had to run because Boris was disorganised and Boles was shocked to find he hadn't started his leadership speech by midnight the day before the launch. It was a con. We set six hours free earlier in the afternoon for him to do it but Boles and co kept distracting him.

'Now we know why: to give them a bogus excuse to betray him.'

Gove has since admitted he was wrong to betray Johnson. By contrast, tetchy Boles last week threatened to walk out of a BBC interview when quizzed about his conduct.

Before the BBC clash, he snapped at this newspaper: 'I have nothing to say. You are just trying to make me angry.'

The former London Mayor has refused to comment publicly on Gove's betrayal, but the Mail On Sunday has established that he has told friends: 'The trouble with Michael is he is deeply Machiavellian and a flawed character

THE GOVES QUIT NOTTING HILL... TO AVOID DAVE Michael Gove is house-hunting – to avoid bumping into David Cameron. Friends say he is keen to move because he lives near the Notting Hill house owned by the former PM. The pair have not spoken since Gove helped to destroy Cameron’s career by backing Brexit.

Boles's role has also been questioned by some of Gove's supporters. They say Boles justified Gove's actions by saying he was 'only doing what William Hague did in 1997 when he saved the Tories from being led by Michael Howard' – referring to the way Hague initially backed Howard, then changed his mind and ran his own successful leadership campaign. Howard later became leader in 2003.

One Gove ally said: 'Michael's treachery to Boris was on a totally different scale and we all knew it.'

When Gove's campaign ended in disaster, Johnson's campaign chief and friend, Australian polling guru Lynton Crosby, consoled him: 'It serves Gove right. He shot you in the back through his own foot.'