http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/707948/Corsica-judge-burkini-ban-high-court-ruling-sisco-french-high-court-ruling
190
19
GETTY A CORSICAN judge has ruled the burkini ban should stay

It comes as France's highest court ruled against the banning of the burkini, a full-body swimming costume worn by some Muslim women. The court said the ban was a "serious infringement on fundamental freedoms that are the freedom of movement, the freedom of belief and personal freedom".

The presence on a beach in Sisco of a woman wearing a swimming costume of the type targeted [by the ban] … could cause risks to public order which it is the town hall’s duty to prevent Corsica judge ruling

However a judge on the French island said the ban imposed by the mayor of Sisco, Ange-Pierre Vivoni, should be upheld. The court said: “The presence on a beach in Sisco of a woman wearing a swimming costume of the type targeted [by the ban] … could cause risks to public order which it is the town hall’s duty to prevent.” The mayor described the ruling to uphold the ban as a "relief for me and local people".

He also added he imposed the ban because he "risked having deaths on my hands". Clashes broke out last month in the island commune of Sisco after a Muslim woman wore a full-length dress on a beach, leaving five injured. Further tensions boiled over as a crowd of 200 Corsicans marched through a housing estate with a high North African population, shouting "this is our home".

GETTY There were protests around outside the French embassy about the ban of the burkini

Four people were injured in the skirmish as riot police were called to diffuse the fraught situation. The burkini has been banned by French mayors in around 30 coastal resorts.

GETTY Ange-Pierre Vivoni, right, is the first left-wing mayor to ban the burkini

The Burkini in pictures Fri, August 26, 2016 Photographs have emerged of armed French police confronting a woman on a beach and making her remove some of her clothing as part of a controversial ban on the burkini. We take a look at the burkini through news pictures Play slideshow Ken McKay/ITV/REX/Shutterstock 1 of 12 A model wearing a 'burkini' on ITV 'This Morning'. Images of French armed police officers ordering a Muslim woman to remove her 'burkini' on a packed Nice beach has further fuelled a debate over the banning of the full-body Islamic swimsuit