http://www.sfgate.com/news/article/Islamic-State-group-claims-Nice-attacker-as-a-8382520.php
139
13
Islamic State group claims Nice attacker as a ‘soldier’





Photo: DMITRY KOSTYUKOV, NYT Image 1 of / 2 Caption Close Image 1 of 2 People mourn at a makeshift memorial on the Promenade des Anglais in Nice, where a man drove a 19-ton truck through the Bastille Day fireworks crowds, killing 84 and leaving hundreds more wounded. People mourn at a makeshift memorial on the Promenade des Anglais in Nice, where a man drove a 19-ton truck through the Bastille Day fireworks crowds, killing 84 and leaving hundreds more wounded. Photo: DMITRY KOSTYUKOV, NYT Image 2 of 2 A man views a memorial Sunday to the victims of the Bastille Day attack in Nice, France. The Islamic State group claimed responsibility for the truck attack that killed 84 people during Thursday’s national holiday. less A man views a memorial Sunday to the victims of the Bastille Day attack in Nice, France. The Islamic State group claimed responsibility for the truck attack that killed 84 people during Thursday’s national ... more Photo: ANNE-CHRISTINE POUJOULAT, AFP/Getty Images Islamic State group claims Nice attacker as a ‘soldier’ 1 / 2 Back to Gallery

NICE, France — The Islamic State claimed Saturday that the man who attacked the seaside city of Nice was one of the group’s “soldiers.” France’s defense minister promptly blamed the terrorist network for inspiring the assault, while its top law enforcement official said the attacker, who was not previously known to intelligence agencies, may have “radicalized himself very quickly.”

The attacker, Mohamed Bouhlel, carried out the assault Thursday evening using a 19-ton refrigerated truck and an automatic pistol. The death toll remained at 84, but the number of injured rose to 303, of whom 121 were in hospitals, 26 of them in intensive care.

France, traumatized by three major terrorist assaults in 19 months, began three days of national mourning Saturday.

The Islamic State had kept silent on the Nice attack until Saturday morning, when it declared, in a bulletin issued in Arabic and in English on its Amaq News Agency channel: “Executor of the deadly operation in Nice, France, was a soldier of the Islamic State. He executed the operation in response to calls to target citizens of coalition nations, which fight the Islamic State.”

The claim must be greeted with caution, because there was yet no evidence suggesting that the driver was radicalized, or had even been exposed to the Islamic State’s propaganda.

After a husband and wife killed 14 people in San Bernardino in December, the Amaq News Agency described them as “two supporters,” making it clear that the Islamic State had not directed their actions. But after a gunman, Omar Mateen, killed 49 people at a gay nightclub in Orlando, Fla., last month, having pledged loyalty to the group, it called him a “fighter.”

In a statement Saturday on its radio station, the Islamic State referred to Bouhlel as “a soldier” who had responded to the group’s call “to target states participating in the crusader coalition that fights the caliphate.”

In 2014, the Islamic State’s spokesman, Abu Muhammad al-Adnani, called on the group’s followers to attack Westerners in retaliation for strikes by the U.S.-led coalition fighting the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria. He has repeatedly singled out France, which is part of the coalition, as a main enemy.

No evidence has emerged that Bouhlel got training or orders from the Islamic State, unlike the perpetrators of attacks in and around Paris on Nov. 13 and Brussels on March 22.

Bouhlel, 31, a native of Tunisia, had a history of petty crime going back to 2010. He received a six-month suspended sentence this year for assaulting a motorist but was not on the radar of French intelligence agencies. Indeed, he seemed more like a surly misfit — he beat his wife, until she threw him out — than a prospective terrorist.

The country’s top law enforcement official, Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve, said Saturday: “The individual who committed this absolutely despicable, unspeakable crime was not known by the intelligence services, as he had not stood out over the past years — whether through court convictions or through his activity — for support of radical Islamist ideology.”

But Cazeneuve added: “It seems that he radicalized himself very quickly.”