http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/708113/Turkey-joins-forces-US-wipe-ISIS-terror-capital-Raqqa
195
19
GETTY he plan to smash ISIS in Raqqa was apparently hatched during the G20 summit in China

President Barack Obama has floated the idea of joint action with Ankara to capture ISIS' self-declared capital, which has been the scene of some of the group's most barbaric acts. The plan to smash ISIS in Raqqa was apparently hatched during the G20 summit in China on Monday. On the plane back from Hangzhou, President Tayyip Erdogan said Turkey's military was ready to join the fight.

He said: "Obama wants to do some things together concerning Raqqa in particular. "We stated that would not be a problem from our perspective. "We said, 'Let our soldiers come together, whatever is necessary will be done'."

Turkish Military Coup: 294 dead Wed, July 27, 2016 THE violent military coup to overthrow Turkey's President Erdogan has 'failed' leaving at least 104 dead and more than 1,500 wounded – but reports suggest fighting is still ongoing Play slideshow AFP/Getty Images 1 of 42 People react after they take over military position on the Bosphorus bridge in Istanbul on July 16, 2016

Both countries will hold further talks to hammer out the details of any joint action. Turkey is regarded as instrumental in the fight against ISIS, bordering Syria and acting as a major transit route for rebels and arms heading there. Hundreds of Turks have also been recruited to fight in Syria with ISIS. But Ankara has made a concerted effort to push back against the fanatical regime and Turkey and its rebel allies now control a 60-mile stretch of land on the Syrian side of the border.

GETTY President Tayyip Erdogan said Turkey's military was ready to join the fight

GETTY Turkey is regarded as instrumental in the fight against ISIS

GETTY Obama and Erdogan at a meeting at the G20 summit

Turkey has been an active player in the fight against the twisted terror network, rolling its tanks into Syria last month to push ISIS fighters back from the border. But its focus has also been on Kurdish rebels, including the YPG, who are also tackling ISIS and who the West is backing. President Erdogan added: "At this stage we have to show our presence in the region. "We do not have the chance to take a backward step. "If we take a backward step terror groups like Daesh, PKK, PYD and YPG will settle there."