http://www.wsj.com/articles/turkey-coup-attempt-forces-more-flight-cancellations-1468756641
130
13
ENLARGE Passengers wait after their flights were cancelled after a failed coup attempt at Atatürk International Airport in Istanbul on Saturday. Photo: European Pressphoto Agency

LONDON—Airline passengers faced a second day of disruptions in the aftermath of Friday’s failed coup attempt in Turkey as carriers canceled flights and reduced schedules.

National carrier Turkish Airlines on Sunday said it had canceled about 200 flights, including a small number already for Monday. The airline canceled hundreds of flights Saturday, though tried to restore operations during the day on the request of the country’s president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan.

Turkish budget airline Pegasus Hava Tasimaciligi AS , which Sunday had some flight cancellations, said it was offering free rebookings to those wanting to alter their travel plans.

The Federal Aviation Administration early Sunday maintained a ban on all U.S. carriers to fly to Turkey and barred any direct inbound flights.

British Airways said it would operate a reduced schedule on Sunday and that passengers may experience delays. Deutsche Lufthansa AG Sunday said it was restoring operations after canceling most flights the day before. Two flights Sunday were scrapped for operational reasons, it said.

The turmoil in Turkey also led European plane maker Airbus Group SE to cancel Tuesday’s first delivery of a new plane. The aircraft, the first A320neo single-aisle jet powered by engines from a joint venture between General Electric Co. and Safran SA, is due to be delivered to Pegasus. The airline had requested the change, it said.

Tourism group Thomas Cook Group PLC said staff on the ground had reported that its Turkish resorts were calm, though it would allow anxious customers bound for the country Sunday to cancel or alter plans free of charge.

The events in Turkey come at a time of heightened anxiety for passengers amid a slew of terrorist attacks that have weighed on bookings.

Airlines and tour groups on Friday were already dealing with the impact from Thursday night’s terror attack in Nice, France, when a truck plowed into revelers during a national holiday, killing at least 84 people. Carriers and travel companies were offering customers changes to travel plans free of charge in the immediate aftermath of the tragedy.

Last month, terrorists struck Istanbul’s Atatürk Airport, killing more than 40 people.

ForwardKeys, which analyzes bookings trends, said after last month’s attack at Atatürk Airport bookings to Istanbul in the subsequent week dropped 69% and transfers retreated 36%.

After a failed military coup Friday that rocked Turkey, leaving over 250 dead, Turkish President Recep Erdogan's government has reasserted control. Loyalist elements of the Turkish military have begun seizing buildings back from the coup plotters, and more than 2,800 military personnel have been detained for questioning. Photo: Getty

Bookings for the rest of the year were already lagging even before any further fallout from the failed coup attempt. International arrivals in Istanbul for the coming six months, as of July 2, were 36% lower than a year earlier, ForwardKeys said. Fewer passengers also appear to be transiting via the busy hub, with transfers from the Americas down 13%.

European airlines and travel companies are reeling from a spate of recent terrorist attacks, including the bombing of a Russian airliner last October, the shootings in Paris the following month and attacks in Brussels in March.

Demand has also been dented by a spate of air accidents, repeated air-traffic control strikes throughout Europe, and Britain’s vote last month to leave the European Union.

EasyJet last month issued a profit warning, saying bookings had suffered because of a range of factors including the May crash of an EgyptAir plane and flight cancellations caused by controller strikes. British Airways parent International Continental Airlines Group SA issued a profit warning last month hours after the Brexit vote. Air France has also suffered a €40 million ($44.4 million) earnings hit from a recent pilots strike.

Shares in Pegasus are down 20% this year. Thomas Cook’s stock has slumped about 47% and TUI is 21% lower. EasyJet shares are 35% lower since the start of the year and IAG is down 30%.

Write to Robert Wall at robert.wall@wsj.com