http://www.business-standard.com/article/pti-stories/huge-crowds-of-pilgrims-pack-iraq-s-karbala-for-ashura-116101200901_1.html
192
19
Huge crowds of pilgrims pack Iraq's Karbala for Ashura

Huge crowds of black-clad Shiite Muslim pilgrims thronged the Iraqi shrine city of Karbala today, weeping and beating their chests in mourning for the seventh-century killing of the prophet's grandson.



Shiites around the world mark Ashura, but attacks on those commemorating bloodshed 1,300 years ago often result in more mourning and loss, including in Afghanistan, where more than 30 people were killed in attacks on Shiites in less than 24 hours.



Up to 18 were killed in yesterday in two attacks claimed by the Islamic State jihadist group, while a bomb hit a mosque in northern today, killing at least 14 more, officials said.



Shiites in Iraq too have come under frequent attack by Sunni extremist group IS, which considers them heretics.



Some 30,000 security personnel were deployed in and around Karbala to protect pilgrims, although attacks inside the city are rare.



The annual commemorations mark the killing of Imam Hussein by the forces of the Caliph Yazid in 680 AD -- a formative event in Shiite Islam.



The pilgrimage draws huge numbers of faithful, with Staff Major General Qais Khalaf Rahaima, the head of the security command responsible for the area, saying that 4.5 million people had visited Karbala over a period of 10 days.



Haider al-Salami, spokesman for the Imam Hussein shrine, said two million people took part in a ritual run from outside the city to the mausoleum today.



Earlier in the day, black-clad pilgrims massed at the shrine to listen to a recitation of the story of Hussein's death, with some beating their chests or heads and weeping in mourning.



Then came the ritual run, followed by the burning of a tent representing Yazid's forces destroying Imam Hussein's camp -- the last of the rituals.



"We will continue to commemorate the imam despite terrorist threats," said Saad Jassem, a 35-year-old from nearby Najaf, another Shiite shrine city.



Fellow pilgrim, Karim Hussein, 40, from the southern port city of Basra, said taking part carried a message for corrupt Iraqi politicians, who have come under mounting fire in the past two years but have done little to reform.



It is "a message to the politicians to fix themselves, because he (Imam Hussein) rose up and revolted against corrupt rulers".



In Lebanon, thousands of Shiite faithful gathered in Beirut's southern suburbs, where Hezbollah chief Hassan Nasrallah made a relatively rare public appearance on the occasion of Ashura.



The appearance came just days after an air strike apparently carried out by Saudi-led forces hit a funeral for the father of a rebel leader in Sanaa, killing more than 140 people.

(This story has not been edited by Business Standard staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)

AFP