http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/killer-watch-batteries-burning-through-8889841
190
19
Get daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email

Shocking pictures show how killer button batteries can burn their way through flesh.

The images reveal how a standard battery inserted in a hotdog sausage completely burns and melts away the meat in just three hours - and can do the same to human flesh.

Parents are being warned of the dangers of killer button batteries, which look like small sweets, after at least two children who swallowed them died.

Paediatrician Dr Katie Parkins is calling for a national campaign to alert parents to the risks.

(Photo: CASCADE NEWS)

(Photo: CASCADE NEWS)

And the consultant for the Paediatric Intensive Care Transport Service in the North West also wants to raise medical awareness as many doctors are unaware of the harm the batteries can cause.

A recent inquest in Australia in which a four-year-old girl died after swallowing a battery found the medical care was 'inadequate'.

Summer Steel vomited half a litre of blood in June 2013 after ingesting a 2cm battery and was reportedly sent home twice from Noosa hospital in Queensland before she died with one doctor diagnosing a nose bleed.

As well as two deaths, at least five children in Greater Manchester alone have suffered life changing injuries in the last 18 months.

(Photo: CASCADE NEWS)

There have also been reports of the batteries being swallowed by the elderly who have confused them with their pills, and have swallowed them by mistake.

Dr Perkins says the button-shaped batteries "look like sweets" to children but cause serious internal bleeding which medics struggle to treat.

And the newer slimmer type of batteries are even more dangerous because the size causes them to get stuck in the throat.

When the battery gets stuck it sets up an electrical current when it comes in contact with the lining of the throat creating a build-up of caustic soda which causes horrific burns.

Even after the battery has been removed it can continue to cause serious injury and burns.

In one of the deaths the unnamed child died more than a week after surgeons removed the battery when the patient who at first appeared to have recovered later suffered catastrophic bleeding.

(Photo: CASCADE NEWS)

And one child who put a button battery up their nose was left with a permanently perforated septum after it burnt away the flesh despite being dislodged after just a few hours.

Although new batteries are more toxic even ones that no longer work are dangerous and parents are being advised to store and dispose of them carefully.

The Child Death Overview Panel in the North West has sent out a newsletter containing warning information which has been distributed to nurseries and schools and other UK heath and emergency services are starting to follow suit.

Lithium batteries have increased in popularity in recent years as toys and gadgets become smaller and they are in thousands items such as toys, cards and decorations, remote controls and smartphones.

Research in America shows there has been a massive increase in the number of cases over the last few years.

Dr Parkins said: "There have already been two reported deaths in the Greater Manchester area directly linked to swallowing these batteries so it's important parents are aware of the serious harm they can cause.

"Children under six years are most at risk but severe injury can happen to any age group.

"The most serious cases are associated with newer style of Lithium button batteries larger than 20mm which are the size of a 10p piece. These can get stuck in the throat and this is where the battery can cause the most harm in as little as two hours.

"Parents need to be aware there may be no symptoms at first or that they may be similar to other illnesses such as coughing or not eating or drinking normally. Children can usually breathe with the battery in their throat so it may be difficult to spot.

"It is vital to get to hospital as soon as possible for treatment."