http://www.news.com.au/world/asia/lawyers-for-aussie-mum-sara-connor-want-to-call-two-sydney-women-as-defence-witnesses-at-her-trial-over-bali-cop-murder/news-story/97b7143d896cad22d80aa0650f081214
190
19
Video

Image Death in Bali: Timeline of events 2:01 The death of a Bali cop has lead to Aussie Sara Connor and Brit David Taylor being held in Denpasar Police Station as suspects. As they await any charges, here is a timeline of events.

Cindy Wockner and Komang Erviani News Corp Australia Network

LAWYERS for Byron Bay mum Sara Connor will seek to call two Sydney women as witnesses in her upcoming trial in Bali over the killing of a police officer.

Connor’s Australian barrister, Peter Strain, said last night the two Australian witnesses were very important to her case, despite police and prosecutors not including their evidence.

“We will certainly be attempting to call the two sisters who heard Sara screaming “let him go, leave him alone. This evidence appears to be entirely consistent with Sara’s version of events,” he said.

“We have great respect for the Indonesian legal system and are hopeful that once all the evidence is heard Sara will be acquitted and be able to go home to her children.”

And Connor’s Indonesian lawyer, Robert Khuana, said the legal team was confident of beating the charges against the Byron Bay businesswoman.

Prosecutors yesterday confirmed that Connor and her British boyfriend David Taylor will face three charges — murder, violence causing death and assault causing death — when their case comes to court next month.

The prosecution team yesterday declared that the police brief of evidence, known as a dossier, is complete.

But it does not included statements from the Sydney women.

Sisters Coleen Bowen and Kim Watson were staying in beachfront rooms at the Pullman Hotel, across the road from the beach where the officer died.

On the night of the death both were woken by screaming and fighting from the beach and have since offered to make statements for the investigation.

Denpasar Prosecutions crime section head, Ketut Maha Agung, said the prosecutions team did not think it necessary to take their statements.

“We have declared the dossier is complete and there is no statement from them. Without it we think that its already enough to declare it P21 and hand it over to the court,” Mr Agung said.

“For the prosecution team all the witnesses in the dossier are enough.”

Haposan Sihombing, Taylor’s lawyer, said once he had studied the dossier he would decide if the two women were needed as witnesses in his client’s case.

Both Connor and Taylor will face identical charges in separate trials — murder, carrying a 15-year maximum jail term, violence causing death, with a 12-year maximum and assault causing death, which has a seven year maximum term.

In the first stage of a handover process known as P21, Denpasar prosecutions chief, Erna Normawati Widodo, said she had signed a letter declaring the brief of evidence complete.

Within days both Connor and Taylor will be handed to the custody of prosecutors and will be sent to Kerobokan prison to await their trial.

Since their arrest on August 19 the lovers have been held in the police holding cells at the Denpasar police station.

They are accused of the bashing murder of Bali police officer Wayan Sudarsa, whose bloodied body was discovered on a Kuta beach in the early hours of August 17.

The 30-year police veteran had suffered 17 head wounds and 42 wounds to his body altogether and died of head injuries. It is alleged that Taylor repeatedly bashed him about the head with a broken beer bottle, the officer’s own binoculars and a mobile phone.

When they arrive at Kerobokan they will initially be held in the cell blocks designated for new arrivals, in order for them to acclimatise to jail life.

Connor will be in the women’s block and Taylor will be in the men’s section and they will only be allowed to socialise if they have visitors at the same time. The jail has long been chronically overcrowded.

Connor’s lawyers argue that there is not enough evidence to have her charged with murder and that from the beginning she has given the same version to investigators — that she was not involved in the murder but tried to break up a fight between her boyfriend and the police officer which started after an argument about her lost handbag.

Connor claims that after trying to separate the two she left and went away down the beach, looking for her handbag, and played no further role in the alleged incident.

Connor’s lawyer Mr Khuana said yesterday that in order to use the murder charge police should have evidence.

photo gallery Bali police murder investigation Denpasar police move Sara Connor from the crime section cells to the main cells where her boyfriend David Taylor is detained on September 27th. Picture: Lukman S.Bintoro Mugshot of Sara Connor from inside the dossier that was handed over by police to the Prosecutor in Denpasar, Bali on September 9th Picture: Supplied Sara Connor is escorted from the cells of Denpasar Police Station for further questioning today on September 26th. Picture: Lukman S. Bintoro. Mugshot of David Taylor inside the dossier that was handed over by police to the Prosecutor in Denpasar, Bali on September 9th Picture: Supplied Sara Connor pictured at Denpasar Police Station today before being interviewd by police on September 23rd. Picture: Lukman S. Bintoro Motorbikes impounded by police as evidence in the Bali police office murder case: The motorbike on the left belonged to deceased Balinese police officer Wayan Sudarsa and the bike on the right is the one rented in Jimbaran Bay by David Taylor and Sara Connor which they used to go to the Australian Consulate to ask protection before the were arrested. Picture: Lukman S. Bintoro Home stay in Pantai Jimbaran St no.7 where David Taylor and Sara Connor stayed after the incident that caused a Police officer to die on Kuta beach. David Taylor and Sara Connor were staying in the room on the first floor. Picture: Lukman S. Bintoro Sara Connors's ex-husband Anthony Connor talks to media in Denpasar on September 2. Picture: Lukman S. Bintoro Sara and Twig Connor and their children on February 13, 2013 Picture: Facebook Australian Sara Connor at the Balinese Police HQ from Denpasar Police station having psychological testing. Picture: Lukman S. Bintoro The body of Wayan Sudarsa is taken to the cemetery to be cremated in Jimbaran, Bali. Wayan Sudarsa was found murdered on Kuta beach on August 17, 2016. Picture: Komang Erviani Balinese people carry the coffin containing the body of police officer Wayan Sudarsa who died on Kuta Beach on Indonesia’s resort island of Bali on August 17th, 2016. Picture: AFP Australian Sara Connor escorted by Police to do a physical examination at Sanglah Hospital in Denpasar. Picture: Lukman S. Bintoro Family of Wayan Sudarsa, a Kuta Polic officer found murdered on Kuta beach, held a cleaning ceremony at the crime scene. Picture: Lukman S Bintoro Sara Connor and David Taylor inside the Police investigation room in Denpasar Police Station on September 2 during their confrontation over discrepancies in their statements. Picture: Lukman S. Bintoro Bali Police Murder Re-enactment. Murder suspects, Australian Sara Connor and her British boyfriend David Taylor take part in a re-enactment scenario in relation to the murder of Bali police officer Wayan Sudarsa at Kuta Beach on August 17, 2016. Pic: Zul Edoardo David Taylor participates in the reconstruction of the death of a police officer at Kuta beach in Bali, Indonesia, 31 August 2016. PIture : supplied David Taylor, one of the prime suspects to the murder of police officer Wayan Sudarsa, is seen at the crime scene taking part in the murder re-enactment on August 31, 2016, in Kuta, Bali, Indonesia. Australian Sara Connor and British David Taylor are accused of murdering a Bali police officer, Wayan Sudarsa, after his body was found with 42 wounds, including to his head and neck, at Kuta beach on 17 August. Picture: Getty Bali Police Officer Murder: Sara Connor and David Taylor taking part in the police reenactment on Kuta beach on August 31 Picture: Zul Eduardo Sara Connor and David Taylor taking part in the police reenactment on Kuta beach on August 31 Picture: Zul Edoardo Sara Connor and David Taylor in Jimbaran during the police reenactment of events around the murder of a Balinese police officer Picture: Zul Eduardo Sara Connor and David Taylor kiss goodbye after the police reenactment of events around the murder of a Balinese police officer Picture: Zul Eduardo Sara Connor after her interrogation with David Taylor in the Police investigation room in Denpasar Police Station on September 2. The confrontation was over discrepancies in their statements. Picture: Lukman S. Bintoro Murdered police officer Wayan Sudarsa’s ID cards, wallet, tax card, drivers licence, gun card, police rank insignia etc which were found by a local, dumped by the road in a white plastic bag at Pecatu, about 16 km from the hotel in Jimbaran where the couple stayed. The man pointing in the picture is the man who found them and he is pointing at the spot they were found. Picture: supplied David Taylor is escorted by Indonesian police at a station in Denpasar on Indonesia’s resort island of Bali on August 24, 2016. Picture: AFP Sara Connor is escorted by Indonesia police officials at a station in Denpasar on Indonesia’s resort island of Bali on August 19, 2016. Indonesian police have detained an Australian woman and a British man over the brutal murder of a policeman on a popular Bali beach. Traffic police officer Wayan Sudarsa was found dead in his uniform on Kuta beach on August 17th, Picture: supplied Photo of Sara Connor in custody in Bali over the death of a policeman. Picture: Lukman S Bintoro Bali police officer WAYAN SUDARSA, 53, a kuta traffic police officer, who was found murdered on a Kuta beach on August 17th. Picture: supplied This picture shows an entry gate cordoned by police line at the site where a policeman was killed on Kuta beach on August 17th, 2016. Indonesian authorities are hunting for an Australian woman and a British man in connection with the murder of a policeman on the resort island of Bali, officials said. Picture: AFP 1 of 29 HIDE THUMBS

“At least they should have evidence that Sara had punched the victim … The fact that we get and from the re-enactment is that Sara never took part in hitting the victim. She only separated them. So the police should not impose those articles,” Mr Khuana said.

He said the most Connor should face is concealing evidence.

This relates to allegations that, in the days after the murder, Connor and Taylor burned their bloody clothes in an isolated spot and threw away the dead officers ID cards and mobile phone before seeking refuge at the Australian Consulate in Bali.

Connor has two young boys in her home town of Byron Bay who she has not seen since her Bali arrest.

She had only arrived in Bali in the afternoon before the officer’s death for a week’s getaway with her lover, Taylor, who was heading back to the UK.