http://www.nytimes.com/2016/08/29/us/dwyane-wade-cousin-killed-chicago.html
192
19
CHICAGO — The police said on Sunday that two brothers, both felons on parole, were trying to shoot a driver last week when their gunshots fatally struck Nykea Aldridge, a young mother pushing a stroller on a nearby sidewalk.

The fatal shooting itself was tragically common here in Chicago, where 441 people had already been killed this year as of Aug. 21. But Ms. Aldridge’s death has gained widespread attention both because she was an innocent bystander with a stroller and because she was the cousin of the N.B.A. star Dwyane Wade.

The Chicago police quickly arrested two men in connection with Ms. Aldridge’s death, and announced charges against them on Sunday. The suspects, Darwin Sorrells Jr. and his younger brother, Derren Sorrells, each face charges of first-degree murder and attempted first-degree murder.

Police investigators said the men, ages 26 and 22, did not mean to shoot Ms. Aldridge, but were instead trying to shoot a driver who had traveled with women to Chicago’s South Side from the suburbs.

Ms. Aldridge, 32, who lived just down the street from where she was shot on Friday, died later that day at a hospital from multiple gunshot wounds. The child in the stroller Ms. Aldridge was pushing, said to be one of her four children, was unharmed and taken in by relatives, the police said.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“I’m frustrated, you should be frustrated, all Chicagoans should be frustrated,” Superintendent Eddie Johnson of the Chicago Police Department said on Sunday at a news conference.

In trying to tamp down violent crime, Superintendent Johnson has repeatedly urged stiffer sentences for certain violent criminals. Illinois prison records show that both Sorrells brothers are convicted felons who had been released early on parole.

Darwin Sorrells Jr. was sentenced to six years on gun and stolen property charges in 2013, but was placed on parole in February. Derren Sorrells was sentenced to six years in prison in 2012 for having a stolen car, but had been paroled on Aug. 12, two weeks before the shooting of Ms. Aldridge.

First Draft Political news and analysis from the staff of The New York Times. Sign-up for free NYT Newsletters Morning Briefing News to start your day, weekdays Opinion Today Thought-provoking commentary, weekdays Cooking Delicious recipes and more, 5 times a week Race/Related A provocative exploration of race, biweekly Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“This reprehensible act of violence is an example of why we need to change the way we treat habitual offenders in the city of Chicago,” Superintendent Johnson said. “When will enough be enough?”

Gun violence in Chicago, an issue that has plagued the city for decades, has taken on greater urgency this year. Officers are coping with a murder rate that is up roughly 50 percent from that of last year, as well as turmoil within their ranks and controversy about police shootings.

After Ms. Aldridge was shot, Donald J. Trump, the Republican presidential nominee, said on Twitter: “Dwayne Wade’s cousin was just shot and killed walking her baby in Chicago. Just what I have been saying. African-Americans will VOTE TRUMP!” Mr. Trump corrected the spelling of Mr. Wade’s first name and extended sympathies to the family in later Twitter posts.

Mr. Wade, who grew up near Chicago and who recently joined the Chicago Bulls, has also posted on Twitter several times about his cousin’s death, saying that “four kids lost their mom for NO REASON” and using the hashtag #EnoughIsEnough.

According to the Cook County Sheriff’s Office, both Sorrells brothers were being jailed Sunday evening with no bail. They are each due in court on Monday.

Amid the publicity around Ms. Aldridge’s death, the city’s gunfire has continued. The Chicago Tribune reported three people were killed and 23 wounded in shootings between Saturday afternoon and early Sunday morning, and that at least five more had been shot by Sunday evening. Also on Sunday, a Police Department spokesman said on Twitter that officers had fired shots at an armed suspect but missed.