https://www.yahoo.com/news/beloved-nuns-stabbed-death-mississippi-203042238.html
190
19
When Susan Gatz learned last week that one of her sister nuns, Paula Merrill, had been killed in Mississippi, she sent up a prayer to welcome Paula to heaven.



The violence of Merrill's death broke Gatz's heart – having to know that Merrill and her decades-long friend and fellow nun Margaret Held, both 68, were stabbed to death in their home, in a possible break-in. She tears up even talking about it.



But the Merrill and Held lived brings her solace.



"Now, they're in the embrace of the God they gave their whole lives to," Gatz tells PEOPLE.



Gatz, president of Merill's religious congregation, the Sisters of Charity of Nazareth, says that Held and Merrill were "extraordinary in just an ordinary, simple way."



The two nuns and nurse practitioners met while serving in Holly Springs in the '80s and became friends there, before moving to a number of different parts of Mississippi. Gatz says they worked in poor, rural communities across the state.



"What made them superb is they loved the people they served," Gatz says.



Paula was quiet but fun-loving, with a collection of Donald Duck figurines, Gatz says. If she was in a certain silly mood, she'd do a spot-in impression of the cartoon character as a way to entertain her young patients.



Held, a member of the School Sisters of St. Francis, and Merrill had worked for the last few years at the Lexinton Medical Clinic in Holmes County, a small place with a high poverty rate. "I think the thing that really makes them outstanding is how they treated people, how they loved them," Gatz says.





Gatz says that Held and Merrill's long personal and professional relationship, between nuns of different religious congregations, is not "so unusual," and that it happens more and more.



She says the pair was endlessly hospitable to whomever they encountered, quick to share their home or give a tour of Durant, the town where they lived. Held was excellent in the kitchen, and handled the cooking, while Merrill, ever handy, was the maintenance woman.



Once they figured out how you liked your coffee, they never asked again.



"It was more than a job for them, it really was a way of life," Gatz says.



• Want to keep up with the latest crime coverage? Click here to get breaking crime news, ongoing trial coverage and details of intriguing unsolved cases in the True Crime Newsletter.





View photos Beloved Nuns Stabbed to Death in Mississippi Were 'Extraordinary in Just an Ordinary, Simple Way'| Crime & Courts, True Crime More

Authorities Have Not Discussed Motive

Their violent deaths are bewildering to those who knew them. On Friday, authorities announced they had arrested Rodney Sanders, 46, and charged him with two counts of capital murder in the stabbings.



Sanders was being held in an "undisclosed detention center awaiting his initial court appearance," authorities said. It was not immediately clear Monday if he had retained an attorney or entered a plea, and a Mississippi Bureau of Investigation spokesman did not immediately respond to PEOPLE's request for comment.



Authorities have not discussed a motive, though there was reportedly evidence of a break-in at the victims' home and their car was found after the homicide a short distance away.



Sanders was not a patient at the clinic where Held and Merrill worked, a physician there told the Associated Press.



Speaking to PEOPLE, Gatz says that unanswered questions have left people "with a certain amount of unknowing, so I think we're all kind of at that stage." She says neither Held nor Merrill ever indicated they feared for their safety.





Over the weekend and on Monday, hundreds gathered together to say their goodbyes, at services in Lexington and Jackson.



Gatz says her congregation has been covered over by an "outpouring" of love and support, from sisters all over the world.



"You just feel like you're being wrapped in the care of so many people," she says.



Days before the deaths last week, Merrill traveled from Mississippi to the headquarters of her Kentucky-based congregation. She regularly made such trips, but this time stayed a little longer than usual.



"Now looking back, you think, what a gift that was: Oh I'm so happy I had this little last chat with her," Gatz says.



Maureen Smith, a spokeswoman for the Catholic Diocese of Jackson, previously told PEOPLE that both women were "quiet, humble, amazing."



"They were just people who got stuff done," Smith said.



"They were creating community with all of these people," Gatz says.



"That's what made them so dear," she says, "and that's what is going to be so difficult for people."