http://www.iol.co.za/news/africa/there-will-be-attacks-zim-protesters-warn-2062079
190
19
On Sunday several Facebook and Twitter accounts in support of the mass protests gripping the nation called on all people to either join or stay away if they didn't want to get hurt.

Johannesburg - Mass shutdowns and stayaways have once again been called across Zimbabwe as protests in main cities escalate.

epa05512896 Zanu PF supporters protest to show their anger over the recent protests that have rocked the capital by opposition parties in Harare, Zimbabwe, 28 August 2016. During the meeting at the party headquarters ,the supporters vowed their allegiance to President Robert Mugabe and have threatened to retaliate against the protesters. EPA/AARON UFUMELI.

epa05512896 Zanu PF supporters protest to show their anger over the recent protests that have rocked the capital by opposition parties in Harare, Zimbabwe, 28 August 2016. During the meeting at the party headquarters ,the supporters vowed their allegiance to President Robert Mugabe and have threatened to retaliate against the protesters. EPA/AARON UFUMELI. Credit: EPA

"There will be serious attacks on government properties and properties owned by Zanu-PF chiefs and supporters. Businesses in major cities are advised not to open on Monday and Tuesday," one warning said.

A series of images depicting a man believed to be Zimbabwean stabbing and burning his country's flag in solidarity with protests also emerged over the weekend. Reactions to the images were strong, leaving people shocked and upset.

@UnitedZim tweeted: "We, as Citizens United Zimbabwe, condemn this type of behaviour by any citizen of Zimbabwe. Flag is pride," the group said.

#ThisFlag We, as Citizens United Zimbabwe, condemn this type of behaviour by any citizen of Zimbabwe. FLAG is pride. pic.twitter.com/kFV53fqqzm — Citizens United Zim (@UnitedZim) August 27, 2016

Violent protests have hit Zimbabwe over the past few months with many standing in solidarity with #ThisFlag, a movement that has encouraged mass protests against ongoing corruption, high unemployment rates and economic problems plaguing the country.

It was spearheaded by Pastor Evan Mawarire who encouraged citizens to bring change to the country.

Last week fierce clashes in Harare between police, army personnel and locals led to looting, violence and the eventual arrest of 67 people.

However a number of Zimbabwean news agencies have since reported that following the clashes, soldiers and police have agreed to join the ongoing protests.

@Lanc_02

[email protected]

The Star

IOL on Twitter

IOL News on Facebook