http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/720013/Isis-migrant-Jaber-al-Bakr-captured-Germany-terror-attacks
130
13
SILVERHUB Isis migrant, Jaber al-Bakr, was captured by three refugees who recognised him

The three REAL Syrian refugees who overpowered him in their apartment in Leipzig on Sunday night gave him the haircut he requested before subduing him. Mohamed A., 36, is seen in this photo holding Europe's most wanted man in a headlock, his legs bound with a computer cable, blood running out of one corner of his mouth. He and two other pals rendered the man who plotted to blow up trains and airports in Germany in the name of the psychopathic Islamic State helpless after he approached them seeking sanctuary.

Police were called by the three refugees after they met al-Bakr at Leipzig main station on Sunday - hours after he had fled the city of Chemnitz where he set up a bomb laboratory in his home. More than 2lbs of highly unstable TATP explosive - made from easily obtainable ingredients but requiring intricate skill to turn into a bomb - were found by elite police who raided his home. Al-Bakr, 22, had fled several hours before they arrived.

SILVERHUB The Isis member, Europe's most wanted man, had come to the flat for a haircut to disguise himself

The night before, Friday, the German domestic intelligence agency had warned officers in Chemnitz that his plot to strike terror into the country was about to be put into action.

We could not let it happen that he would do something against Germany Mohamed A

He had been under surveillance for some time and the Office for the Protection of the Constitution said that he had to be taken down. But he escaped to be captured in the early hours of yesterday morning after what he believed were his helpers turned on him. He had contacted them on an online forum for refugees and said he needed a place to stay.

GETTY The brave refugees overpowered the wanted man and called the police

They recognised as the fugitive and took a photo of him on the sofa in the flat they shared. Then one of them cut his hair at his request. Mohamed A., one of the hero trio, said: "We went to the station and brought him from there to a friend. We ate lamb and rice with him. Then we went to another pal where he was to stay overnight.

"I worked for a year as a hairdresser and so I gave him a close cut on the head. Then afterwards my friend and I saw on Facebook news of the hunt for him." He said to them he had just come from Syria and was looking for a job. The men made further enquiries on Facebook about his identity and, when they were satisfied it was the wanted man, overpowered him and tied him up.

GETTY Elite police found hundreds of grams of explosive material at his home on Sunday