https://au.news.yahoo.com/thewest/wa/a/32839789/perths-wet-winter-could-mean-disaster-for-the-bushfire-season/
190
19
Perth’s extended wet winter has hampered prescribed burning efforts. Picture: DFES.

Perth’s extended wet winter has hampered prescribed burning efforts, leaving high fuel loads heading into what looms as a “catastrophic” bushfire season, Emergency Services Minister Joe Francis has warned.

Mr Francis said seasonal outlooks for the 2016-17 summer had every indication it would be as bad, if not worse, than WA’s last bushfire season blighted by six deaths at Esperance and Yarloop, where 181 properties were also destroyed.

“This week I attended a fairly detailed briefing by the Bureau of Meteorology,” Mr Francis said.

“What you have to look at is the culmination and combination of predicted weather as best the weather forecasters can do it, but also fuel loads and the Department of Parks and Wildlife’s reduced windows of opportunity to do prescribed burning.

“At the end of the day, to be perfectly frank, I can’t see an awful lot of things changing in those ingredients from last year, and last year we had a exceptionally catastrophic fire season.”

A seasonal outlook published by the Bushfire and Natural Hazards Co-operative Research Centre in August warned high loads of forest fuels had created “above normal fire potential” in the South West. Emergency Services Minister Joe Francis fears wet winter could lead to catastrophic bushfire season. Picture: Michael O'Brien/The West Australian. “Here we are halfway through October and it was still raining in Perth this morning,” Mr Francis said. “You can’t burn when it’s raining. What that leads to is more fuel, that’s the bottom line.”

Weather Bureau severe weather manager Brad Santos said there had been 10 wet days last month, compared with just six the previous September.

Mr Francis sounded the warning yesterday while unveiling new tracking devices to be fitted to 700 firefighting vehicles by December 1.

The automatic vehicle location system was recommended by Waroona fire investigator Euan Ferguson in June.

The system will allow incident controllers to know the exact location of vehicles on a fireground.

Department of Fire and Emergency Services head of information technology Richard Burnell said it was often difficult for controllers to keep tabs on vehicles when crews announced their locations over busy radio frequencies.