http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3762902/Terrified-Melbourne-residents-fortifying-homes-amid-spree-African-Apex-gang-home-invasions.html
1313
13
Terrified Melbourne residents are fitting their homes with secure metal doors and sophisticated alarm systems in a desperate bid to remain safe from the Apex gang.

A spree of gang-related break ins and violent carjackings in the city's south-east has seen a huge surge in business for security companies cashing in on the state of fear.

Multifit Security Doors managing director Rick Hyland told the Herald Sun that his company had seen a 30 per cent increase in demand this year alone.

Scroll down for video

Terrified Melbourne residents are fortifying their homes with secure doors (right), window grilles (left) and alarm systems in a desperate bid to remain safe from the Apex gang

A spree of gang-related break ins and violent carjackings in the city's south-east has seen a huge surge in business for security companies (pictured, two unrelated Apex gang members)

He said most of his clients were from Dandenong and Cranbourne, suburbs where the predominantly Sudanese street gang has run riot the past 12 months.

'The Apex gang has created a lot of issues,' Mr Hyland said.

'Ten years ago home invasions were unheard of but now it's a weekly thing.'

'One of the jobs we have just done was for a pet food supplies store and we had to urgently do a door for them; we have had three cars stolen from our street as well.'

A Melbourne security alarm system business told the Herald Sun that they too had experienced a huge surge in business across the past six months.

The company said that families were requesting to have sophisticated camera and alarm systems installed to keep them safe while they were sleeping.

A Melbourne security alarm system business said they had seen a huge surge in business across the last six months (stock image)

Earlier this month it was revealed that Melbourne families were fortifying their homes with barbed wires (pictured)

Earlier this month it was revealed that Melbourne families were resorting to fortifying their homes with barbed wires to protect themselves from the Apex gang.

‘I will be doing this soon. It's either barbed wire or broken glass siliconed around the top of the fence,’ one resident said in a thread about barbed wire being used on properties in the area.

‘Go the glass. They might see barbed wire and look for another way in but the glass would be easier to keep hidden until it's too late,’ replied one.

Residents in the street where a 12-year-old girl was threatened with death during a violent carjacking linked to the Apex gang last month told Daily Mail Australia they are terrified to leave their homes.

The shocking incident has left neighbours so frightened that one couple, who have lived in the street for 40 years, will not leave the house at night.

'I am a man and I am too scared to go for walks in my own street,' the man said.

'It is scary to even sleep - I am keeping a metal bar beside my bed in case they come inside.'

Multifit Security Doors managing director Rick Hyland said the Apex gang was causing issues