http://dev.thedailystar.net/country/gazipur-raids-militants-bodies-be-sent-dmch-after-autopsy-1296529
190
19
A case has been filed against eight people in connection with the joint drive in Patartek area of Gazipur, where seven militants were killed yesterday.

Khandakar Rejaul Hasan Reza, officer-in-charge of Joydebpur Police Station, filed the case this afternoon accusing Osman Sarker, a caretaker of the house, and seven other unnamed people.

However, no case was filed in connection with Harinal raid till this afternoon, our Gazipur correspondent reports quoting the police official.

Meanwhile, bodies of the nine suspected militant killed in yesterday’s raids in Patartek and Harinal areas of Gazipur will be sent to Dhaka Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) morgue after autopsies, police said.

The bodies are now at Shaheed Tajuddin Medical College morgue where the autopsies will be conducted, said Khandkar Rezaul Hasan Reza, officer-in-charge of Joydevpur Police Station.

Later, the bodies will be transported to DMCH morgue where DNA samples will be tested to establish their identities, the OC said.

In a massive anti-militancy crackdown, 11 suspected militants were killed in Gazipur and Tangail yesterday.

Seven of them were killed at Noagaon Patartek in Harinal area under Gazipur City Corporation in a drive codenamed “Operation Spate 8”.

They include Faridul Islam Akash, who allegedly had been trying to reorganise “Neo JMB” after the death of its coordinator Tamim Ahmed Chowdhury on August 27, officials say.

DMP's Counter Terrorism and Transnational Crime (CTTC) unit with its bomb disposal unit and SWAT team and Gazipur police conducted the raid from 10:00am to 3:30pm on the first floor of a two-storey building.

Two other suspected militants were killed as members of Rapid Action Battalion (Rab) conducted a separate drive from around 8:00am to 10:30am at a house in Lebu Bagan, just half a kilometre off Patartek.

Based on the tenants' information submitted to police by the houseowner, Rab is suspecting that the two were Rashed Mian and Touhidul Islam from Narsingdi. It will verify if the information is authentic.

Rab members launched another drive in Kagmara area of Tangail town yesterday, leaving two other suspected militants dead.

Based on two national ID cards found on the spot, Rab officials said the two were Atiqur Rahman, 20, son of Latifur Rahman, and Sagor Hossain, 25, son of Junaid Hossain. Both were from Charghat, Rajshahi.

Nothing could be known about the six others except that they were youths.