http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/kashmir-unrest-youth-killed-pellet-injuries/1/766488.html
190
19
Highlights 1 15-yr-old boys pellet-ridden found in Harwan area.

2 The incident triggered violence in the valley.

3 Security forces say he did not die of pellet injuries.

The death toll in ongoing unrest in Kashmir went up to 81 as the pellet-ridden body of a youth was found here in the summer capital.

The body of teenager Momin Altaf Ganai, a resident of Harwan in Srinagar, was found in the area late last night a police official said today. He said Ganai's body bore injuries caused by pellets.

The teenager was injured in clashes between protesters and security forces in Harwan yesterday, the official said, adding that he had gone missing immediately after the clashes.

More than 40 people were injured in the clashes in different areas of the Valley on Friday.

MASSIVE PROTESTS

The incident triggered massive protests in Srinagar. Although the boy had pellet injuries, sources said that the security forces asserted that they had pellets from a distance and that it was not the cause of the youth's death.

Sources said that the deceased was the son of Muhammad Shafi, a resident of New Theed Harwan in Srinagar. The teenager was reportedly a student of Greenlight School Ishber. Soon after the death locals resorted to nocturnal protests.

This is the second incident where a youth succumbed to injuries due to clashes in less than a week's time in the valley. On September 11, Javid Ahmad Dar (16) died after he suffered grievous injuries during clashes.

Dr. Farooq Jan, medical superintendent of SKIMS, said, "A bullet had torn apart his popliteal artery, which runs in close proximity to the joint capsule of the knee. We tried to repair it, but he landed into acute renal failure."

Nearly 150 people were injured in the clashes on September 11.

Also read:

Hurriyat hawks exposed: How funds flow from Pakistan to fuel Kashmir unrest

Kashmir unrest: Terrorism grossest violation of human rights, says India; rejects UNHRHC proposal

Supreme Court rejects petition against 'government funding' to separatists in Kashmir



