http://nation.com.pk/lahore/17-Sep-2016/man-shot-dead-over-wrong-parking
191
19
LAHORE - A 30-year-old motorcyclist was shot dead over the issue of wrong parking in Masti Gate police precincts yesterday.



The body was moved to the Mayo hospital’s morgue for autopsy.

The killer managed to escape from the crime scene.



Investigators identified the victim as Arif, a resident of Pani Wala Talaab.

The victim family told the police that Arif was shot dead by Ahmed Ayyaz, a local resident.

Ahmed exchanged harsh words with Arif when the later parked his motorcycle outside the house of the former.

Then, Ahmed took out a pistol and opened straight fire on the man.

As a result, Arif sustained serious bullet wounds and expired on the spot.



The police registered a murder case under section 302 of the PPC against the accused and were investigating with no arrest made yet.



Duo killed on way to court

A 45-year-old man and his 30-year-old nephew were shot dead by unknown men riding on motorcycles in Manga Mandi police precincts early yesterday.

The bodies were moved to the morgue for autopsy.



Police identified the victims as Liaqat Ali and his nephew Muhammad Iqbal.

Both the men were going to appear before a court in connection with a murder case when unidentified motorcyclists ambushed their vehicle on the main Multan Road.



Liaqat and his nephew sustained multiple bullet wounds and died on the spot.

The killers however, managed to escape from the crime scene.



According to initial investigations, the victims of yesterday’s shooting had developed enmity with Arain group of the same locality.

They had killed two men of their opponent group a couple of years ago.



The police were investigating the double-murder case with no arrest made yet.

A police officer said that they would register the case when the complainants would submit an application with the local police.

Further investigations were underway.



Boy dies as truck hits bike

A teenage boy was killed while another man wounded critically when a mini-truck smashed into their motorcycle near Bank stop in Nishtar Colony.

The driver managed to escape from the scene while the police impounded the truck.



Farooq-ul-Hassan riding on a motorcycle along with Sharif Masih was going to somewhere when a speedy truck bumped into their two-wheeler near the Bank-Stop.

As a result, Farooq died on the spot while Sharif was rushed to a hospital with multiple injuries.

The police were investigating the accident.

