http://www.whio.com/news/crime--law/hamilton-man-charged-crash-that-killed-classmate/w5RPo5IggulyYn6eXOP8pI/
193
19
Updated: Tuesday, November 01, 2016 @ 10:00 PM

By: Breaking News Staff

One woman was shot and killed and a Brookville police officer was injured in a shooting at Speedway Monday night.

Ashley Sides killed when shots were fired

Officer Henry Edds remains stable condition after being shot in the arm

Suspect identified as Conrad Davis, 27, a former Marine

Davis is currently in Montgomery County Jail

View our interactive map and timeline

THE LATEST

UPDATE @ 5 p.m.

The Bookville officers involved in the deadly shooting have been identified as Henry Edds, who was shot and wounded, and Frank Graci. Both discharged their weapons, police said.

Edds remains in stable condition and is recovering.

It’s not clear if Sides or Davis opened fire on the officers and shot Edds or who killed the woman. However, we are working to get that information from police.

UPDATE @ 2:49 p.m.

The victim has been identified as Ashley Sides, 31, of Cookeville, Tenn.

UPDATE @ 1:47 p.m.

The suspect in the Brookville shooting that left one person dead and a police officer injured played one season of college football at Cumberland University, according to that school’s sports information director.

Conrad Everett Davis, 27, was an offensive lineman who played just one season before a back injury sidelined him, according to the team’s coaching staff.

The sports information director said a coach said Davis’ father moved from Florida and worked in Cookeville, Tenn., which is about 45 minutes from Cumberland University. The university said Davis stayed in school a little while longer after his playing days ended. A law enforcement source said Davis was from Cookeville, Tenn.

We are checking to confirm whether a Facebook page that states a Conrad Davis served in the United States Marine is true.

UPDATE @ 1:10 p.m.

The Ohio State Highway Patrol Dayton Post has confirmed that their agency was the first to make contact with the Cadillac that crashed at the Wendy’s on Arlington Road.

A trooper tried to stop the Cadillac as it headed east on I-70 near the Preble Montgomery County Line. The driver did not stop and the trooper ended the pursuit because of excessive speeds, according to the patrol.

The Cadillace exited the highway at Arlington Road, but the trooper was not able to follow because of traffic. After exiting the highway, the Cadillac crashed at Wendy’s, but the trooper was not tailing the vehicle at the time, according to the patrol.

EARLIER

The officer shot remains in stable condition, Brookville Police Chief Doug Jerome said late Tuesday morning during a press conference.

Jerome said there’s no reason to believe any other suspects are at large.

The incident is under investigation, with Montgomery County Sheriff’s Office leading the investigation, Jerome said.

Jerome declined at this time to release the names of the two officers involved. He said it’s only the second officer-involved shooting in the 21 years he’s been with the Brookville Police Department.

Davis was taken into custody without incident, Jerome said.

“We want the community to know that everything is under control at this point,” he said.

Jerome said he did not know at this point if the deceased woman was a suspect, nor he did know what charges would be pursued.

Jerome said he expects to provide another update no later than 4 p.m. today.

Outside of the Montgomery County Jail this morning, the suspect identified himself as Conrad Davis, 27, of Pensacola, Fla. Authorities, however, said he’s from Cookeville, Tenn.

Davis told News Center 7’s Adam Marshall that he is a construction worker and was traveling to New York.

Davis said the woman who was shot was his significant other, and he didn’t realize she had been shot.

He said he was sorry and ashamed, and admitted that it was his gun.

Davis was taken into custody around 7:45 a.m. in Clay Twp. after authorities found him hiding in a camper at a nearby private residence. The suspect vehicle was located in a pond near the intersection of Brookville Phillipsburg Road and Access Road.

PRIOR REPORTS TO THE SHOOTING

Brookville officers were dispatched around 9:40 p.m. to assist the Ohio State Highway Patrol, which had a vehicle flee from a traffic stop, scanner traffic indicated.

The vehicle — described as a white Cadillac SUV with Tennessee plates — fled from the stop in the area of Arlington Road and Interstate 70.

Dispatchers began receiving 911 calls that a white SUV crashed into a tree-line near the Wendy’s at the corner at Upper Lewisburg Salem Road and Arlington Road. A woman was reported to dispatchers as running from the scene, and possibly trying to flag down other vehicles.

Police located the Cadillac SUV in the tree-line, and asked for the fire department to respond. The Cadillac was reported found with heavy damage, but the responding officer was unsure if anyone was injured, or still inside the vehicle.

One responding officer reported locating a woman running through an old BP lot and toward Speedway, according to the Brookville police scanner traffic.

Our crew at the scene observed the white Cadillac SUV with Tennessee plates being towed by police from a wooded area.

THE SHOOTING

As police were looking for the female, shots rang out at the Speedway on Arlington Road.

“There was two officers involved,” Jerome said. “There were shots exchanged.”

An officer then radioed for medics for two people who had been shot. A woman, who the officer described as a suspect, was reported shot, along with one police officer. A dark colored SUV was described as the vehicle where the shots came from.

“The SUV was the one that shot out the window. Just so officers know it was involved with the other car that wrecked out,” one officer reported back to dispatchers.

The injured Brookville officer was taken to Miami Valley Hospital and went into surgery early Tuesday, Jerome said.

“At this time, we don’t have a lot of details other than we have a female deceased who was part of the incident,” Jerome said. “We’re not sure exactly what has happened and who’s responsible for what at this point because we don’t know about the other vehicle and what part they may have played in this entire situation.”

Both officers involved in the shooting are on paid administrative leave, per policy, Jerome said.

THE VICTIMS

A woman was killed during the exchange of fire, Jerome said. He did not know how she was struck or who fired the fatal shot.

Her identity has not been released. The Brookville police officer was shot in the arm.

“We want to thank you for your thoughts and prayers for the officer,” Jerome said.

WHAT WE’RE WORKING ON

Our crews are working to learn more on what events led up to the shooting.

We are working to learn if the woman shot and killed was the same woman police observed running prior to the shooting.

We also are working to learn the identities of those involved, including the deceased woman and officers.