http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/pakistan-india-surgical-strike-viral-facebook-post/1/779641.html
190
19
Highlights 1 Pakistani woman writes about her affinity with India goes viral.

2 Alizay wrote the post after news about India's surgical strike made headlines.

3 The post has got mixed reactions from people in both countries.

A Pakistani woman, Alizay Jaffer, based out of Islamabad, wrote a long Facebook post on September 29 after the reports of Indian Army carrying out a surgical strike, across the LoC, on Pakistani terrorist camps made headlines.

Jaffer's post about the relationship between people living in both the countries soon went viral and now stands at more than 3,000 shares. She writes about a 'strange affinity' she has with India and begins the post saying, "It's strange, this affinity with India. I find myself getting increasingly upset at the abuse and hatred tossed from one border to another, with little rationale apart from the 69 year old chips on our shoulders."

The post made on September 29, now has more than 500 comments from Indians and Pakistanis, where some thanked Jaffer for writing it and many seething of anger and questioning the relationship between the countries.

She says India and Pakistan act like siblings who retaliate to each other's provocations and engage in blame games.

"'Look at what you're doing in Kashmir' 'Hah, look at what you're doing in Balochistan'; 'You attacked us first in Uri' 'Have you forgotten about Kargil'?; 'You started it!' 'No! You started it!'"

She also highlights how people from both the countries fail to choose love over hatred saying, "what's strange is our prolonged blindness to the immense opportunities that lie before us as a unit, and the vast desolation that lies before us as enemies."

She says that to the world, India and Pakistan act like 'siblings, constantly at loggerheads,' at one point or act like a 'divorced couple, sharing space, constantly bickering over who lost out in the settlement, unable to finally come to terms with the fact that we are no longer together.'

Read the full Facebook post here:





Here are some of the responses she got:



Alizay, confused with the responses she got for her post, has now written another post and has also set up a blog 'to limit my Facebook profile to insults from friends and family only'. You can check out her blog here.