http://www.themalaymailonline.com/malaysia/article/man-mistaken-for-monkey-shot-in-the-arm
195
19
Man mistaken for monkey shot in the arm

Lucus rests after receiving treatment at the Raja Permaisuri Bainun Hospital yesterday. — Picture by Farhan Najib IPOH, Aug 13 — Loud sounds are something people at Kampung Chepor Dalam are accustomed to as villagers there usually set off firecrackers to chase away wild animals, which are pests to their fruit orchards, while licensed gun owners use their weapons.

So when pensioner Lucus Asirvatham heard a loud bang on Thursday afternoon, little did he suspect that it was a gunshot.

Only when he felt a piercing pain on his right arm did he realise he had been shot.

Describing the incident as “unlucky”, the 63-year-old said he believes the shot fired was intended to chase away monkeys.

“I was working on my orchard when the incident happened. I was on a ladder and wrapping jackfruits with newspapers,” he said when met at the Raja Permaisuri Bainun Hospital where he was recuperating.

“Suddenly, I heard a loud sound and fell to the ground. Then, I realised I got shot and my arm had been struck by a bullet.

“I screamed for help and three people came to my aid. They took me to the hospital.”

The incident took place at about 1.45pm, when a retired senior police officer who was resting outside his brother-in-law’s house in the village, fired shot from a pistol at a rambutan tree which was about 50m away.

District police chief ACP Sum Chang Keong said the pensioner opened fire after noticing movement oi the trees and believed monkeys were in the vicinity.

Among the three people who came to assist was the retired police officer.

“He apologised to me and said that he thought he saw a monkey disturbing his rambutan tree.

“I have no grudges on him. He didn’t intend to shoot me and only fired the shot thinking it was a monkey. It was fated for me to be at that place at that time.”

Lucus, who has been the owner of an orchard in the area for the past 30 years, admitted the area was infested with monkeys.

“The orchard belongs to 20 people, and we have divided it equally. We don’t have fences as we know our boundaries.

“Every time I enter the orchard, I will hit my machete with a metal pot to make noises to ward off the monkeys and also tell the neighbours that I’m in the area.

“However, since the man (the pensioner who fired the gun) is new to the place, he didn’t realise I was at the orchard,” he said.

Sharin Shukor, 64, who is the neighbour of the man who fired the shot, said he used to hear loud bangs at his village as people would use firecrackers to chase off monkeys.

“There are lots of monkeys in the area. There were also people who come to hunt wild boars at this village.

“I heard a loud noise around the time the incident happened, but I didn’t know whether the sound was from a firecracker or a gunshot,” he said.

Sharin who has been staying at the village for the past three years, said he only realised there had been a shooting incident after police came to the area to investigate.

Malay Mail Afternoon E-Paper yesterday reported that a former police officer mistook the man for a monkey on a tree and shot him in the arm.