http://www.business-standard.com/article/pti-stories/5-killed-in-rain-related-incidents-in-up-ganga-water-level-116081301097_1.html
190
19
5 killed in rain-related incidents in UP, Ganga water level

Five people were killed in rain-related incidents in and a person was washed away by the overflowing Ujjad river in Rajasthan, even as the water level of the in rose due to heavy downpour in the last few days.



In Uttar Pradesh, five persons were killed in rain-related incidents as light to moderate rainfall and thundershowers occurred at many places in eastern and western parts of the state since yesterday.



While a mother-daughter duo was killed in their sleep in Sonbhadra when their mud house collapsed due to heavy rains, three persons, including a couple, died in Jaunpur district, police said.



It was a pleasant day in with the mercury settling at normal levels and it drizzled in some areas.



"The maximum and minimum temperatures were recorded at 33.7 and 25.5 degrees Celsius respectively, both normal for this time of the year," a official said.



While the city received 29.88 mm rainfall till this morning, the recording till the evening was 0.2 mm.



In Rajasthan's Kota district, a 30-year-old man is feared dead as he was swept away by strong currents of the overflowing Ujjad river when he was crossing a overpass on it, police said.



In Baran district, a couple and three other persons are reportedly stranded at two places due to the overflowing Barni river, they said.



Light to heavy rains lashed parts of the state, with Atru in Baran receiving 9 cm rains followed by 8 cm in Alwar. Heavy rains occurred at isolated areas of Jaipur and Kota divisions.



The water level of in rose following heavy downpour in the last few days, even as the Disaster Management Department said no district in the state is presently in the grip of floods and no relief camps are functioning.



The is flowing above danger mark at Gandhi Ghat and Hathidah in Patna district, Kahalgaon in Bhagalpur district, while Ghaghra river remained at spate in Siwan district's Gangpur-Siswan area. Koshi river's water level was above red mark at Baltara in Khagaria district.



Light to moderate rainfall occurred at many places in the state, while heavy rainfall was witnessed at one or two places in the north-eastern parts of the state since yesterday.



According to the office, Bhagalpur received the highest rainfall of 16.6 mm followed by 2.4 mm in Purnea. Patna and Gaya received 1.2 mm and 0.4 mm rains respectively since yesterday.



In Punjab and Haryana, maximum temperatures hovered around normal level even as a few places received rains. Amritsar in Punjab recorded a high of 35.5 degrees Celsius, while Karnal in Haryana received 22 mm rainfall.



In West Bengal, the capital recorded maximum temperature of 34.8 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal, in absence of any rainfall.

(This story has not been edited by Business Standard staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)

Press Trust of India