http://www.express.co.uk/life-style/life/714116/Reaper-drone-crews-unsung-heroes-Iraq-RAF
190
19
GETTY RAF Reaper drone s an unmanned aerial vehicle capable of remote controlled or autonomous flights

The kill mission had already taken seven hours but now, at the last moment, there was frenzy in the British control room from which the Reaper drone was being flown. Pulses racing, the aircrew had just seconds to decide whether they could safely carry out their mission without harming the Iraqi villager. The strike was aborted, the terrorists left free to fight another day. The dramatic new Ministry of Defence footage, shown to the Sunday Express and available to you online at express.co.uk, emerges in a week where the role of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles has once again come under the spotlight.

While attacks, apparently by Russian or Syrian forces, on aid convoys last weekend garnered most of the headlines, two days earlier 62 Syrian soldiers had apparently been killed near the Deir al-Zor military airport. The attack, the first serious crack in the fragile week-long US/Russia-brokered ceasefire, appeared to be a US-led coalition air strike that went tragically wrong. Commanders believed the troops were IS insurgents but last night an investigation was still trying to confirm who they were. That incident is known to have involved a Reaper operated by one of the RAF’s two UAV squadrons, 13sq based at RAF Waddington, Lincoln, and 39sq based at Creech US Air Force Base in Nevada. It left senior RAF Waddington commander Air Commodore Dean Andrew “incredulous”.

SWNS Air Commodore Dean Andrew explains Reaper safeguards to Marco

He said: “We are in a coalition where these things rarely happen. Reaper crews are the unsung heroes whose work goes unnoticed because they do it day in, day out.”

When Reaper crews close that cabin door, it is as if they are inside the aircraft, flying it Air Commodore Andrew

The decision to release a series of combat videos was not the transparent PR exercise it may appear. In fact, it was made before the events of last weekend and stands as testimony to the level of confidence held by senior commanders in the ability and professionalism of their crews. And the events surrounding the aborted strike, in June, show why. It was supposed to be straightforward. A pick-up truck carrying three armed IS insurgents had been spotted near a village in the plains south of Mosul. Intelligence assets on the ground knew they had already been involved in attacks against Iraqi troops. The RAF has 10 Reapers but operational decisions are made at the Combined Air Operations Centre at Al Udeid in Qatar. Presumably it did not take coalition commanders long to sanction a kill mission. An invisible line runs through RAF Waddington. Once a secure set of double doors is passed, Reaper crews are considered to be “in Iraq”. The process is more than physical, it is a mental transition. Air Commodore Andrew rejected claims that Reaper crews are “detached” as they can go home at night.

GETTY The control station for the plane to allow remote controlled missions

179 British soldiers who died during the Iraq War Wed, July 6, 2016 179 UK servicemen and women died during the campaign that followed the invasion of Iraq on 20 March 2003. Play slideshow PA 1 of 167 UK military deaths in Iraq

“I am in charge of five types of aircraft, of which Reaper is just one. If you accuse Reaper crews of playing video games, you may as well level that against the other aircrews. When Reaper crews close that cabin door, it is as if they are inside the aircraft, flying it.” Sitting in one of three metal cabins, dubbed “boxes”, the three-man crew, a pilot, the only one to wear RAF wings, sensor operator and Mission Intelligence Co-ordinator (MIC), were ready. War is seldom straightforward, however, even when fought by remote control from an air base 2,500 miles away. The Reaper’s 65ft wingspan is twice that of the Eurofighter Typhoon fighter jet. One of its key assets is that it can fly continuously for 16 hours, requiring two crews to work in shifts. The RAF calls this “persistence”. Crews work nine-hour shifts, of which five are spent flying.

The boxes’ compact size, just 20ft by 6ft, is a deliberate attempt to recreate the feeling of being inside an aircraft. They teem with computer equipment and monitors that allow the reading of a car licence plate in HD clarity from 30,000ft (six miles), well out of range of ground-to-air missile systems. The temperature is set to a comfortable 20 degrees. Crucially, the Reaper can carry four precision Hellfire missiles and two mighty 500lb GBU-12 laser guided bombs. The choice of ordinance is made at senior level, in Qatar. On that morning in June, it was Hellfire. The crew had been on shift for 90 minutes, having taken over control of the Reaper from 39sq, when they acquired the target. Talk is kept to a minimum as each crew member focuses on the task at hand. Codewords are used to convey precise messages with the minimum of chatter.

SWNS Some accuse pilots as 'not being connected' and can switch off as its 'like a video game'

Once approval to strike is given and verified by a senior British officer in Qatar, it falls on the pilot to find the first suitable opportunity. They observed the vehicle, identifying its movement patterns as it made its way out of the village and on to the plains. “We knew the clock was ticking,” said Squadron Leader Steve, who oversaw the mission as the obligatory safety observer. “We had to strike before the vehicle made it to another village.” With fewer than 30 seconds to impact, signs looked good. A brief countdown of “3, 2, 1”, to allow anyone a last-second intervention, was followed by a one-word order: “Rifle”. The captain squeezed the green trigger and the Hellfire was released. But then something unexpected happened: the vehicle did a U-turn and headed back to the village, just 200m away. As the crew absorbed this, a bigger problem emerged. “Pax in from the right,” said the MIC.

GETTY One of its key assets is that it can fly continuously for 16 hours