http://www.philstar.com/cebu-news/2016/10/13/1633142/shrine-settlers-want-relocation
190
19
Mayor says they are not the priority

CEBU, Philippines - With resumption of the demolition of their homes yesterday, informal settlers at the Osmeña Shrine in Barangay Kalunasan, Cebu City are appealing for Mayor Tomas Osmeña to provide a relocation site for them.

The mayor, however, said they are not the city’s priority since they are “new squatters.”

“It is not good public policy to reward new squatters with relocation or half of Bohol might move into Fuente Osmeña,” he said in a text message to The FREEMAN yesterday.

The mayor ordered the clearing or demolition of “illegally constructed” houses in the area last Monday but clearing was halted after Councilor Pastor Alcover, Jr. arrived and intervened for the residents.

Randy Sabucido, vice president of the residents’ organization People’s Initiative Association, said the residents need a place to live.

“Mohangyo lang gyud mi nimo Mayor Tom nga ibutang pud mi og lugar. Dili kay mora mi’g iro. Kon dili gyud na nimo ihatag lugara, bisa’g tagaan mi nimo og relocation site. Mao ra gyud na among gipangayo — makapuyo og tarong lang gyud. Tabangan lang unta mi nga mahiluna ra mi,” he told reporters.

Freeman ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch:

Sabucido and other residents went to the office of Vice Mayor Edgardo Labella yesterday to seek assistance.

He said the residents constructed their houses in the area after allegedly being told by Osmeña before the elections that they would be allowed to stay there. Osmeña, though, has been denying the said claim.

Sabucido said they would consult to their lawyer on what steps to take to address the “illegal” demolition of their homes since city Prevention Restoration Order Beautification Enhancement team leader Abel Diloy did not present any court order authorizing the removal of their homes.

“Dili man ang siyudad tag-iya aning yutaa. Walay ikapakita nga mga dokumento para i-demolish among mga balay,” he said on the 72-hour notice and clearing order the mayor issued.

Councilor Jose Daluz, who attended the meeting with the residents at Labella’s office, said the city does not own the property.

He said there was a deed of donation from the city to the Evangelical Coalition of Cebu Inc. in 2010.

He recalled that there was even a resolution passed by the City Council, of which he was also a member, authorizing Osmeña, when he was mayor during a previous term, to sign the deed of donation so that members of the group could start work on a common cemetery at the 4.2-hectare property.

Daluz, though, said that the residents could not insist that they could stay in the area since they are not owners of the property.

“Sakto ang siyudad nga dili gyud papuy-an ang lugar, but ang atong gi-question is the manner on how it (demolition) was done ba,” he said.

Alcover, on the other hand, said he would study the possibility of having the deed of donation rescinded since the purpose of the donation, which is to establish a cemetery, was not complied with by the donee. (FREEMAN)