http://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-3743071/Made-Chelsea-s-Stephanie-Pratt-wows-boho-semi-sheer-dress-snaps-selfies-filming-new-dating-show.html
190
19
She was spotted getting cosy with TOWIE's Joey Essex as they shot scenes for new show Celebs Go Dating last week.

But despite flying solo this time around, Stephanie Pratt ensured all eyes remained on her as she dazzled in a gorgeous boho-style maxi dress while filming on London's King's Road on Tuesday.

The Made In Chelsea star, 30, flashed a glimpse of leg in the semi-sheer gown, which was embroidered with pretty pink flowers, as she larked around with a friend.

Scroll down for video

Boho beauty: Stephanie Pratt, 30, flashed her legs in an embroidered maxi dress as she filmed new show Celebs Go Dating on London's King's Road on Tuesday

The dress was held up by two black spaghetti straps, leaving the reality TV personality's bronzed and toned upper half on show as she enjoyed the sunny London weather.

Adding a more casual touch to feminine frock, Stephanie completed her outfit with some sporty black Converse pumps.

The former The Hills star injected a touch of a bling to her look with gold jewellery and beaded bracelets, while sheltering her eyes from the summer sunshine with dark shades.

Stephanie wore her long blonde locks loosely tousled around her shoulders and accentuated her pretty features with natural make-up.

Say cheese! The Made In Chelsea star looked relaxed as she filmed the new E4 reality show, cuddling up to a friend to document their day through a few cheeky selfies

Stephanie look chic and carefree in the outfit, having revealed this week that it is these flowing boho styles that she much prefers.

Talking to New! magazine about her fashion choices, she admitted: 'The one thing I never am is sexy. I'd say I'm fresh.'

'I can never do those sexy outfits because they're not for my body type and I would feel uncomfortable.'

The star, who rose to fame on MTV's LA-based series The Hills, looked relaxed as she filmed for the new E4 reality show, cuddling up to a friend to document their day through a few cheeky selfies.

BFFs reunited: The former The Hills star took to Instagram to post one of the selfies, suggesting her friend may feature on the upcoming celebrity dating series

Steph ensured the selfies did not go to waste either, uploading one to Instagram for fans.

Expressing her excitement at her gal pal joining her for filming, Stephanie wrote: 'Could not be happier after 2 years of annoying her, I finally got my best friend & @meme.london partner to film with me!! #celebsgodating #comingsoon'

The sighting comes just days after Stephanie was seen filming for the show with fellow reality star Joey Essex.

Speculation has been rife that the pair got close romantically during the new series, after they were seen leaving parties together following filming.

Fun fashion: Adding a more casual touch to feminine frock, Stephanie completed her outfit with some sporty black Converse pumps

However Joey confirmed that their relationship was strictly for work purposes, explaining: 'We're just friends... She's a sort and a good looking girl. She's just on the same show as me. All just friends.'

The new show Celebs Go Dating sees Stephanie, Joey, and other celebrities dating 'normal' members of the public on camera.

The show is also set to star Charlotte Crosby and Tyger Drew-Honey, who rose to fame on BBC comedy Outnumbered.

The star may have set her hopes high for the show's outcome, having been largely single since splitting from MIC co-star Josh Shepherd in August 2015.