http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/loyal-girlfriend-former-soldier-paralysed-8640045
190
19
The devastated girlfriend of a former soldier injured in a motorbike accident in Thailand has vowed not to leave his side until he returns home.

Adam Hobbs suffered serious injuries in the motorbike accident in Koh Samui last week, and has girlfriend Samantha Theobald by his side in hospital.

A fundraising campaign was set up following the incident that left Adam, from Cardiff, unable to breathe and with locked-in syndrome, meaning complete paralysis of nearly all voluntary muscles.

Adam can now only respond using his eyes.

Wales News Adam Hobbs has girlfriend Samantha Theobald by his side in hospital

Samantha, 31, is now desperate to get father-of-one Adam, a former Welsh Guard who served in Iraq, back to the UK.

She told Wales Online: “I am devastated and completely heartbroken. I cannot even describe my feelings about it.

“We had an amazing time together before the accident. I love his soul. I love everything about him. He’s just the most amazing man I have met in my entire life. I struggle to put it into words.”

Wales News The couple met on June 30 after they were both travelling alone

Getty The Welshman was on Koh Samui at the time

The couple met on June 30 after they were both travelling alone. Samantha said: “I knew I loved him from day one. It sounds crazy and people will think what they want to think, but I knew it straight away.”

She has been by his side every hour she has been able to and said she has barely slept since the accident on August 8.

Wales News A brave army veteran is fighting for his life after a horror motorbike crash in Thailand which left him in a coma

She said: “I want him home and I’m not leaving his side.

“I’m not giving up and neither is he - he’s a fighter. Every time I see him, he gets a little bit more strength.

“We don’t know what’s going to happen but we need help him keep the strength and get him back home.”

Adam’s mother Donna has now flown out to Thailand to help, and they want Adam, 28, to be moved to a hospital in Bangkok, where better treatment is available.

The fundraising campaign set up in the wake of the crash asked members of the public for £10,000 to help Adam, whose health insurance had run out.

But the hospital have told them it will not move him unless they are paid £25,000 up front meaning the initial target of £10,000 has had to be raised.

Adam’s friends and family have already raised more than £7,500 and Samantha said while they were extremely grateful for the help received so far, further funds were needed.

Samantha, from London, said: “We are overwhelmed at everything that has been raised so far, even from people who don’t even know us. There are no words to describe the thanks, and especially to my closest friends back home.

“I can’t wait to tell him properly exactly how much he’s loved.”

Samantha said they had seen an improvement in Adam and that he held her hand when she asked him to.

She said “it has given me a bit of hope”.

Sonia Davis, a friend of Samantha who is helping with the fundraising efforts and is planning to travel to Thailand to help, said the £25,000 still wasn’t as much as might be needed.

She said: “The hospital bill is actually £29,000, so we do need people to still be aware that the money is needed. We are actually asking for less than is needed, and the final bill could be in excess of £40,000 to get him home.”

You can donate here or visit the Bring Adam Home Facebook page.