http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/home/science/Dr-Death-When-life-savers-turned-life-takers/articleshow/53726185.cms
190
19
NEW DELHI: A doctor in Maharashtra who was arrested last week in connection with the murder of an anganwadi worker, later confessed to killing five more people including four women between 2003 and 2016, and burying them in his farmhouse. The 42-year-old Dr Santosh Pol, dubbed as 'Dr Death', is in police custody till August 19.Here are some life-savers from across the globe whose names have gone down in history for becoming life-takers:Dr Harold Shipman was found responsible for at least 218 deaths by a British court. He was sentenced to life imprisonment and is perhaps the only British doctor to be successfully prosecuted for murdering his patients. He hanged himself at the age of 57.It was noticed that many of his patients died if they were left alone in a room with him. His pattern of murdering patients surfaced after he committed a grave mistake in one of his cases. After killing one of his patients, he forged her will and stated a large sum of money against his own name. The daughter of the deceased was suspicious of this sudden development and this initiated an investigation. The police raided his residence and found the typewriter which was used to rewrite the will. After his arrest, it was found that all his patients had died of a drug overdose, a lethal pattern followed by him for attaining their assets. Several other theories have been put forward as to why he killed his patients. "Some suggest that he simply could not resist playing God, proving that he could take life as well as save it," says The Guardian.Dr Jayant Patel, an India-born American surgeon, is known for his manslaughters and medical negligence. He was tried in Australia but was acquitted of all charges, not once but twice. There were about 87 deaths among the 1,202 patients he treated between year 2003 and 2005.Reports suggest that he used to perform unneccesary medical surgeries, operate on other doctors' patients and cause them bodily harm. The nurses were so alarmed by his conduct that they hid patients from him, reports The Independent.Dorothea Waddingham ran a nursing home in Nottingham. Though not a registered nurse, she started a nursing home at her residence and started taking in elderly patients for giving them medical assistance.Two of these patients were an elderly woman and her young daughter. The woman passed away under suspicious circumstances and soon after, her daughter died too. Also, there were changes in her will which included the woman's willingness to be cremated after her death, reports the Nottingham Post. Had she been cremated, this bizarre case would never have unfolded. However, the cremation required the permission of two doctors. While one immediately gave Dorothea the nod, the other doctor was suspicious about the sudden death of the mother-daughter duo and sent the bodies for an autopsy. The examination revealed that there was excessive amount of morphine in the blood of the deceased. She was convicted of murder and fraud and later hanged to death.Dr Josef Mengele, a Nazi doctor during the second world war was known as the "Angel of Death". He would stand in a white coat, with his arms outstretched, waiting for prisoners outside the Nazi concentration camps, thus receiving the nickname. He used to check these prisoners for physical fitness and those who were unfit were then sent to the gas chambers. The others were sent for bonded labour.He is also known for his notorious and harsh experiments on children, especially twins. He used to perform surgeries on children without using anaesthesia and most of them died on the operating table due to unbearable pain and torture. He operated on them for his own whims and fancies, sometimes removing their organs, sewing twins together, injecting dyes into eyeballs to change eye colour. A survivor told The International Business Times that about 1,500 pairs of twins were used in Mengele's experiments, of which only about 280 individuals survived until the liberation of Auschwitz on 27 January 1945.A suspected serial killer, John perhaps murdered over 160 of his patients. Of these, 132 had rewritten their wills and included himself in it. However, in 1957, he was acquitted of murder charges. Adams then resumed his medicine practice until his death. This case was responsible for many important changes to the English legal system.Newspapers were packed with stories of how he targeted elderly female patients; how he changed their wills in his favour, cut them off from their families and then killed them with lethal injections of morphine and heroin, a BBC report on the doctor says.Adams was found guilty of prescription fraud, lying on cremation forms, obstructing a police search and failing to keep a dangerous drugs register. He was removed from the Medical Register in 1957 and reinstated in 1961 after two failed applications.