http://nation.com.pk/islamabad/01-Sep-2016/ayyan-wants-her-statement-part-of-case-record
193
19
rawalpindi - Model girl Ayyan Ali yesterday moved an application to Civil Judge/Magistrate Gulfam Latif Butt, stating that police officials are not ready to include her written statement in the record of Customs Inspector Chaudhry Ejaz Mehmood murder case.



The court accepted her application and ordered her and the investigation officer of the murder case to appear before the court today (Thursday).



Ayyan in her application claimed that she dispatched her written statement to Waris Khan police station officials in June but the police did not entertain her statement and obtained warrants for her arrest from a court of law.



“The investigators are not ready to record her statement and the court needs to record her statement in the courtroom,” she urged.



She said that she was in Adiala jail on June 2, 2015 when Inspector Chaudhry Ejaz was murdered.

She noted that she did not know Inspector Ejaz and had no link whatsoever with his murder.



She said that the customs officials investigating the currency smuggling case against her submitted their first investigation report on April 24, 2015 and second report on May 27, 2015.

She added that in both investigation reports Inspector Ejaz was not mentioned as a prosecution witness against her.



She claimed that she never asked Inspector Ejaz to help her in the case of currency smuggling.

She said that the currency recovered from her on March 14, 2015 was deposited in the National Bank as case property and there was no question that Inspector Ejaz was custodian of the currency as claimed by his wife Saima Bibi.



The model asked that police to drop the charges against her as the wife of the deceased customs inspector implicated her in the case many months after the killing.



Meanwhile, Saima Bibi, widow of Inspector Ejaz, had moved an application with federal interior ministry saying that a joint investigation team needed to be formed for fair probe in the murder case of her husband.



In a separate development, a special court of Customs, Excise and Taxation postponed hearing in the currency smuggling case against Ayyan till September 20.



The court is hearing three applications filed by the model for acquittal, permanent exemption from personal appearances, and against Customs investigators for including name of deceased Inspector Ejaz in the list of prosecution witnesses at a later stage.



The proceeding of the case started late after Ayyan arrived late in the court for hearing.

Her lawyer informed the court that his client’s flight was delayed due to which she could not reach for the case hearing on time.



It should be noted that the court, hearing the currency smuggling case against the model, had ordered concerned authorities to produce her at all costs.

The court adjourned hearing of the case till 20th September.



In an informal talk with the media after the court proceedings, Ayyan Ali denied of any link of her in the murder of Customs Inspector Ejaz Mehmood.

She said that she was in prison when the incident took place.

“I have sent my written statement over the incident to police via court,” Ali said.



Customs Inspector Ejaz Mehmood was shot dead by unknown assailants at his home in June last year.



Ayyan was arrested by Airport Security Force at Benazir International Airport on March 14, last year after more than $500,000 were found stashed in her luggage.



The model was scheduled to board a Dubai-bound flight before she was apprehended by the authorities.

Subsequently, Ayyan was sent to Adiala Jail on charges of money laundering and she spent several months in jail.



Her name was included and excluded several times in the Exit Control List (ECL).

The court had issued several orders for allowing her to exit the country.

However, the investigative authorities have not allowed her to leave the country citing different reasons.

