https://www.theguardian.com/world/2016/oct/28/syria-aid-relief-effort-key-questions-guardian-briefing
190
19
With the situation in Syria desperate and with so much riding on the relief effort to compensate for the lack of a political settlement, the pressure on aid agencies, particularly the UN, is immense.

UN hires Assad's friends and relatives for Syria relief operation Read more

While the bravery of workers on the frontline is not in doubt, there have been bitter arguments about a number of fundamental issues, raising the prospect that the situation is worse than it seems. Here are some of the key questions.

How many people need aid?

There is an enormous discrepancy in numbers, particularly the figures relating to “besieged” areas.



For instance, the UN began referring to rebel-held eastern Aleppo as besieged in the past few weeks – three months after the area last received a significant supply of humanitarian aid.



As with other aid organisations, the UN uses a formula to identify places under siege. It asks three questions:

Is the area surrounded by armed actors?

Can humanitarian assistance regularly enter?

Can civilians, the sick and wounded enter and exit?

Applying this criteria, the UN estimates that 586,200 people were living in 17 besieged areas in Syria in September. It believes that a total of 4.88 million were living in “hard to reach” locations.

But these numbers are disputed by other organisations, which use similar formulas and get much higher numbers.

Advocacy group Siege Watch estimates that 996,975 people are living in 39 besieged areas, not including 275,000 under siege in Aleppo.



The group says the extra 21 areas are surrounded by government forces. It believes that another 1.4 million people are at risk of siege.

Those figures are supported by another well-established international NGO working in Syria, which spoke to the Guardian but does not want to be named.



According to this organisation, there are between 1.2 million and 1.3 million people under siege, which increases to 1.5 million if Aleppo is included.



Separately, Médecins San Frontières estimates that 1.5 million are living in besieged areas.

A source told the Guardian that UN hubs outside Damascus had privately agreed with the higher counts, but felt unable to challenge the official UN figures, which are set by the organisation in the Syrian capital.

The UN said: “[We] are aware that different aid groups use different definitions and have access to different data sources. Differences of opinion do occur.”

Facebook Twitter Pinterest A Syrian Arab Red Crescent aid convoy arrives in Ghouta. Not all areas needing relief are reached. Photograph: Abdulmonam Eassa/Barcroft Images

How many aid convoys arrive?

Each month, the UN places requests with the Syrian government to send aid convoys to besieged and hard-to-reach areas.



In September, which included a ceasefire period, requests were made for 33 locations. All were accepted, but only six convoys made it to their destinations.



This is not untypical; most months, an initial “note verbale” (third-person note) grants permission for almost all the requested locations, but this is then denied further down the line.



The initial approval, therefore, does not reflect how much aid is delivered: usually about 20-33% of locations are reached.

But when the UN gives monthly updates to the security council, it routinely leads with figures relating to convoy approvals.



In July, for instance, the UN said of the “35 locations, 34 have been approved for access, representing approximately 75% of total beneficiaries targeted”.



Later, the organisation concedes that only nine locations were reached.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest A UN flag lies next to a destroyed aid convoy outside Aleppo. Cross-line deliveries can carry risks. Photograph: ImagesLive/Rex/Shutterstock

Cross-line or cross-border aid?

There are two broad ways of delivering supplies into affected areas: either from other countries, mainly Turkey, via “cross-border” convoys, or from within Syria, which may take deliveries from government-held to rebel-held areas, referred to as “cross-line” convoys.

Disputes continue within the UN, and between the UN and other international NGOs, about which should be used and when.



Many aid workers who spoke to the Guardian said the UN’s preference for cross-line convoys from Damascus did not always make sense.



They cited the convoy hit by an airstrike last month in rural Aleppo, killing six aid workers. This travelled from Damascus through 23 checkpoints and across frontlines to reach an area 22 miles (35km) from the Turkish border.



Similarly, UN documents seen by the Guardian said the UN favoured cross-line aid deliveries from government-held western Aleppo to rebel-held eastern Aleppo, because this was the “preference of the government of Syria”.

The Syrian regime also makes requests of the UN. In May, the president, Bashar al-Assad, asked for deliveries to Palmyra, al-Qaryatayn, Bloudan and Houla.

In August, Syrian authorities asked the UN to deliver assistance to 41 locations outside the proposed plans. None of them were thought to be in greatest need or under siege.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest An aid convoy prepares to depart for Madaya and Zabadani. Some convoys have had items removed. Photograph: Louai Beshara/AFP/Getty Images

What supplies make it through?

According to UN documents leaked to the Guardian, of the 41 inter-agency convoys that delivered supplies between January and mid-July, 11 got through without items being removed.



On five occasions, the amount stripped out was equal to or significantly more than the amount allowed, and another five convoys had more than 20% of their total delivery removed.



The UN said more than 50 tonnes, representing 20% of the total, were removed from January to September this year, mostly medical equipment or medicines.



Detailed breakdowns of the items taken out of convoys show that the Syrian government routinely diminishes supplies to rebel-held areas.



Some items are rejected during the permissions stage, but others are removed or blocked when aid workers load the convoys for departure.



In one recent case, an aid organisation took a stand against this. The International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) withdrew its participation in a convoy to Moadamiya on 19 September after only 10% of proposed supplies were allowed through. The Syrian government also removed 11.5 tonnes from World Health Organisation (WHO) medical supplies.

Syrian families flee besieged Moadamiyah – in pictures Read more

Items of food in the Moadamiya convoy were destroyed by Syrian soldiers at a checkpoint on the way into the area and rejected. A subsequent convoy reached the area with new supplies.



Convoys to Madaya and Zabadani in September had half their medical supplies, 1.5 tonnes, removed.



As a result, 64% of WHO health supplies in Syria have gone to government-held areas since January.



This number is backed up by UN reporting, which suggests that as many as 3 million of the 4.3 million people reached with aid supplies in Syria each month are in government areas.



Due to the lack of medical supplies in besieged areas, it is often necessary to move patients across conflict lines.



But permission is routinely delayed or denied. Patients and family members have to be cleared by Syrian security services before being given permission.



Stephen O’Brien, the UN undersecretary general for humanitarian affairs and emergency relief, said medical evacuations from eastern Aleppo during the recent pause were scuppered by both parties, including rebels.

“Objections by two non-state armed opposition groups, namely Ahrar al-Sham and Nour al-din al-Zenki, scuppered these plans,” he said.

“The United Nations made every effort to get assurances from all parties, only for the parties to then fail to agree on each other’s conditions about how evacuations should proceed. And then we couldn’t prevail upon the Syrian and Russian authorities to extend their ‘pause’.”

Who has been reached?

UN convoys to besieged areas are often given limited time to unload; permission can be granted at the last minute and they must then depart in time to return to Damascus safely.



Because of time constraints, the UN often has to leave supplies in the hands of other groups, including ones that are not well known.

Due to government controls on the way the UN can work in its areas, the same occurs with projects there, raising the question of whether supplies get through.

Although the UN office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs (OCHA) says it has reached 4.3 million people in Syria this year, one humanitarian worker believes that these numbers are misleading.

“When they say we have reached X amount of people, it’s not true. It’s not true that they can say they have reached that amount of people when they go with their trucks ... and drop them there hoping they are going to somehow be delivered to the target individuals in the besieged areas,” they said.



One former UN employee in Damascus said field visits were nearly impossible and oversight of the projects funded by the UN was minimal as a result.



A senior humanitarian worker in Syria said there was a particular problem with the Syrian Arab Red Crescent, which has been criticised for its apparent closeness to the Syrian government.



“If you keep saying SARC is not politically biased and you’re reaching the majority of those in besieged areas, that is a lie,” they said. Cross-border aid partners said there needs to be more rigorous assessments on the ground.

Fadi Al-Dairi, the founder of Hand in Hand for Syria, said: “When we deliver aid in the opposition areas, we do a ‘needs assessment’. We send in someone to check on the needs and then again to ensure the people received the aid. We are not seeing the same from the aid being distributed from the GoS [government] side.”

Advocacy group Siege Watch recently recommended that the UN monitor its aid programmes using independent third parties to ensure that supplies are being received by those most in need.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest The aftermath of an airstrike on a hospital in Aleppo. Medical facilities have been hit by bombing. Photograph: Anadolu Agency/Getty Images

How many aid facilities have been attacked?

The aid convoy attack last month was by no means the first. According to the NGO Physicians for Human Rights, at least 705 medical workers had been killed in Syria by March. This included 346 deliberate or indiscriminate attacks on 246 medical facilities.

MSF said 23 Syrian health staff they were supporting were killed and 58 wounded in 2015. Sixty-three hospitals and clinics backed by MSF were bombed or shelled on 94 separate occasions in 2015, 12 of which were completely destroyed.

The Syrian government and its allies have been responsible for more than 90% of recorded hospital attacks and more than 95% of medical personnel killings.



That number has increased exponentially in recent months, according to UN reports; in July, 44 hospitals or health facilities were targeted or attacked. There were 55 attacks against medical facilities in August.



SARC has had 53 staff and volunteers killed during the conflict.

One NGO working in Syria told the Guardian about 40 of its aid trucks have been hit by airstrikes in Syria. The number has multiplied by 10 since Russia began its aerial bombing campaign a year ago.

All intentional attacks on hospitals and humanitarian workers are in contravention of international law.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Stephen O’Brien, the UN undersecretary general for humanitarian affairs, has criticised the failure to solve the conflict. Photograph: Magali Girardin/EPA

Is there an accountability problem?

In a speech to the UN security council this week, O’Brien rebuked the parties in the conflict and the council for failing to find solutions to the conflict in Syria.

He named and shamed those who have impeded humanitarian access or assistance in recent weeks. But this is a new strategy.

Until now, the UN has not been in the habit of apportioning blame for violations, saying it has to work with all sides in the conflict to remain impartial.

One senior UN official told the Guardian: “Sometimes we feel that the ire of many understandably outraged people is directed at the UN instead of those parties that are inhibiting the access, or sponsoring or committing the atrocities against civilians.



“We really want it to be clear that working with the system to try to reach locations from within Syria is unbelievably challenging. And we don’t want anyone to think we are complicit with the hurdles being thrown up. We are not complicit.”



But NGOs working in the area believe that the UN should behave more robustly.



Relief organisation UOSSM said: “Attacks on aid workers have skyrocketed, both in frequency and intensity. Real actions must be taken to protect aid workers and hold those responsible accountable. Many aid workers have stopped their work because they are being deliberately targeted.”

According to the WHO website, before February it made no obvious mention of attacks on health workers. The organisation has increased its condemnation of attacks in recent months, but never apportioned blame, despite evidence that such incidents are largely the work of the Syrian airforce and Russia.

The reluctance to use this information has angered doctors working in high-risk areas.

A former manager of a UN hub in Damascus told the Guardian that raising concerns about government actions was not allowed.



Failure to highlight issues of accountability relies heavily on an argument of impartiality and neutrality. O’Brien said recently: “Humanitarian aid must remain neutral, impartial and free of political and military agendas.”



But one senior member of an international NGO said: “We cannot demonstrate total impartiality in this conflict, but we are strictly impartial in our services. This is a big difference.

“We are trying to do our best and be very conscious that we are only working on one side. The UN and ICRC etc, are not doing the same exercise. They don’t recognise this internally either.”

Potential conflicts of interest, whether real or perceived, can be found everywhere.

For instance, the Norwegian Refugee Council, one of the main relief organisations in Syria, has struck a deal for access to Damascus with the Syria Trust for Development, a charity set up and run by Assad’s wife, Asma al-Assad.

The NRC’s secretary general is Jan Egeland, a UN special adviser and the chair of the International Syria Support Group.

The NRC said working with the trust was its best option. “NRC searched long and hard for partners in both opposition and government-controlled areas that can ensure our direct access to the displaced people in greatest need.

“Syria Trust was one of the partners selected because it allowed NRC staff to directly implement programming, without intermediaries, according to needs only and not political affiliation.

“That is the humanitarian impartiality principle we work by: we are only governed by how to serve those in greatest need and never take sides in a political conflict.”