http://www.indiatimes.com/news/india/dhaka-attack-mastermind-killed-murshidabad-hospital-fire-and-other-must-read-stories-from-saturday-260689.html
190
19
Bangladeshi security forces killed four Islamist militants, including the mastermind of an attack on a cafe in Dhaka last month in which 22 people, mostly foreigners, were killed, the head of police counter-terrorism in Dhaka said.

The militants were killed in a raid on their hideout in Naraynganj, outskirts of Dhaka. Bangladesh-born Canadian citizen Tamim Ahmed Chowdhury, the alleged mastermind of the attack on the cafe, was among those killed. Read more

1. 2 Dead As Fire Breaks Out In Murshidabad Hospital

Two people were killed while some others sustained injuries when a fire broke out in Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital on Saturday. Panic prevailed in the hospital as people ran helter-skelter leading to a near stampede.

"A fire broke out in the hospital. Two causalities were reported. Fire has been brought under control. There is no need for panic", chief medical officer of health (CMOH) S Saha said. Read more

2. India To Make Renewed Pitch To Acquire Armed US Drones 'Predator'

India is likely to make a renewed pitch to acquire armed drones from the US during defense minister Manohar Parrikar's visit to Washington next week to meet a requirement of the air force for a stealth cross-border strike option.

These are the very drones the US deploys frequently on the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. Any such acquisition, sources said, will bolster India's offensive options along some of its porous borders. Read more

3. Being Stuck In Traffic Jams May Increase The Risk Of Cancer, Says A New Study

Apart from wasting your time, long traffic jams may cause exposure to toxic fumes, and potentially increase various health risks, including cancer, say researchers, one of them of Indian origin.

Exposure to outdoor air pollution is among the top ten health risks faced by humans and is especially pronounced in urban concentrations, according to the World Health Organization (WHO). In October 2013, WHO classified outdoor air pollution as being carcinogenic to humans. Read more

4. DGCA To Crackdown On 'Cockpit Selfies' By Pilots, To Issue Circular On Air Safety

With clicking of midair selfies by pilots in cockpits getting recognised as a major distraction to safe flying globally, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) is soon going to issue an "air safety circular" on the issue. Airlines are going to be asked to ensure crew does not click pictures in cockpits mid-air.

The regulator had last week grounded some pilots for a week for taking mid-air selfies in the cockpit and warned others against doing so. "Our upcoming circular will comprehensively cover photography in aircraft," said an official. Read more

5. 400 Troublemakers In Kashmir Including Local Hizbul Commanders Identified, Likely To Be Held Under Public Safety Act

In a bid to break the cycle of violence in Jammu & Kashmir, central agencies have identified 400 local leaders fuelling protests and shared their names with the state police for an immediate crackdown, including detention under the Public Safety Act.

Intelligence officials said the list included overground workers of Hizbul Mujahideen and other terrorist outfits, besides local-level functionaries of Tehreek-e-Hurriyat, the outfit of 'hardline' separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani, and Jamaat-e-Islami. Read more

6. Zakir Naik Likely To Face Terror Charges As Government Set To Ban His NGO

Trouble seems to be growing for Mumbai-based controversial Islamic preacher Zakir Naik. The televangelist who is accused of inspiring a number of people to join ISIS might be slapped with terror charges. The union home ministry has decided to book Naik under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) for his speeches.

"The primary ground for invoking terror charges against Naik are statements by those involved in past terror acts, conceding that they were motivated by his speeches," said an intelligence officer. Read more