http://www.timeslive.co.za/thetimes/2016/10/11/At-Wits-end
190
19
The unnamed man was the second person to suffer such an injury yesterday.

Holy Trinity Church pastor Father Graham Pugin was shot at the entrance of the church which is next to the Wits Braamfontein campus. He was reportedly ​standing at the entrance of the church, protecting students, as police advance with a Nyala.



Police have said they used "appropriate" force in defending themselves and property as student protests continued to escalate.

Parts of Braamfontein were closed off to motorists yesterday following battles between police, students and security guards on the Wits University campus.

A bus was set alight near Jorissen Steet. The university has maintained a tough stance and insists classes will resume today after #FeesMustFall protesters tried to shut down the campus, despite a heavy police presence.

Students clashed with private security early yesterday morning after being denied access to the Great Hall (Solomon Mahlangu House). They threw stones, rocks and bottles. Police stepped in. A crowd of students tried to block two nyalas from gaining access to the piazza outside the Great Hall.



Police dispersed the crowd with stun grenades, rubber bullets and a water cannon. Students fought back as police chased them through campus.



ANONYMOUS: A student prowls the passages of Wits University yesterday Picture: ALON SKUY

Wits SRC secretary-general Fasiha Hassan said: "Let's be very, very clear here. I know my students; they don't act like this. When they do, it is out of self defence."

Hassan said students did not plan to go into Braamfontein but a large group ended up there after being chased by police.

Talks between students and the university appear to have stalled.

Earlier, FeesMustFall leader Busisiwe Seabe said students would occupy Jorissen Street outside the Wits Art Museum until they were able to "reclaim Solomon Mahlangu House".

Wits University spokesman Shirona Patel said police dispersed students after they demanded "access to Solomon Mahlangu House, even though we had allocated designated areas for protest".

She said despite the protests some classes resumed yesterday although attendance was low.

She confirmed that 11 people had been arrested, mostly off-campus.

Protesters pelted a Puma shop in Braamfontein with rocks late yesterday. They broke the windows and allegedly made off with bags and shoes. Police arrived shortly after, dispersing the protesters with rubber bullets.

Police have warned that they will use "proportional force" against students.

Police commissioner Lieutenant-General Khomotso Phahlane said yesterday that police were forced to defend themselves against students.

"The amount of stones pelted at security personnel got to the point where police acted," he said.

The University of Pretoria is working on developing online and distance learning as the disruption of academic activities keep escalating , keeping the university shut. Classes were scheduled to resume yesterday but workers joined students under the banner of the #FeesMustFall and #OutsourcingMustFall movements, shutting down the university.

No more business as usual: Dali Mpofu's ultimatum to Wits VC Habib

Examinations are scheduled to begin on November 14. The university has assured students and parents that it is committed to completing the academic year.

Students clashed with police and private security at the university's Hatfield campus. Students scaled the perimeter fence and tried to storm a barrier of security guards and police.

"We spent the whole night at the campus and implemented our programme in the morning (yesterday). We did [the same] at Sefako Makgatho Health Sciences University in Ga-Rankuwa [last night]. Tonight we are camping at Tshwane University of Technology to ensure a complete shutdown," said activist Vusi Mahlangu.

UCT warns that campus roads ‘may be blocked’ as protests continue

At the University of KwaZulu-Natal the academic programme was suspended until further notice following running battles between protesting students and police at the Westville campus yesterday.

Students disrupted lectures before gathering at the campus' main quad where some pelted police and private security with rocks and stones. Police retaliated with stun grenades and teargas.

A University of Cape Town crèche - for children of staff and students - was evacuated yesterday after they received an "anonymous phone call".

The university will remain closed today and it is not known when classes will resume. - Additional reporting Aron Hyman