http://www.standardmedia.co.ke/article/2000215451/police-kill-four-suspected-gangsters-in-kisumu
190
19


Updated Sat, September 10th 2016 at 12:49 GMT +3

In this picture take in December 2015, police officers examine an AK 47 gun that was recovered from thugs at Makasembo road in Kisumu. A suspect was arrested. Police has sounded alarm over the return of criminals in Kisumu after a lull.

Police in Kisumu have killed four gangsters in two separate incidents as it fights to stop the return of armed gangs who had been driven out of town several months ago.

Kisumu County police commander Titus Yoma on Saturday said they had tightened security in the town with increased patrols and warned members of the gangs that their days were numbered.

He spoke after his officers killed One armed robber and arrested another at the Mamboleo Junction along Kisumu-Kakamega road after a chase. Last week, three other robbers were gunned down at Kisian as they planned to commit a robbery.

In the Mamboleo incident, one suspected robber was shot dead and another arrested after a gang of five engaged police in a shootout.

Mr Yoma said the gang opened fire after their attempts to escape a hot pursuit hit a dead end. "The saloon car they were fleeing in veered off the road and rammed a wall. They then engaged police in a shootout before one was felled," he said.

He said police captured one of the fleeing suspects who will help them with investigations. Two loaded AK-47 magazines and a rifle were recovered during the 7pm incident.

"We got a tip off from members of the police that the five were planning a robbery within town and we swung into action immediately," he said.

In the last week's incident, three suspected thugs were shot dead at Kisian, some 10km from Kisumu town.

Acting on a tip off, officers from Flying Squad Unit traced them after residents raised alarm that a car with similar descriptions matched the Toyota Caldina the three were in, was spotted in Kondele with suspicious individuals.

Police said when flagged, the suspects fired on the officers, who shot back and killed them instantly. A panga and two guns; a Browning pistol and an AK-47 rifle with 15 rounds of ammunition were recovered from them.

The three who, according to Mr Yoma, were part of a gang that has been reigning terror in the lakeside town for the past three weeks were planning robbery on an Mpesa shop in Maseno, 25 kilometres away.

He said the recent spate of attacks gave them reason to suspect that dreaded gangs were making a slow return.