http://en.farsnews.com/newstext.aspx?nn=13950620001346
195
19
World

Israel Strikes Syrian Army Positions in Quneitra Again

TEHRAN (FNA)- The Israeli air force violated the Syrian airspace again and launched airstrikes on an army base in Quneitra province on Saturday hours after Fatah al-Sham (Nusra) Front started a massive raid in the same province in Southwestern Syria.

There is yet no report on the possible number of casualties in the Israeli air raid that was carried out in violation of the international laws.

The Israeli army also targeted a Syrian military unit in the Golan Heights last week after it alleged that the army had fired several mortal rounds at targets in Israel.

Fatah al-Sham (the al-Qaeda-affiliated terrorist group previously known as the al-Nusra Front) kicked off a new wave of heavy clashes with the Syrian army in Quneitra province on Saturday.

Several terrorist groups, including Ahrar al-Sham, Beit-ul-Moqaddas and the Free Syrian Army (FSA), are assisting the Fatah al-Sham terrorist group in its military operations against the government forces.

The Fatah al-Sham said that its military operations are aimed at occupying the Northern part of Quneitra province.

On Thursday, Israeli aircraft attacked targets in Syria for the second time in five days after they claimed a mortar shell from Syria struck the Israeli-occupied part of Golan Heights.

No casualties from the shellfire were reported and hours later the Israeli air force targeted Syrian Army's mortar launchers in the Northern Syrian Golan Heights.

Also on Thursday, the Syrian army and popular forces continued their advances in Quneitra, inflicting heavy losses on the terrorists in different areas of the province.

The pro-government troops targeted a vehicle carrying terrorists in Jabata al-Khashei-Oufania in Tal Sahi in the Northern parts of Khan Arnaba, destroying it and killing all the militants inside.

Also, the army units in cooperation with the National Defense Forces killed tens of terrorists in Khan Arnaba and in al-Hurriya-al-Hamidiya road near Abu Shabata and the Western parts of al-Ba'ath town.

Elsewhere, the Fatah al-Sham's positions, mortar-launchers and military vehicles in the two villages of al-Adnaniya and al-Hamidiya were destroyed by the army.

Then on Friday, the terrorist groups suffered heavy casualties and their military vehicles sustained major damage after their positions in the Southwestern province of Quneitra came under fire by the Syrian army.

The Syrian army tanks opened heavy fire at the bases of the terrorist groups in Ein al-Beidha in the Northern side of Oufania, destroying a number of military vehicles, some of which loaded with arms and ammunition.

The area is close to where fighting between the Syrian army and terrorist groups is taking place.

Last Sunday, Israeli aircraft struck Syrian positions after it claimed a number of shells landed on the Israeli-controlled Golan.

Israel captured the Golan, a strategic plateau, from Syria in the 1967 Middle East war and annexed it in 1981 in a move that has not won international recognition.

Israel's air raids on the Syrian army units and bases in Quneitra have now developed into a full blown pattern with the Israeli army firing missiles and staging air raids on the Damascus army as soon as terrorists start offensives in the region.

Israel has erected several field hospitals on the occupied side of the Golan and been treating Nusra, ISIL and other terrorists wounded in the clashes with the Syrian army for the last 2 to 3 years.