http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/2016-09/07/c_135669029.htm
190
19
Dilma Rousseff delivers a statement at the Alvorada Palace in Brasilia, Brazil, on Aug. 31, 2016. The Brazilian Senate voted on Wednesday to strip Dilma Rousseff of the presidency by 61 votes in favor to 20 votes against. This means Rousseff is immediately and permanently removed from her role and Michel Temer, who assumed the interim presidency after Rousseff was suspended in May, will become president until the end of this term in 2018. (Xinhua/Wilton Junior/Agencia Estado)

RIO DE JANEIRO, Sept. 6 (Xinhua) -- Brazil's former President Dilma Rousseff left on Tuesday the official presidential residence, the Alvorada Palace, amid salutations from her supporters.

As she left the presidential residence for the last time, accompanied by former Justice Minister Jose Eduardo Cardozo, who defended her in the impeachment process, Rousseff got out of the car to greet supporters waiting outside.

She received many roses while being saluted by the crowd who sang songs of support to the first woman president of Brazil.

"This is a very important demonstration of solidarity," Cardozo said.

Rousseff was removed from Brazilian presidency by a Senate vote last week after a nine-month-long impeachment battle. She was impeached for breaking fiscal responsibility laws in her management of the federal budget.

After moving out of the presidential residence, Rousseff is flying to Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul state. She started her political career and lived there before working for the administration of her predecessor Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva in the capital Brasilia.

Her daughter and grandchildren are now living in Porto Alegre.

Rousseff has recently said she will also spend some time in Rio, where her mother lives.

Her vice president Michel Temer, who took over during the suspension of her post, will serve out the rest of her term until elections are held in 2018.

Related:

Profile: Dilma Rousseff

Backgrounder: Chronology of Brazilian president Rousseff's impeachment process

Rousseff's allies at home and abroad enraged at impeachment

BRASILIA, Aug. 31 (Xinhua) -- As Brazil and Latin America reeled from the impeachment of Brazil's president Dilma Rousseff on Wednesday, reactions quickly began pouring in, mostly from her saddened supporters.

Brazil's Central Union of Workers (CUT), a stalwart Rousseff ally behind many of the protests in her favour, was indignant. In a statement, it said Dilma had faced "a coup" and predicted that unions and workers' associations would unite against any attempt to "strip them of their rights." Full story