http://www.express.co.uk/news/uk/723008/Russia-Vladimir-Putin-Navy-English-Channel-Britain-Syria-Bashar-al-Assad-Mediterranean
138
13
GETTY Vladimir Putin is set to sail ships down the Channel en route to Syrian waters

Mr Putin is mobilising his fearsome navy to Syrian waters in a bid to “seize control” of the Mediterranean and Black Seas, but they have to enter British waters in order to get there. The fleet will pass across the North Sea and English Channel in the coming days and will be stalked all the way by several Royal Navy ships, including HMS Richmond. As Russian fighter jets continue to carry out fake bombing raids near the Orkney Isles, taking off from huge aircraft carriers, one defence expert has openly mocked the British Navy’s capabilities.

Alexander Khrolenko, the military mouthpiece for Russian news agency RIA, said: “While the North Atlantic bloc is stalling in the sands of the Middle East, the Russian Navy seizes control over the Atlantic, not to mention the Mediterranean and Black Seas." He went on to warn that Russia would remain the dominant force in the Mediterranean for some time to come because “what is left of the Royal Navy” is “no match” for the Russian fleet. Mr Putin’s fearsome Northern Fleet is led by nuclear aircraft carrier Admiral Kuznetsov and battle cruiser Peter the Great.

GETTY Putin seems intent on dominating the world's oceans after mobilising his fleet

GETTY The British Navy are stalking Russia's movements as they conduct training drills near Scotland

A Kremlin source said: “The Admiral Kuznetsov is currently conducting flight operations off the east coast of the Orkneys. "The pilots need to be certified for carrier take-offs and landings at day and night before it takes up station in the Mediterranean. "They are free to do this in international waters, but once they are in the English Channel, the aircraft will be grounded."

Speaking about the approach of the ships, a Nato naval source added: “It’s not catching us by surprise, we are working up what to do and we are all over it. "The most likely thing is that they will go through the North Sea, down the Dover Strait and through the Channel. “They might even stop off the North East coast to fly for a bit.”

Inside the Russian Army Thu, October 27, 2016 A look inside the powerful Russian Army. Play slideshow Ministry of Defence Russia 1 of 31 Combat divers are armed with night vision goggles and underwater submachine guns