http://www.thenational.scot/news/support-for-unaccompanied-child-refugees-delayed-by-home-office-red-tape.23825
195
19
Support for unaccompanied child refugees ‘ delayed by Home Office red tape’

If you would prefer unlimited access, please support our journalism with a website subscription. Subscribe today for just £3.99 a month.

Registered users can read up to 10 articles for free each month.

Will fin breid, barley-bree an paintit room. Whan MacLean meets wi's friens in Springburn. Aa thae roses an geeans will turn tae blume. An a black laud frae yont Nyanga. Dings the fell gallows o the burghers doun.

Black an white ane-til-ither mairriet. Mak the vile barracks o thair maisters bare. Sae come aa ye at hame wi freedom. Never heed whit the houdies croak for Doom. In yer hous aa the bairns o Aidam.

Tak the road an seek ither loanins. Wi thair ill-ploys tae sport an play. Nae mair will our bonnie callants. Merch tae war whan our braggarts crousely craw. Nor wee weans frae pitheid an clachan. Murn the ships sailin doun the Broomielaw. Broken faimilies in launs we've hairriet. Will curse 'Scotlan the Brave' nae mair, nae mair.

Roch the win i the clear day's dawin. Blaws the clouds heilster-gowdie owre the bay. But thair's mair nor a roch win blawin. Thro the Great Glen o the warl the day. It's a thocht that wad gar our rottans. Aa thae rogues that gang gallus fresh an gay.

HOME Office red tape held up help for unaccompanied child refugees, a Scottish council claims.

In September, Renfrewshire Council agreed to start work to establish support arrangements for a “small number” of lone child asylum seekers following a Westminster request.

However, officials claim they were unable to set this up because the UK Government’s relocation scheme does not apply in Scotland because of the separate legal system.

Yesterday Councillor Mark Macmillan, who heads the Labour-led local authority, said the matter is still unresolved – despite a fresh request to Scottish councils to take new arrivals from Calais camps.

About 1,000 unaccompanied under-16s are currently being cared for by Kent County Council, with hundreds more set to arrive in the UK this week as French authorities prepare to close the controversial camps.

Unions call on teachers to resist obligatory 'toxic' terror training



Campaigners call for detention centre plan to be blocked



Macmillan said failures to address the cross-border difference has forced vulnerable youngsters to go without help.

He said: “I believe everyone has a duty to help those fleeing persecution and am pleased my fellow councillors in Renfrewshire agreed this year to do our share. Renfrewshire Council is already leading the way within Scotland on its work to resettle vulnerable people fleeing the Syrian conflict – the 81 refugees accepted by the area since last year is the second-highest of any local authority in the UK.

“We would like to build on that further by offering safety and shelter to a small number of the children arriving in the UK without anyone to support them through what must be an incredibly upsetting experience at such a young age.

“I welcome the decision made by the Home Office this week to ask for help from Scottish councils, and we will stay in touch with them to find out what is required.

“But I am frustrated at knowing we could have done more by now had the government not dragged their heels on the legal process around the national transfer scheme over recent months.”



