http://m.themalaymailonline.com/malaysia/article/mca-probe-threats-against-bersih-members
138
13
MCA: Probe threats against Bersih members

Share this article

Maria Chin beseeched the Inspector-General of Police (IGP) yesterday to take swift action after receiving death threats purportedly from local IS terrorists. — Picture by Saw Siow Feng KUALA LUMPUR, Oct 19 — MCA today condemned the violent threats against Bersih 2.0 members and urged the police to investigate all elements of violence including remarks made by Sungai Besar Umno chief Datuk Jamal Yunos and former armed forces veteran Mohd Ali Baharom.

“As the Penal Code has laws against possession of terrorist materials where offenders face jail terms, fines and forfeiture of the property dealt with or items concerned upon conviction, MCA urges Bukit Aman’s Counter Terrorism Division to investigate and apprehend the culprit(s) responsible for the doctored images and death threats since the WhatsApp message warning read ‘ini amaran Islamic State Malaysia’.



“Similarly, the sender must be probed for links or contacts with IS and any other terrorist organisation like al-Qaeda, JI, Boko Haram, Abu Sayyaf, etc in the Middle East and in Southeast Asia,” MCA vice-president Datin Paduka Chew Mei Fun said in a statement.



Fearing harm to her three sons, Bersih 2.0 chairman Maria Chin Abdullah beseeched the Inspector-General of Police (IGP) yesterday to take swift action after receiving death threats purportedly from local Islamic State (IS) terrorists.

The electoral reform group chief said she received a warning through a WhatsApp message from an unknown phone number that she and her three children would be beheaded if the Bersih 5 rally goes on as scheduled on November 19.

Similar warnings were made to Bersih 2.0 secretariat member Mandeep Singh and Human Rights Society president Datuk Ambiga Sreenevasan on Monday.

“Likewise, Ali Tinju who had uttered such a warning to Maria Chin in September this year, or Red Shirts chief Jamal Yunos who claimed IS operatives had infiltrated Bersih 2.0 and he who had threatened another May 13 race riot and violence — both should not be excluded from investigations by the authorities,” Chew added.

Mohd Ali, popularly known as Ali Tinju, had previously, in an interview with news portal Free Malaysia Today (FMT) reportedly said that Chin should be careful and that she may “no longer walk on this earth.”

Jamal who leads the ‘Red Shirts’ meanwhile, previously alleged that IS had infiltrated Bersih and had lodged a police report on the matter, naming PKR MP Rafizi Ramli as his informant, which the latter vehemently denied.

Jamal also led the Red Shirts counter-rallies against Bersih 2.0, during the latter’s nationwide campaign for its Bersih 5 rally, which saw several episodes of violent clashes.

“MCA also implores the Malaysia Communications and Multimedia Commissions and Bukit Aman Cyber Crimes Division to track and identify the person(s) responsible for creating and sending such ghastly images and profanity-laced threats to “sembelih (slaughter),” she added.