http://www.bangkokpost.com/opinion/postbag/1117253/our-king-will-live-on
190
19
I am a doctor. The truth about death and dying is a familiar and accepted part of life to me. That is, until the evening of Thursday, Oct 13, 2016.

Never before have I experienced such sorrow. Its depth reaches not only into my heart but also to the very core of my soul, filling them with unfathomable darkness. The breath of such sorrow reaches across this vast country, touching the lives of every man and woman, young and old, rich and poor. It is inescapable. There is no respite. It is everywhere and anywhere, all at once. It is encompassing our hearts, our minds and our souls. All one can do is mourn in the hope that, by mourning, we will finally accept what is already an irreversible part of history.

Someone posted a teaching by Buddha during the last days of his life, to Anon, his closest and best loved disciple. It reads, "Do not grieve so, Anon, for I am with you everywhere. I am in the leaves on the tree, the water in the river and even the sunshine. The wind that touches your skin is a blessing from me, Anon. I am even in the soil and dust. I am in your heart and your body, yet I am outside of it. I am in everything that surrounds you."

And so, King Bhumibol lives on in his beloved nation. He lives on in the lush countryside he helped to create from barren, dry land. He lives still in the ponds and reservoirs that he commissioned to build. His images can be seen in homes and offices across the country. His works are evident in the bountiful smiles of farmers, coffee growers and many others who are taught to earn a meaningful living through his royal projects.

Most of all, his teachings, his words, his ideals and aspirations for his country and his people remain an integral part of who we are. And finally, his life, lived as an example, will live on in all of us who love him.

Chulathida Chomchai

Trump undermines democracy

Donald Trump's belligerence in the third and final presidential debate belies his narcissistic inability to accept that he is likely to lose to a woman in the biggest contest in the world.

Trump is willing to imperil America's tradition of peaceful power transfers by refusing to abide by the result if he loses, the most probable outcome in next month's election.

He is a grave threat to the underpinnings of a great democracy. If this occurs, Trump's intransigence will set a dangerous precedent in undermining the legitimacy of fairly conducted democratic elections around the world.

The Republican nominee puts himself -- his vanity, his self-obsession, his need to project dominance and therefore his need to win -- far above everything in life.

Trump continues to rant that the race is rigged against him, widespread fraud could be perpetrated at the polls and believes there to be a conspiracy among Mrs Clinton, international corporations and the news media to sabotage his candidacy.

If Trump holds true to his refusal to accept defeat, it is testament to his fear of being labelled a loser as the ultimate humiliation. Trump needs to be reminded that pride screeches loudest before the fall as the world continues to watch on in horror.

Joseph Ting

Duterte right about USA

A Bangkok Post online report had this excerpt: "In his remarks on Thursday, [Philippine President Rodrigo] Duterte also accused the United States of 'idiotic arrogance' and suggested it was losing influence in Southeast Asia. Cambodia and Laos are already allies of China and now the Philippines is veering towards China, he added. China, he said, 'does not go around insulting people, insisting on policies to follow them and trying to control the money of the world through the IMF and the World Bank'."

While I am not a fan of Duterte, considering him a loud-mouthed Asian version of Donald Trump, what he claims is true. The United States just cannot ever shut up or stop meddling in other governments' affairs, which is indeed insulting.

The Americans are getting their just deserts. The sooner Barack Obama is replaced as president, no matter by whom, the US might be better for it.

Charcoal Ridgeback

Who said it best?

Compare the pair: one tells women not to wear bikinis to the beach lest they arouse the lust of men who cannot control themselves, the other denies assaulting a woman, saying she "wouldn't be my first choice". One realised the error of his politically incorrect comments and apologised, the other said he wouldn't even apologise to his wife.

The first was Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha after the Koh Tao murders, the second was US Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump last week.

Yes, hard to believe, but after all the gaffes, embarrassments, threats to throw podiums at reporters and general snappiness, Gen Prayut has risen in the ranks of potential and actual world leaders.

Mostly, this has happened by default. Between Trump and Rodrigo Duterte running around calling Barack Obama a son of everything under the sun, comparing himself to Hitler and confusing everybody about his relationships with China and the US, Gen Prayut suddenly seems a calm voice of reason.

During Trump's spectacular implosion, he has been likened to dictators. Surely this is offensive to Gen Prayut.

I would be among the last to call Gen Prayut a leader worthy of looking up to, but finally we can look around and say that it could be worse.

James Wilde Pathum Thani

Rough justice for Yingluck

Former PM Yingluck Shinawatra has been fined 35.7 billion baht by the junta over the rice pledging scheme before the court case against her has even been concluded.

This sets a dangerous legal precedent and would suggest to most fair-minded observers that the rule of law does not really apply in Thailand and that Ms Yingluck is being victimised as a way of removing her family from politics.

While the rice scheme was clearly a disastrous policy, it has not been proved that Ms Yingluck benefited personally by as much as one baht. Many countries have similar agricultural subsidies.

Who will be brave enough in future Thai governments to launch similar schemes if they know they may end up with a huge fine?

Puzzled of Pattaya

CONTACT: BANGKOK POST BUILDING

136 Na Ranong Road Klong Toey, Bangkok 10110

Fax: +02 6164000 email: postbag@bangkokpost.co.th

All letter writers must provide full name and address.

All published correspondence is subject to editing at our discretion.