https://www.yahoo.com/movies/netflix-spain-unveils-first-original-film-seven-years-215904963.html
190
19
Netflix Spain said Tuesday it will mark its one-year anniversary at the end of October by releasing the first original production from Spain, Seven Years, starring Paco Leon. The streaming giant will release the thriller-drama on Oct. 28 day-and-date in 190 countries.

Barcelona-based Cactus Flower and Madrid-based Metronome co-produced the film for Netflix, which started operations in Spain on Oct. 20 last year.

Goya Award-winner Roger Gual (Smoking Room, Tasting Menu) directed the story written by Jose Cabeza and Julia Fontana about four friends who form a company and discover one night that to find a solution that can save their friendship and themselves, they must choose one to sacrifice his freedom to save the rest from personal and financial ruin.

Leon, a popular face for Spanish television audiences thanks to his role on primetime comedy series Aida, will be joined by Manuel Moron (Cell 211), Juan Pablo Raba (Narcos), Juana Acosta and Alex Brendemuhl (Truman).

Netflix also has acquired its first original series shot and produced in Spain, the company confirmed last week, snagging Velvet and Gran Hotel director Carlos Sedes for a 1920s-era, female-driven drama.

In March, Netflix announced a 16-episode series Las Chicas del Cable set to start shooting in Madrid this year, with Bambu Producciones' Ramon Campos and Teresa Fernandez Valdes executive producing.

The series, which will run in 50-minute time slots, will debut worldwide on Netflix in 2017, telling the story of four women from different social strata in Spain who work together as switchboard operators at the state-owned phone company's central headquarters in Madrid. Blanca Suarez, Ana Polvorosa, Maggie Civantos, Ana Fernandez and Yon Gonzalez are slated to star.

News of Netflix's first Spanish film spread through Spanish social media sites quickly thanks to Leon's popularity, while the local industry applauded the U.S. company's ability to offer international exposure to talented but not widely known directors.

"My last film [Tasting Menu] got more international distribution, but my first film didn't leave Spain," Gual told the Spanish daily El Pais, referring to his Smoking Room, for which he won the 2003 Goya for new director. "For those of us that come from the film world, the idea that a product can be seen all at once in 190 countries is a bit daunting."

Read more: HBO to Launch Spain Streaming Service, Take on Netflix