http://www.wsj.com/articles/australian-consortium-bids-for-control-of-ausgrid-1474615486
195
19
ENLARGE AustralianSuper and IFM Investors have made an all-Australian bid for Ausgrid, a month after the government rejected an offer from Hong Kong and mainland China bidders. Photo: European Pressphoto Agency

MELBOURNE, Australia—A pair of Australian infrastructure investors has bid for a controlling interest in the country’s largest electricity network, roughly a month after the federal government formally blocked an offer from Hong Kong and mainland China bidders.

The government of eastern New South Wales state said Friday that it had received an unsolicited proposal for a long-term lease of Ausgrid, a network that provides power to 1.7 million homes and businesses in Sydney and surrounding areas.

The bidding consortium, made up of IFM Investors and AustralianSuper, said in a joint statement it had made an offer for a 50.4% interest in a 99-year lease of Ausgrid. Details of the bid were confidential, it said.

Last month, Canberra made the decision to block on national-security grounds China’s State Grid Corp. and Hong Kong-based Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd. from taking control of Ausgrid, in a deal valued at more than 10 billion Australian dollars (US$7.64 billion).

Steven Ciobo, Australia’s minister for trade, tourism and investment, said earlier this week that the country needed to take security into consideration in the sale of any infrastructure asset, but that Australia continued to welcome Chinese investment. Last year, the government said it would reject foreign bids to buy the country’s biggest agricultural empire, S. Kidman & Co.

Gladys Berejiklian, treasurer of New South Wales, said the fresh offer was a further indication of the strong market interest in Ausgrid.

The state government has put together a cross-agency panel to assess the consortium’s offer, and aimed to make a decision later this year, Ms. Berejiklian said. Still, she said the government continued to make preparations to relaunch an auction for Ausgrid.

The state has been working in recent years to sell leases to its electricity infrastructure to fund a A$20 billion investment in new infrastructure projects.

In November 2015, it struck a deal to lease 49% of high-voltage electricity transmission asset TransGrid to an Australian-led consortium that included Caisse de depot et placement du Quebec, an investment vehicle of the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority and a unit of Kuwait Investment Authority. That deal brought in gross proceeds of A$10.26 billion.

AustralianSuper and IFM Investors said their all-Australian offer for Ausgrid was unique and represented excellent value for the state government. AustralianSuper manages more than A$100 billion in members’ assets, while IFM is owned by 29 superannuation pension funds and manages more than A$72 billion.

Ausgrid, with assets valued at A$15.3 billion, distributes electricity across a 22,275 square-kilometer area that includes the Central Coast and Hunter regions.

On Monday, the government of neighboring Victoria state agreed a A$9.7 billion deal to lease Port of Melbourne—the country’s largest container port, visited by more than 3,000 ships a year—for 50 years to a consortium including Australian sovereign-wealth fund Future Fund and Queensland state’s investment vehicle QIC Ltd.

Write to Robb M. Stewart at robb.stewart@wsj.com