http://nation.com.pk/international/05-Sep-2016/polish-judges-accuse-government-of-politicizing-courts
190
19
WARSAW - Around 1,000 Polish judges on Saturday accused their EU country's rightwing government of politicising the judicial system amid a high-pitched constitutional crisis triggered by reforms to the top court.



"The executive and legislative branches of government are attempting to take control of the judiciary.

This process is intensifying," the judges said in a statement issued at an extraordinary congress in Warsaw.



Insisting Law and Justice (PiS) government reforms to the Constitutional Court undermine the rule of law and democracy, the European Commission has given Warsaw until the end of October to reverse them or face sanctions.

Judges on Saturday also expressed concern over government draft legislation intended to reform the judiciary, plans which have not been made public.



"Draft legislation focused on reforming the judiciary is being kept secret - judges are in the dark.

It's a violation of all possible standards," Dariusz Zawistowski, president of the National Judicial Council, told AFP.



"Judicial reforms will come into force without judges being consulted!" he added.

The congress demanded that administrative control over the courts be transferred from the justice ministry to the Supreme Court.



Poland's President Andrzej Duda, a trained lawyer, and Prime Minister Beata Szydlo both declined to attend the congress despite having been invited.



"Frankly, I don't see any way out" of the crisis, former Constitutional Court chief justice Andrzej Zoll told AFP.



"For there to be any hope of resolving the conflict, it's necessary for those in power to change their position and nothing suggest that they'll do so.

"

The judges also criticised recent legislation enacted by the PiS government intended to resolve the crisis.

The opposition and experts insist is it unconstitutional.



Last month, the Constitutional Court struck down more government reforms aimed at clipping its wings in the deepening constitutional crisis that has set Warsaw on a collision course with the EU.



After scoring a strong majority in elections late last year, the populist-oriented PiS immediately pushed through legislation which critics say paralysed the top court.

