https://www.newsday.co.zw/2016/10/27/violence-rocks-parliament/
190
19
OPPOSITION MPs yesterday violently clashed with police officers in Parliament, disrupting the question-and-answer session for almost one-and-a-half hours.

BY VENERANDA LANGA

The fracas started when Budiriro MP Costa Machingauta (MDC-T) appeared clad in a jacket with the national flag’s colours, resulting in Zvishavane-Ngezi MP John Holder (Zanu PF) raising a point of order.

All hell broke loose when Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly Mabel Chinomona demanded that Machingauta leave the House. But Machingauta refused, arguing that it was his constitutional right to wear a jacket, while pointing out that Bindura South MP Remigious Matangira (Zanu PF) was allowed to stay in the House, despite wearing a multi-coloured safari suit.

Sergeant-at-Arms, Nicholas Marufu was blocked from ejecting Machingauta by other MPs, resulting in him seeking the assistance of the police, who clashed with other legislators.

Some seated female MPs were trapped, as the police tried to forcefully remove Machingauta. Others fell on top of each other, with the police climbing on Parliament benches to remove Machingauta.

Noticing that they were overpowered by opposition MPs, who had reinforced around Machingauta, more police reinforcements were called, resulting in violent chaos.

The opposition MPs were eventually overpowered and Machingauta was forcibly carried out of Parliament.

Chinomona threatened the MPs with suspension if they disregarded her authority. But the opposition MPs would have none of that, with MDC-T vice-president, Nelson Chamisa, arguing that police actions were against the Parliament’s rules.

“What is clear is that the rules of Parliament give no authority to the invasion of police officers into the chamber. We have delegation of powers between the Executive, Judiciary and legislature and MPs have authority within the precincts of Parliament and police officers cannot interfere with MPs,” he said.

MDC-T legislator, Susan Matsunga (Proportional Representation), who was crying, then raised a point of order, saying she was sexually harassed in the melee.

“A police officer touched my breasts and backside during the fracas and may I know if it is right for them to do so? Am I a prostitute?” she asked in tears.

Zvimba East MP, Francis Mukwangwariwa (Zanu PF) also claimed during the fracas MDC-T MPs, Prince Sibanda (Binga North) and Joel Gabbuza (Binga South) assaulted a police officer.

Sibanda said Mukwangwariwa’s allegations were not fair and seemed to be directed at people from Binga.

Another female MDC-T MP, Lwazi Sibanda, claimed a police officer shoved his hand inside her skirt and scratched her.

Sibanda approached Chinomona’s chair and opened her skirt to show her the alleged scratches.

Chinomona said video evidence would be played and an investigation held to determine what transpired during the fracas.

On allowing the police to eject an MP from the House, she said it was permissible according to section 25 of the Privileges, Immunities and Powers of Parliament Act.

Chamisa challenged it, saying Clerk of Parliament, Kennedy Chokuda had misled Chinomona.

Harare Central MP Murisi Zvizwai (MDC-T) objected to use of video evidence from ZBC, saying the footage to be used in the inquiry must come from Parliament’s cameras.

Mufakose MP, Paurina Mpariwa (MDC-T) then said the evidence by female MPs on abuse by the police was frightening. She said it was unlawful for the police to take Machingauta to Harare Central Police Station for refusing to be ejected from Parliament.

MDC-T legislators then walked out of the House, singing Zanu yaora (Zanu PF is rotten), vowing they could not debate when they did not know where their colleague had been taken to.