http://www.news.com.au/national/nsw-act/brian-crickitt-murder-trial-gp-had-fight-with-wife-and-later-found-her-dead/news-story/dbae57a979a94ecda6c4ad288072a04e
190
19
AAP The Daily Telegraph

A SYDNEY GP accused of injecting his wife with a lethal dose of insulin told police he left home after a domestic argument and came home to find her dead.

Brian Kenneth Crickitt told detectives he left the couple’s Woodbine home in Sydney’s southwest in the early hours of New Year’s Day 2010, and arrived home later that morning to find his wife Christine, 58, in their en suite.

“I saw her lying on the floor, just sort of slumped face down on the floor,” he told police that night in a video-recorded interview, which was played at his trial on Thursday.

“She was obviously dead. She was cold,” he said.

Asked how he believed his wife died, Crickitt replied, “I don’t know” but added she had previously mentioned she had been thinking of “taking some pills”. “I don’t think she would do a thing like that,” he said.

Crickitt appeared emotional at times during the interview and sniffled into a hanky.

The 63-year-old has pleaded not guilty in the NSW Supreme Court to murder.

The prosecution alleges he injected Mrs Crickett with fast-acting insulin so he could claim her life insurance worth $568,000 and be with his new lover.

In an initial police interview on the morning of New Year’s Day, Crickitt said he had gone for a drive in his BMW before returning home.

However, in a second interview that evening the GP admitted he’d gone to his lover Linda Livermore’s home.

Crickitt described her as a “lady friend” with whom he’d slept twice and had discussed being with in the future.

He told police his marriage had become difficult in recent months and he’d been thinking of leaving his “volatile” wife.

“Life was unpleasant. I was pretty unhappy,” he said.

But he flatly denied giving her drugs.

The trial is continuing before Justice Clifton Hoeben without a jury.

OTHER NEWS

Dreamworld deaths spark calls for law review 4:28 There are calls for the Qld government to revise workplace safety laws in the wake of the Dreamworld tragedy