http://www.philstar.com/metro/2016/10/28/1637961/4-dead-drug-war
190
19
MANILA, Philippines - At least four drug suspects were killed in police operations in Manila, Caloocan and Navotas over the past two days.

One of them was Daniel Adriano, 29, who was shot dead in the Manila North Cemetery before dawn yesterday.

The Blumentritt community precinct conducted an operation in the cemetery just before 5 a.m. yesterday, targeting two alleged drug pushers, including Adriano, said precinct commander Chief Inspector Marlon Mallorca.

Adriano reportedly shot at lawmen as they approached him and three others, triggering a shootout in which he was killed, he said.

Police officers seized from the four suspects a .38 caliber revolver, sachets said to contain shabu and drug paraphernalia.

Adriano’s relatives, who were living in the cemetery and serving as caretakers of some niches and mausoleums, denied he had a gun but admitted he used illegal drugs.

Nation ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1

Police officers also questioned around 50 people on their involvement in the illegal drug trade.

In Navotas City, drug suspect Manuel Mangali was killed after he allegedly fired at police officers during a sting at around 4:15 a.m. yesterday.

He previously surrendered through the Oplan Tokhang program but reportedly did not stop his illegal drug activities, police said.

In Caloocan City, Crispin Santos, 31, and 20-year-old Daniel Padilla were killed after a brief chase and an alleged shootout with members of the city police’s Community Precinct 7 along Riverside in Sta. Quiteria at past 4 a.m. on Wednesday.

Police officers seized two .38 caliber revolvers, 12 fired cartridges from a 9mm pistol, a coin purse containing three sachets of suspected shabu, two more sachets of shabu, a rolled piece of aluminum foil said to contain marijuana and drug paraphernalia.

Police officers staged the operation after receiving a tip that the suspects, along with several others, played a gambling game with sachets of shabu used as bets.

In Marikina, drug surrenderee Arman dela Paz, 47, was standing along P. Burgos street in Barangay Sto. Niño when a motorcycle-riding assailant shot him at around 6 p.m. Wednesday.

Dela Paz was categorized as a pusher and user in the barangay’s watchlist, said Chief Superintendent Romulo Sapitula, Eastern Police District director.

13 nabbed in Taguig, Las Piñas

Meanwhile, at least 13 alleged drug suspects were arrested in police operations in Taguig and Las Piñas on Wednesday, an official said yesterday.

Ten of the suspects were reportedly caught in a pot session at around 4 a.m. in Lower Bicutan, Taguig, said Southern Police District (SPD) spokesperson Superintendent Jenny Tecson.

The arrested suspects are Rustom Pou, 22; Pearly Anne Jalotlot, 26; Bernadell Altisen, 21; Reynaldo Lobo, 49; Wilson Merlan, 41; Bernabe Mamontos 42; Andy Olvido, 43; Philip Degado, 28; Ezekiel Estrella, 30; and David Olvido, 29.

Tecson said that the Taguig police received a tip about illegal gambling along Reyes street in Lower Bicutan but failed to arrest the suspects as they scampered away.

While on their way back to their post, the lawmen noticed a partly opened door of a house, where they saw the 10 suspects allegedly using drugs.

Four sachets of shabu were recovered during the operation.

Also in Taguig, drug suspects Rico Garcia, 41, and Ronnie Ramos, 52, were arrested in Barangay Sta. Ana at around 10 a.m. after police officers received reports about their alleged activities.

Two sachets said to contain shabu and drug paraphernalia were seized from the suspects, Tecson said.

Las Piñas police arrested Arnel Valeriano, 32, after serving him an arrest warrant for theft, with bail set at P20,000.

Valeriano is ranked seventh on the city police’s drug watchlist. – Ghio Ong, Non Alquitran, Robertzon Ramirez