https://www.sott.net/article/328770-India-and-Pakistan-relations-have-deteriorated-sharply-accusations-of-proxy-war-over-Kashmir-region
138
13
Planned terrorist attack

Context

Mutual provocations

In the aftermath of the attack on the Indian army base in Kashmir, Pakistan has been accused of conducting a proxy war.Yesterday there was an armed attack on the base of the 12th Infantry Battalion of the Indian Army in the town of Uri. 17 soldiers were killed. In return fire, all four attackers were eliminated.The representative of the Indian Border Security Force (BSF), Vikash Chandra, also said that previously was in influx of about 200 militants from Pakistan , who are involved in the growth of violence in the region.Indian authorities blamed the terrorist group "Jaish-e-Mohammad" for this attack, which operates from Pakistan. In January 2016, members of the organization conducted an attack on the Indian Air Force base at Pathankot. Deputy Minister of Jammu and Kashmir Nirmal Singh said that "It is a proxy war. A country, that is, Pakistan, is focusing on how to disrupt Jammu and Kashmir".The attack took place against the backdrop of ongoing protests in the Indian states of Jammu and Kashmir,Almost all of the events ended in clashes with police and security forces, and led to casualties on both sides.Katehon previously informed readers that Kashmir is a disputed territory. Its division is not embodied in formal agreements. India controls the territory called the state of Jammu and Kashmir. Under the jurisdiction of Pakistan is Gilgit-Balsistan. In addition, there is a self-proclaimed unrecognized state of Azad Kashmir which is under Pakistan's control. A small area is a part of Chinese territory.The border between India and Pakistan was marked by United Nations in 1949 as ceasefire line. For more than half a century since, in this territory, has been either conventional warfare between India and Pakistan or subversive activity. As a rule, the attacks occur on Indian territory, and are considered as organized by local Islamists or groups from Pakistan.The situation in Indian-administered Kashmir has deteriorated dramatically since July 8th, 2016, when one of the leaders of the group "Hizb-ul Mujahiddin", Muzaffar Burhan Wani, was killed. Riots then ensued and about 80 were killed and more than 10 thousand people were injured.