http://www.4-traders.com/news/Syrian-Military-Says-It-Will-Reduce-Airstrikes-on-Aleppo--23169606/
190
19
BEIRUT-Syria's military said Wednesday it will decrease airstrikes on Aleppo's rebel-held areas after an international outcry over its Russian-backed bombardment of civilians over the past few weeks.

The military command accused rebel groups in Aleppo of using civilians as human shields and claimed that it wanted to improve the humanitarian situation in Aleppo's opposition-held neighborhoods, where some 300,000 people live under siege by the government.

The army "has decided to reduce the number of air and artillery strikes on the positions of the terrorists to help civilians who want to leave [for] safe areas," it said in a statement carried by Syria's state news agency SANA. The Syrian government routinely describes its opponents as terrorists.

The Syrian army and its allies, including key military backer Russia, launched a new offensive in Aleppo's eastern neighborhoods after a U.S.-Russian brokered cease-fire collapsed last month. Heavy bombardment has since targeted hospitals and killed hundreds of civilians.

The Syrian government continued to bomb Aleppo on Wednesday, according to the U.K.-based opposition monitoring group Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, as rebel groups targeted the city's government-held areas with rocket-propelled grenades.

Government forces and allied militias had advanced in some areas in eastern Aleppo as rebel groups continue to battle them, it said.

International aid organization Doctors Without Borders said in a report published Wednesday that out of just eight hospitals still open in east Aleppo, four had in the past days been damaged by bombings in four days. A blood bank was also damaged, it said.

Two hospitals supported by the organization were struck by what it described as continuous indiscriminate bombing.

"We don't trust [the regime] at all. The regime has killed and displaced us," said Muhammad al-Zein, who helps oversee hospitals in rebel-held Aleppo. "If the regime [says it] is going to lessen [strikes] now, it will increase them again at any moment."

Baraa Omar, a nurse at a hospital she said had been struck numerous times by the government, brushed off the army's announcement of a reduction in strikes as "just talk."

"If the United Nations was able to pressure [the Syrian government], then it would have broken the siege," she said. "The humanitarian situation [in Aleppo] is deteriorating. And the medical situation is even worse."

The U.N. Office for Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, or OCHA, said Tuesday that already-grim living conditions for civilians in Aleppo's besieged east have worsened.

"An assessment conducted in eastern Aleppo city concluded that 50 percent of the inhabitants expressed willingness to leave if they can," it said in a report on the situation on the ground in Aleppo. Food stores are "decreasing steadily" and access to water is diminishing.

The unabated violence has also affected the psychological and emotional health of the population, the report said.

"Arguments among spouses have reportedly increased as many women are blaming their husbands for choosing to stay while it was possible to leave the city," it said.