http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/714004/ISIS-jihadis-in-France-authorities-warn-thousands-radicalised-teenagers
190
19
GETTY Seventeen French youths have been killed fighting for the jihadists in Syria and Iraq

Alarming new data released by officials in France show how the twisted death cult known as ISIS is successfully turning a small but significant group of young European’s into fighters willing to kill in the name of Allah. According to French newspaper Le Figaro, which obtained the report, 1,954 children and teenagers have been identified by the security services as potential ISIS recruits over the past nine months. A source said that levels of radicalisation had more than doubled since the beginning of 2015, jumping 121 per cent.

Particularly concerning was the sharp rise in radicalised young women, the report found. For the first time, new female followers could outnumber males who have signed up to the extremist terror group. Authorities in France believe at least 17 French citizens have been killed fighting for ISIS this year and a further 37 have been indicted in France on terrorism or extremism charges.

Pray for Nice: The world pays tribute to victims of Bastille Day attack Mon, July 18, 2016 Gabby Logan, Simon Cowell and Justin Timberlake lead tributes to the 84 victims of the horrific terrorist attack in Nice, France on Bastille Day. Play slideshow REUTERS 1 of 37 A general view shows the crowd gathering on the Promenade des Anglais during a minute of silence on the third day of national mourning to pay tribute to victims of the truck attack in Nice

There are currently 689 French citizens fighting for the group in Iraq and Syria, and 17 of them are under the age of 18. Four teenagers have been arrested for terrorism-related offences in less than two weeks in a development the French defence minister Jean-Jacques Urvoas called “troubling”. All four were said to have fallen "under the spell" of Rachid Kassim, a French ISIS militant and recruiter accused of orchestrating several terrorist attacks via the jihadis' encrypted private messaging app Telegram.

GETTY In July, dozens were mowed down during the annual Bastille Day celebration in Nice

GETTY France has confirmed itself as the centre of Islamic extremism in Europe

GETTY Last November ISIS gunmen went on the rampage in Paris

In recent years, France has confirmed itself as the centre of Islamic extremism in Europe, following a spate of attacks which began with the killing of journalists at the Charlie Hebdo satirical magazine in Paris in January 2015. Last November ISIS gunmen went on the rampage in Paris, murdering 130 people in bars, restaurants and outside a sporting arena. Then in July, dozens were mowed down during the annual Bastille Day celebration in Nice when a 19 tonne cargo truck was deliberately driven into crowds.