https://au.news.yahoo.com/a/32669998/tiahleigh-palmer-cindy-palmer-queensland-schoolgirls-mother-claims-seized-blue-ford-belongs-to-her-foster-father/
192
19
The foster father of Queensland schoolgirl Tiahleigh Palmer has been charged with her murder.

VIDEO Man taken into police custody in relation to murder of schoolgirl Tiahleigh Palmer

He has been denied police bail and has been remanded in custody to appear in the Beenleigh Magistrates Court on Wednesday.

The man was today taken into custody earlier today by officers from a joint Homicide and Logan District investigation along with two other men and a woman.

VIDEO Tiahleigh Palmer's mother claims seized car belongs to schoolgirl's foster father

In addition a 19-year-old Chambers Flat man has been charged with two counts of perjury and one count each of attempting to pervert the course of justice and incest.

Speaking to the media on Tuesday afternoon, Detective Inspector Damien Hansen said the group were all known to each other.

"These persons are being questioned. They are known to each other. They are in custody," Inspector Hansen said.

Inspector Hansen said two of the people were "located" at addresses known to police.

"The others were intercepted at a shopping centre," he said.

The news comes after Queensland Police confirmed that the blue sedan seized by officers last week in relation to the murder of Tiahleigh Palmer once belonged to the schoolgirl's foster father.

Detective Inspector Damien Hansen also confirmed to media that the blue 2009 Ford Falcon XR6 seized as part of their murder investigation did previously belong to the girl's foster father.

The revelations comes after Tiahleigh's mother Cindy Palmer yesterday revealed on Facebook that the 12-year-old girl's carers were the owners of seized car and said they have since sold the vehicle.

A recent image of the beautiful Queensland schoolgirl Tiahleigh Palmer before her death. Source: Facebook.

“In relation to the Tiah Palmer murder we acknowledge there is a large media interest in this investigation,” Hansen told media on Tuesday at a press conference.

“The investigation has been going for 11 months and we’re very happy with the progress of it.”

“The investigation is at a crucial stage at this time.”

When he was directly questioned about the owner of the Ford Falcon he stated, “It did belong to the foster father yes.”

Queensland Police seized the blue Ford sedan in their investigation into the 12-year-old girl's murder. Photo: 7 News.

South Eastern Regional Crime Coordinator Superintendent Kerry Johnson said detectives had been working for 11 months towards this outcome.

“A team of dedicated detectives and police officers from the Homicide Group and the Logan District have been working long and endless hours to locate those responsible for her death,” Detective Superintendent Johnson said.

“Make no mistake, this is an investigation that is close to the hearts of all officers whose sole aim was to bring her alleged killer to justice."

Tiahleigh was last seen alive on October 30, 2015, after her foster father dropped her off near her school, Marsden State High on October 30.

One week later, the schoolgirl's body was found by a fisherman on the banks of the Pimpama river, which is located about 30 kilometres away.

Police claim their investigations have led them to a number of persons of interest.

Detective Superintendent Mark White said last week that the sedan was a vehicle of interest and will be forensically examined as part of their 11-month-long investigation.

The current owner is not believed to be linked to the investigation.

VIDEO Breakthrough in Tiahleigh Palmer murder investigation

"The investigation's been going on for almost 11 months and the investigators involved are relentless in identifying those persons who are responsible," White said.

The Queensland Government has offered a $250,000 reward for information, which leads to the apprehension or conviction of the person responsible for the little girl’s death.

Anyone with information is urged to contact Crime Stoppers on 1800 333 000.