http://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-3812538/Imogen-Thomas-flaunts-curves-leopard-print-leggings-takes-baby-Siera-stroll.html
130
13
She hasn't long become a mother for the second time.

But Imogen Thomas was still able to flaunt her curves when she stepped out in south London on Wednesday afternoon.

The buxom brunette, 33, was spotted enjoying a stroll with youngest daughter Siera, where she certainly commanded attention.

Scroll down for video

Mamma mia! Imogen Thomas was keen to flaunt her curves when she stepped out in south London on Wednesday afternoon

Clearly feeling good about her shape, the Swansea native looked confident as she pushed her one year-old tot along in a pram.

Wearing a simple black T-shirt with a plunging neckline, the glamour model cut a typically buxom figure in the capital.

Adding to this a pair of leopard-print leggings and her trim shape was clear to see.

All smiles: Clearly feeling good about her shape, the Swansea native looked confident as she pushed her one year-old tot along in a pram

Cheeky! Sporting a pair of leopard-print leggings, her post-pregnancy shape was clear to see

Good times: Wearing a simple black T-shirt with a plunging neckline, the glamour model cut a typically buxom figure in the capital

Seemingly loving her renewed motherhood, the ex-fling of Ryan Giggs was all smiles as she tried to entertain the youngster.

Pulling funny faces to engage her, at one point she stopped and peered intensely into the cot.

Then again, Imogen isn't necessarily shy when it comes to showing off her shape.

Earlier this year she released her own swimwear collection to great success - and was keen to try-on her creations in a series of recent selfies.

The former Miss Wales took to her Instagram, last month, to document herself trying on various two-pieces for her mini break - showing off her gorgeous womanly curves in the process.

Baby love: Seemingly loving her renewed motherhood, the ex-fling of Ryan Giggs was all smiles as she tried to entertain the youngster

Thirsty work! Imogen takes a moment to refresh herself with a bottle of mineral water

Mamma mia! The former WAG seemed in high spirits as she made her way through London

Pulling funny faces to engage her, at one point she stopped and peered intensely into the cot

Posing in the mirror, the mother-of-two looked incredible in an extremely low-cut white two-piece with glitzy gold embellishment on the bottoms and straps.

The top, held together by a single string, plunged straight down the centre of her bust, showcasing her ample breasts.

Keeping her hair away from her face in a tight plait, Imogen ensured all eyes were on her enviable hourglass figure and slender legs.

Opting for flattering white, the Big Brother star enhanced her deeply bronzed skin, having already holidayed in Ibiza last month.

Bikini babe: Imogen Thomas, 33, took to Instagram on Thursday to document herself trying on various bikinis for upcoming break to Las Vegas, flaunting her curves in the process

What an eyeful! Dressed in a burgundy bikini top with gold discs in another selfie, Imogen displayed her plentiful assets and endless cleavage in full-frontal view

Clearly wanting to show off the skimpy number from her range, Imogen wrote: ''I'm off to Vegas for the wknd, this is the new south beach bikini #Vegas #vivalasvegas'

She also posted a selfie in a second bikini, giving fans a proper eyeful in the close-up shot.

Dressed in a burgundy bikini top with gold discs on the straps, Imogen displayed her plentiful assets and endless cleavage in full-frontal view of the camera.

In similar style, she wrote to followers: 'Trying on some bikinis for my wknd away! love this from @chasingsummeruk Of course'

Covering her face with different pairs of aviator sunglasses in the shots, Imogen gave a flavour of the complete beachwear outfits she will be rocking by the pool in Sin City.

Hot mama: Imogen combines her time as a businesswoman with raising her two daughters Ariana and Siera, wearing one of her designs on a recent swimming trip with her girls

Imogen excitedly shared her new designs with her followers, having released her swimwear range Chasing Summer in time for summer.

The TV personality founded the company last year, on the basis of her own struggle during bikini shopping.

Her website explains that she decided to launch the range after failing to find a well-fitting bikini for a curvier woman.

It reads: 'The dream came true when she started jotting down different designs at night and making them into a reality today!'

Jet-setter: The Big Brother star showed off her deeply bronzed skin, having already holidayed in Ibiza last month, as she geared up for her Vegas getaway

The former Big Brother contestant is taking the Stateside break after a busy year, combining her time as a businesswoman with raising her two young daughters - Ariana, three, and Siera, nine months - who she shares with Australian businessman boyfriend Adam Horsley.

The star recently compared her changing shape after having two children to that of Kim Kardashian's in an interview to promote Bio Oil.

She said: 'I think all of my pregnancy weight has gone on my hips and bum.

'I feel like I have a similar shape to Kim Kardashian when she was pregnant, all in the hips and bum! My breasts have become bigger as well, they are really heavy!'