http://www.philstar.com/metro/2016/09/20/1625468/bato-visits-wake-cop-slain-drug-raid
190
19
MANILA, Philippines - Philippine National Police (PNP) chief Director General Ronald dela Rosa visited yesterday the wake of a policeman who was killed in a drug raid in Caloocan City last week.

The remains of Police Officer 1 Romeo Mandapat Jr. lie at the PNP Chapel at Camp Crame in Quezon City.

Mandapat was shot dead by security guard Jerson Maturan while his team was conducting Oplan Galugad in Barangay 178, Camarin.

Maturan was killed by Mandapat’s colleagues.

Dela Rosa handed over an initial assistance of P100,000 to Mandapat’s family.

The Office of the President will give P250,000 to the family of the slain policeman, Director Fernando Mendez Jr. of the Personnel and Records Management said.

Nation ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1

Mendez said Mandapat’s family would also receive a lifetime pension.

2 drug suspects killed

Two suspected drug pushers were killed in separate shooting incidents in Manila in the past two days.

A certain Jason died after he allegedly traded shots with police under the Delpan Bridge at past 3 a.m. yesterday.

Jason was taken to the Gat Andres Bonifacio Memorial Medical Center where he was declared dead on arrival.

Senior Police Officer 4 Glenzor Vallejo said members of the Manila Police District Station 5 managed to buy a sachet of shabu from Jason.

After the drug deal, police moved to arrest Jason but he allegedly pulled out a gun and fired at the lawmen, who returned fire.

On Sunday, Ismael Caimoy, 41, said to be a drug pusher, was shot dead by an unidentified man while he was sleeping on a table on Leyte street, Sampaloc.

Caimoy died at the scene.

Closed-circuit television footage showed the gunman emerging from Visayan street before shooting Caimoy.

SPO1 Bernardo Cayabyab said the suspect was about 5’6 tall and wearing a green jacket and bull cap.

A resident in the area told probers that Caimoy was allegedly involved in illegal drugs.

PNP on alert vs Abus

Meanwhile, the PNP remains on alert in Metro Manila following the arrest of a suspected Abu Sayyaf member in a drug raid in Culiat, Quezon City last week.

Juraid Sahibbun was among the 98 suspects nabbed by police for alleged links to the illegal drug trade.

Quezon City Police District director Senior Superintendent Guillermo Eleazar said they were still establishing if Sahibbun is affiliated with the terrorist group.

“We are checking whether he is really a member of the Abu Sayyaf,” Eleazar said.

Also arrested was Hadji Abraham, the alleged drug lord of Salam Compound who was on the QCPD’s drug watchlist. – Cecille Suerte Felipe, Rey Galupo