http://www.sfgate.com/world/article/News-of-the-Day-From-Around-the-World-9206211.php
193
19
News of the Day From Around the World

1 Gabon violence: Postelection violence in Gabon has killed between 50 and 100 people, the opposition presidential candidate said Tuesday, a toll much higher than the government’s count of three in days of violent demonstrations against the president’s re-election. Jean Ping has declared he is the rightful winner of the Aug. 27 vote, though election commission results showed President Ali Bongo Ondimba won by 1.57 percentage points. Clashes quickly broke out in this oil-rich Central African country after the results were announced last week.

2 Missile tests: The U.N. Security Council strongly condemned North Korea’s latest ballistic missile launches and threatened “further significant measures” if it refuses to stop its nuclear and missile tests.

3 Chemical attack: Syrian activists and rescue workers in the rebel-held part of the contested city of Aleppo said government warplanes have dropped suspected chlorine bombs on a crowded neighborhood, injuring dozens. Ibrahem Alhaj, a member of the Syria Civil Defense first responders team, says he arrived at the scene of the suspected attack shortly after a helicopter dropped barrels containing what he said were four chlorine cylinders. He said Tuesday that at least 80 civilians were transported to hospitals and treated for breathing difficulties.

4 Kabul firefight: Militants stormed a building housing the CARE International aid organization in Kabul, provoking an overnight firefight with security forces in which three gunmen were killed and six civilians were wounded, Afghan officials said Tuesday. The attack took place a day after twin bombings near the Afghan Defense Ministry killed at least 35 people and wounded more than 100 others. Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said his group had carried out the attack.

5 Contrite leader: Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte expressed regret Tuesday over his “son of a bitch” remark while referring to President Obama, in a rare display of contrition by a politician whose wide arc of profanities has unabashedly targeted world figures including the pope and the U.N. chief. The flap over Duterte’s remarks started when a reporter asked him how he intends to explain the extrajudicial killings of drug dealers to Obama. More than 2,000 suspected drug dealers and users have been killed since Duterte launched a war on drugs after taking office on June 30.

6 Myanmar protest: More than 1,000 Buddhists in a Myanmar state racked by religious and ethnic strife protested Tuesday’s arrival of former U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan, saying the Ghanaian is meddling in the country’s affairs by leading a government-appointed commission to find solutions to the conflict. The Southeast Asian country set up the commission last month to help find solutions to “protracted issues” in western Rakhine state, where human rights groups have documented widespread abuses by majority Rakhine Buddhists against minority Rohingya Muslims.

7 Baghdad bombing: A car bombing claimed by the Islamic State struck a bustling commercial area of central Baghdad overnight, killing at least 12 civilians, Iraqi officials said on Tuesday. The explosives-laden pickup truck was left in a parking lot in the Shiite-dominated district of Karradah, near a hospital and shops, police said. Up to 28 people were wounded and at least 15 cars were damaged.

Chronicle News Services