http://www.nationmultimedia.com/national/Officials-in-downstream-provinces-warned-to-prepar-30295813.html
138
13
Regional Irrigation Office 12 warned governors of Uthai Thani, Chai Nat, Sing Buri, Ang Thong, Suphan Buri, Lop Buri and Ayutthaya yesterday that the Chao Phraya River was rising and to warn riverside residents and businesses, as well as construction workers.

Meanwhile, Deputy Prime Minister General Prawit Wongsuwan instructed related government agencies to prepare water drainage plans to handle heavy rainfall in the North and the anticipated impact of runoff in downstream provinces this week.

The mayor of Nakhon Sawan’s Muang district Jittahkasem Nirojthanarat said the Chao Phraya had risen from 18 metres above mean sea level to 22 metres over the past two weeks.

Residents deemed at-risk were told to move their belongings to higher ground to avoid damage. If the river rose by another metre, municipal officials would close all pipes to prevent floodwater oozing back into the city.

Phetchabun’s Muang district also saw municipal officials piling up sandbag barriers to protect economic zones, while soldiers helped residents to move their belongings to higher ground as rainfall continued. The Pasak River was swelling with overflows already into some riverside communities.

Bangkok reported heavy rainfall yesterday morning with Sai Mai district’s Soi Annex having the highest amount at 80.5 millimetres, followed by Klong Phraya Suren in the same district at 71mm, then Klong Sam Wa district at 58.5mm and Huai Khwang’s Klong Samsen pump station at 55mm.

In Tha Song Yang district in Tak on the northwest border, provincial governor Charoenrit Sanguansak yesterday visited Ban Mae Salid Luang village in Tambon Mae Song, which was hit by a pre-dawn flash flood, to provide relief bags. One house was destroyed and two homes partly damaged, while two bridges and two check dams were severely eroded.

Ban Mae Salid Luang Wittaya School was reported to have suffered damage of about Bt2 million. Some residents and boarding students plus teachers had been evacuated to a local temple.

