http://newsday.co.tt/crime_and_court/0,231935.html
190
19
A d v e r t i s e m e n t

Security guard shot dead

By STACY MOORE Monday, August 15 2016

AN ONGOING war between residents of Lyon Drive and Mandela Drive in Carapichaima is believed to be linked to the murder of father of three Rodney Joseph.

The 40-year-old security officer was shot dead minutes after leaving his Lyon Drive, Orange Field Road home yesterday morning.



Joseph who worked at Guardsman Security Services died on the spot after being shot multiple times. The incident took place in close proximity to a church not too far from Joseph’s home.



According to police reports, at about 5 am, Joseph was walking along the Orange Field Road when a white vehicle pulled up along side him.



Reports are that three men alighted from the vehicle and began shooting. When the security officer slumped to the ground, the gunmen drove off.



Yesterday, when Newsday visited Lyon Drive, frustrated residents said they have been living in fear for the past three years as threats have been made on their lives.



“It was only a matter of time before someone ended up dead.



These people are even shooting at women who are walking with children.



These men are shooting at people in their cars. They don’t care and now my husband is now dead,” cried Joseph’s wife Neisha Richards.



The emotional woman claimed that for years residents have complained to police officers of the Freeport Police Station of the problems they face on a daily basis, but the she said their complains have continuously fallen on deaf ears.



“If you go in the police station, you will see how many reports there are from residents of Lyon’s Drive, but no one takes us seriously and now a father was taken away from his three children,” she cried.



The ongoing war started three years ago following an altercation between two residents after a J’ouvert celebrations. “Since that it has been war here, you are afraid to walk the streets because residents from that other street are looking at you. We feel just like how the residents of Enterprise area are feeling but noone cares about us here,” she explained.



Minutes before her husband was gunned down Richards said that she was walking along side him towards the main road but was forced to return home when she heard the cries of their youngest daughter, two-year-old Amani.



“When Amani started to cry, I rushed back home and in that short space of time my husband was killed.



I don’t know if Amani heard the gunshot but when I reached home she told me ‘Mummy they shoot daddy’. I hugged her tight saying please doh say that baby,” the tearful mother said.



“These people have no respect for anyone and maybe the police are waiting for more bodies to drop before they do something.



This what is going on has to stop, I want justice for my husband’s death,” Richards cried. Joseph was described as a hard working father. An autopsy is expected to be performed today. Homicide Bureau region III are continuing investigations.



