http://www.philstar.com/headlines/2016/08/16/1613963/cops-say-ecstasy-seized-directly-radio-dj
190
19
MANILA, Philippines - Police confirmed yesterday that arresting officers seized illegal drugs from FM radio station disc jockey Karen Bordador, who was arrested together with her boyfriend during a drug sting at a condominium in Pasig City over the weekend.

Chief Insp. Kimberly Molitas, spokesperson for the National Capital Region Police Office (NCRPO), said one of the arresting police officers confirmed that they recovered several Ecstasy tablets directly from Bordador, 31, who insisted she is not a drug pusher and was only visiting the condominium unit of her boyfriend Emilio Lim, 32, last Saturday night.

Lim and Bordador were arrested at his unit at the Skyway Twin Towers condominium in Pasig City.

Molitas said undercover police officers set up the deal with Lim and recovered the drugs at the suspect’s condominium unit.

Senior Insp. Wilfredo Sangel, head of the Southern Police District (SPD) Anti-Illegal Drugs unit, said the 500 tablets seized from Lim and Bordador all tested positive as ecstacy with a street value of P2 million.

Also seized during the raid conducted by the SPD and the Pasig City police were dried marijuana leaves and marijuana resin.

Headlines ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1

Police release the mug shots of Emilio Lim and his girlfriend Karen Bordador yesterday. Police release the mug shots of Emilio Lim and his girlfriend Karen Bordador yesterday.

Sangel said prior to the arrests, the suspects were the subject of a surveillance operation for almost three weeks.

He said charges for illegal possession and trafficking of drugs were filed yesterday against Lim, Bordador and another suspect, Evan Reanald Baylon, 36.

Police operatives first arrested Baylon at the Palace Pool Club shortly after he received P8,000 from an undercover police officer in exchange for eight tablets of the party drug ecstasy. Police officers seized 10 more brown tablets, suspected to be ecstasy.

Baylon later identified Lim as the source of the tablets.

He said all three arrested suspects have not given police any additional information as to who their buyers or regular customers are. The three have also refused to reveal their other drug trade contacts, Sangel said.

“They have been advised by their lawyers to remain silent. But we know that they are supplying these party drugs to bars and clubs in Makati, at the BGC and at Libis,” said Sangel.

Sangel said with the arrests of the three, the SPD would be intensifying its operations in clubs at the BGC.

These operations, Sangel said, would include undercover police officers who will not only conduct surveillance, but will also act as poseur-buyers in sting operations.