https://angloamerica101.wordpress.com/2016/08/14/london-on-imam-calls-on-muslims-not-to-apologize-for-foiled-suicide-attack/
193
19
Mazin AbdulAdhim, a prominent Imam of Iraqi descent in London, Ontario who is affiliated with the radical Islamic global movement of Hizb ut-Tahrir, says in reference to ISIS foiled suicide attack west of London on August 10, 2016, that Muslims should not feel pressured to apologize for actions that they are not responsible for. He maintained that the “crimes against humanity” committed by the West are far more worse than the attacks carried out by individuals.

The following are excerpts from Mazin AbdulAdhim’s Facebook posting on August 11, 2016:

“Aaron Driver, a Muslim convert from my city, was killed in a confrontation with the RCMP yesterday. They allege that he detonated a device inside a taxi, hurting himself and someone else, and was shot when he tried to detonate another one. “It is important to not jump to conclusions about this information until details are made clear. The media clearly has a campaign against Islam and Muslims, and so we should be careful how we respond to news like this. “Even if the information is true, we must not allow these sorts of events to cause us to be pressured to apologize for actions that we are not responsible for, nor should this cause us to become afraid of speaking the truth. “The governments of the West kill and help kill dozens of innocent civilians every day, and the crimes they have committed against humanity through their foreign policies are orders of magnitude worse than anything these individuals have committed or tried to commit.”

Mazin AbdulAdhim encouraged Muslims to wake up from the illusion that the Western governments represent them, to disavow democracy, to follow the true teachings of Islam, and to work together for re-establishing the Islamic State – the Caliphate. In a Facebook posting dealing with the aftermath of the massacre of 50 people at Orlando gay club carried by American Muslim (June 12, 2016), AbdulAdhim wrote among other things the following:

It’s amazing that Muslims think that any amount of explaining will make the growing anti-Islam sentiment go away…

It’s amazing that Muslims still have not grasped the fact that Capitalism – including its media – views Islam as a threat and a competitor to its interests in the Muslim lands, and an alternative system that could quickly end Capitalism’s global influence.

It’s amazing that Muslims still demand justice from a system that has killed literally millions of their own people, and continuously kills more every single day.

It’s amazing that Muslims expect justice from governments that have never provided justice to 3rd world nations, rather they only fund tyrants and prop up and protect murderous, despot regimes.

It’s amazing that Muslims still have not absorbed the fact that this is not our system, these are not our laws, and these are not our governments. This system does not represent us, and it will not protect us if those behind it decide that we are no longer worth protecting.

It’s amazing that Muslims continuously ignore the fact that our Creator gave us our own system and obligated it upon us, and He will never allow us to solve these countless problems we face today until we return to His system that He ordained for us in His final message…

We are the ones who have turned away from the systems revealed by Allah (swt), and look at this most miserable life we live, constantly apologizing, lacking in dignity, and never having proper representation of the proper implementation of Islam.

And we are the ones who have caused the spread of corruption throughout the land and the sea, since we abandoned our positions in implementing Islam on the political level, andleft those positions for the worst of humanity to occupy.

Stop apologizing, stop making excuses, and stop expecting things to get better within this system. There is only one solution, and you all know what it is…

We will not have protection until we return to this protective shield that Allah (swt) gave us. Until then, enjoy begging the media for mercy – and you will find none.

Few months ago AbdulAdhim slammed the Western media for its “biased” coverage of ISIS attacks in Brussels, Belgium.

“The media in the world today belongs to the colonialist West. Only their people’s lives have a value to it, only their property have a value to them, and only their lands should be protected and immune to attack,”wrote Mazin AbdulAdhim on his Facebook page on March 23, 2016.

He added, “Muslims can be bombed daily, and thousands can die daily, and a thousand airports can be turned to rubble, and it wouldn’t matter to the global media, because the colonialists own every major media outlet globally, and Muslims are nothing more than rebellious slaves – and an opponent and an enemy – to the colonialists, and neither a friend nor an ally.”

“Let’s not act like this attack in Brussels is any worse than the tens of attacks on civilian targets perpetrated by the colonialist West every month,” Mazin AbdulAdhim concluded.

Terrorist’s last message mocks Trudeau, emphasizes: “We are thirsty for your blood”

In a press conference (August 11, 2016), the RCMP presented a martyrdom video clip featuring 24-year-old convert to Islam Aaron Driver’s last message before heading to his suicide bombing mission. Driver, who pledged allegiance to the Islamic State [a.k.a. IS, ISIS, ISIL, Daesh, Caliphate], announced his plan to commit a jihadist attack in Canada, responding to the call of the Caliph, or the supreme leader of ISIS, to launch jihad in the lands of the disbelievers. He mocked Prime Minister Justin Trudeau for believing that “running away” from the battle against ISIS in Iraq and Syria will protect Canada from the jihad.