http://tribune.com.pk/story/1164990/afghan-peace-process-kabul-not-opposed-chinese-role-says-envoy/
190
19
Beijin­g can play a positi­ve role, says Afghan Ambass­ador Zakhil­wal

ISLAMABAD: Kabul does not oppose China’s role in Afghan peace process, Afghan Ambassador in Islamabad Dr Omar Zakhilwal told The Express Tribune on Wednesday.

“China can play a positive role because of its good relations with both Afghanistan and Pakistan. China’s security and economic interest in this region goes in line with Afghanistan’s aspirations for the region. We, therefore, are not opposed to China’s role,” the ambassador replied when asked about Beijing’s possible role in the peace talks.

China offers to ‘host’ Afghan peace talks

“Afghanistan removed pre-conditions for peace talks in the quadrilateral group, but the Taliban rejected the talks and launched the Spring Offensive. They have killed hundreds of innocent people in some of the deadliest terrorist bombings … most notably in their April 19 suicide bombing in Kabul. This was Taliban’s message that they do not intend to talk. President Ghani has not closed the doors but said the government will give a befitting response to the attacks,” he said.

About the construction of gate at Torkham, he said the gate at the crossing point should have been built in consultations with Afghanistan in accordance with the more than century-old protocol.

He disagreed when asked Terming the hostilities that occurred in June this year unfortunate, he said: “The gate was not built at its previous location … this is a new development.”

When his attention was drawn to the presence of Pakistan-based Taliban militants, who carry out attacks in Pakistan, he said it was not the policy of the Afghan government to support the TTP or any such militant group that threatened Pakistan’s security. He said Afghan forces were coordinating operations with the Coalition forces against militants.

“Afghan forces provided ground support to the US aerial strikes against Hafiz Saeed Khan, the Da’ish leader, last month. Another TTP leader, Umar Narai, was also eliminated with the support of Afghan forces,” the Afghan ambassador said.

Kabul set to launch efforts to ‘isolate’ Pakistan

When asked to comment why the Afghan government did not give a positive response to the visit of Taliban negotiators to Pakistan in April, Dr Zakhilwal said there were “no indications of peace talks when (not all but) some Taliban leaders visited Islamabad”.

“I had contacted the Pakistani authorities about the objectives of the Taliban delegation but I did not receive any indication that the visit was for peace talks. Kabul was not in the loop before or after the visit,” he said.

“In fact, the arrival of the Taliban within a week of the deadly April 19 suicide bombing in Kabul for which they took responsibility was a clear indication they did not intend to hold talks,” the Afghan envoy insisted.

Published in The Express Tribune, August 18th, 2016.

Read full story