http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2016/10/10/world/middleeast/syria-war-aleppo-bombing-siege-battle-new-low.html
190
19
Syrian and Russian airstrikes on rebel-held areas of Aleppo were suspended Tuesday following a monthlong bombing campaign. Access to the area has been cut, trapping 275,000 civilians, according to the United Nations.

Abdalrhman Ismail/Reuters

Russian officials say the suspension of airstrikes is the first step in a plan to allow militants and civilians to leave the city later this week.

More than 370 people have been killed and more than 1,200 wounded, the United Nations says, since the collapse of a brief cease-fire last month. Bakeries, schools and hospitals have been attacked.

Aleppo, Sept. 18, 2016 Sept. 25, 2016 Five houses Eight houses Craters Five houses Eight houses Craters Satellite images by DigitalGlobe. | Source: Analysis by UNITAR-UNOSAT.

Before the war, Aleppo was Syria’s largest city, with a population of two million.

The eastern part of the city is the largest and most fortified rebel stronghold the government has sought to retake using this strategy of siege and bombardment. It is also the rebels’ last stronghold in a major city, and it has been closed off by government forces and their allies more than two months.

Government GAINS SINCE SEpt. 19 Rebel control KurdisH Control Area under siege Rebel control Government Control Aleppo 7.5 miles 12km Aleppo Citadel Aleppo International Airport Aleppo SYRIA Damascus Government GAINS SINCE SEpt. 19 KurdisH Control Rebel control Government Control Aleppo 7.5 miles 12km Aleppo Citadel Area under siege Aleppo SYRIA Damascus Government GAINS SINCE SEpt. 19 Rebel control KurdisH Control Area under siege Rebel control Government Control Aleppo 7.5 miles 12km Aleppo Citadel Aleppo International Airport Aleppo SYRIA Damascus Source: IHS Conflict Monitor (areas of control are as of Oct. 17)

Witness reports, photographs and videos show entire buildings demolished by airstrikes with residents inside, while ground forces, including a number of foreign militias, have pushed into the city.

The airstrikes have included powerful bunker-buster bombs that reach down into basement shelters and destroy underground water pipes.

In Two Weeks, At Least 261 Civilians Were Killed in 100 Airstrikes 2 killed 19 killed 27 killed 58 killed 56 killed 43 killed 17 killed 33 killed 3 killed 1 killed 1 killed 1 killed Sources: IHS Conflict Monitor (airstrikes); Violations Documentation Center in Syria (civilians killed).

In many cases a second round of strikes will target ambulances and rescue workers after an attack, often halting or delaying the search for victims in the rubble.

Aleppo Media Center

Videos posted online by activists appeared to corroborate accusations that Russian and Syrian planes have been dropping cluster munitions in residential areas. These bombs indiscriminately disperse bomblets across hundreds of yards.

Some children have turned bomb craters into swimming pools.

Aleppo Media Center, via Associated Press

The World Health Organization reported that nearly 100 children were killed in the last week of September alone. They were among at least 1,000 civilians killed by airstrikes in Aleppo this year.

Some of the most densely populated areas have been hit.

Approximate frontlines GOVERNMENT CONTROL OLD CITY Great Umayyad Mosque Aleppo Citadel rebel CONTROL AREAS UNDER SIEGE Approximate frontlines GOVERNMENT CONTROL Great Umayyad Mosque Aleppo Citadel rebel CONTROL under siege Source: IHS Conflict Monitor (areas of control are as of Oct. 10); satellite photograph by Google.

Aleppo is one the world’s oldest cities. Parts of its Old City have been designated a world heritage site by The United Nations. Some of the front lines are right next door.

Dimitar Dilkoff/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images

The Great Umayyad Mosque is being used as a military garrison. Its 1,000-year-old minaret was destroyed in 2013.

Georges Ourfalian/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images

The ancient citadel was also damaged.

Abdalrhman Ismail/Reuters

The Syrian government issued a statement earlier this month demanding that rebels in eastern Aleppo surrender and leave with their families, while rebel groups called for a general mobilization.