http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/mumbai-on-highest-alert-after-school-kids-spot-men-with-arms-near-naval-dump/1/770681.html
190
19
The Indian Navy has been put on the highest alert in Mumbai after a few school children spotted suspicious men near the Uran naval base.

TV reports said two children saw at least four men in black clothes carrying arms near the ammunition dump in Uran, 50 km from Mumbai.

READ: Nervous Pakistan braces for 'Indian response'; many flights cancelled, highways shut for fighter jets



The children reported the matter to the police, which in turn notified the Navy. The mandate of the Navy is limited when it comes to land, but coastal areas are being checked.



The Navy has issued a State 1 alert, which is the highest alert within the forces. Naval warship INS Abhimanyu is close to Uran.

READ: Isolated Pakistan gets an earful from US: Act on Uri terrorists



The Navy said at around 11 am today, school children saw four men in pathan suit, talking to each other in a different language. They were spotted near Karanja island, which is about eight miles away from naval base, Abhimanyu.

Sources said the school children heard two words repeatedly: "ONGC" and "school". The ONGC has offshore installations close to the area.

Security has been beefed up at Mumbai's sensitive locations along the coast, including the iconic Gateway of India, the Raj Bhawan, Bombay High, the Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, and other major establishments near the sea.

READ: Uri attack: Parrikar seeks report from Army on how terrorists managed to infiltrate camp



Defence sources told India Today TV that all the agencies including the Anti-Terror Squad and the intelligence have been alerted. Meanwhile, a team of NSG stationed in Navi Mumbai is on stand by. They have no role to play in the ongoing combing operation.



The alert came amid heightened tension between India and Pakistan over the Uri army camp attack last week, in which 18 Indian soldiers were killed by suspected Pakistani terrorists.





WATCH:

ALSO READ:

Has India already avenged Uri by killing 20 Pakistani terrorists in PoK?

Uri attack: Terrorists deleted GPS logs, used matrix codes to evade location

Uri attack: Bangladesh slams Pakistan, says will stand by India

Jaish-e-Mohammed leader Masood Azhar among 3 Pakistanis India believes are behind the Uri attack

Exclusive: Has the Punjab Police learnt no lessons from terror attacks in Uri and Pathankot?