http://www.dailymail.co.uk/debate/article-3799335/The-pen-pushers-blight-heroes-lives.html
193
19
When Phil Shiner’s ambulance-chasing law firm ceased trading last month, the Mail hoped this was the end of hounding British soldiers over their conduct in the heat of battle more than a decade ago. But still their ordeal drags on.

As Sergeant Alexander Blackman languishes in jail, still waiting to hear if he can appeal against his murder conviction, three more soldiers face prosecution over the drowning of an Iraqi 13 years ago – despite being cleared in 2006, after a three-year inquiry.

Meanwhile, the Iraq Historic Allegations Team plods through a backlog of some 1,500 cases – more than 1,000 of them brought by Mr Shiner’s utterly discredited Public Interest Lawyers.

Sergeant Alexander Blackman (pictured) is still languishing in jail after being convicted of murdering a Taliban insurgent in Afghanistan

As for IHAT’s ruthless methods, yesterday it emerged its investigators humiliated a female captain in a dawn raid on her home, simply because she would not testify against an ex-colleague.

Indeed, so appalling is our treatment of the heroes who risk their lives for us that a decorated major embroiled in the drowning case has volunteered to face a war crimes trial in the Hague, rather than endure more delays in his own country.

This is why the Mail welcomes Theresa May’s warning that IHAT must act with all speed to reject vexatious cases which blight soldiers’ lives.

What is so gut-wrenchingly galling is that if, God forbid, there’s another war, it won’t be these procrastinating lawyers, judges and Whitehall top brass laying down their lives for Britain.

Indeed, after all these years, shouldn’t Mrs May go further – and close down IHAT altogether? How can justice so long delayed be anything but justice denied?

Wrong again, George

As part of Project Fear, George Osborne predicted that a Brexit vote would knock 10 to 18 per cent off house prices by 2018. He could hardly have been wider of the mark.

In reality, average prices have risen since the vote, while experts say they will keep going up for at least five years.

George Osborne (pictured) was the chief architect behind Project Fear, which failed so spectacularly to stop Brexit

At the top end of the market, however, the sacked chancellor’s predictions of a slowdown have indeed come true.

Just one problem. The decline has been caused not by Brexit but by the swingeing stamp duty increases introduced in December 2014 … by a certain George Gideon Oliver Osborne.

Indeed, so damaging was his tax grab that the Treasury’s receipts from stamp duty actually fell last year by £531million.

Last week, when Mr Osborne offered patronising tips to Mrs May on how to do her job, this paper respectfully recommended a period of chastened silence from the calamitously out-of-touch architect of Project Fear.

Today, as we urge Philip Hammond to reverse his predecessor’s stamp duty increases, we repeat: zip it, George.

■ In an uncompromising speech to the UN, Mrs May commendably pledges to tackle the migration crisis at its root, focusing aid on improving conditions as close to migrants’ homes as safety allows. This is surely the most humane way forward – as much for displaced peoples and the post-war health of their homelands as for Britain and Europe, struggling with unmanageable numbers. For once, this could be aid well spent.