https://lobotero.com/tag/world-affairs/
203
20
I have been lax on my attention to the Middle East and I have no excuse other than the damn silly election is just too moronic to ignore…I tried…but I was weak….I hope to rectify my oversight.

As a student of international relations I am always looking at the US and its policies…..none of which bode well for the future…..

Because of its rush to war it is creating a world that all reason has vanished….

Based on US war policy, Russia factors in as the biggest and most important player in the strategic realignment with its insistence of a “multi-polar” world.

As the United States squanders the enormous good will and respect it once had by marching forward on the tired legs of a dying empire, the U.S.’ enemies-of-its-own-making are beginning to forge new alliances that might not have been a reality had the U.S. at the very least pursued a strategy of positive reinforcement and cooperation as opposed to a policy of tension, pillage, and war. The first major crack in the iron curtain of the Anglo-American world hegemon started becoming apparent with the emergence of the U.S. destabilization and proxy war against Syria. While the NATO/American proxy war has left hundreds of thousands of Syrians dead, hundreds of thousands more displaced, and destroyed much of the Syrian infrastructure as well as crippled the Syrian economy, another result of American policy in Syria is that it has strengthened and even created alliances that otherwise may not have existed not only between Middle Eastern countries but European, Asian, and African nations as well.

Source: U.S. War Policy Has Created The Multi-polar World

When this election is completed we will have a brand new president…..and that carries significant weight in the world….but how will this country use this new chance at calming and ever hectic world?

Hint: Bombs are NOT the way!

Global Research has touched on what it calls “the invisible government”……

In 1929, he, Edward Bernays, persuaded feminists to promote cigarettes for women by smoking in the New York Easter Parade – behaviour then considered outlandish. One feminist, Ruth Booth, declared, “Women! Light another torch of freedom! Fight another sex taboo!” Bernays’ influence extended far beyond advertising. His greatest success was his role in convincing the American public to join the slaughter of the First World War. The secret, he said, was “engineering the consent” of people in order to “control and regiment [them] according to our will without their knowing about it”. He described this as “the true ruling power in our society” and called it an “invisible government”.

Source: Inside the Invisible Government: War, Propaganda, Clinton and Trump | Global Research – Centre for Research on Globalization

It will be fascinating to see how the “invisible government” will generate support for whatever tact the new president chooses…..will we continue our rush to war or will we find a calmer and compassionate way of dealing with the world?

My guess is if Clinton wins then the RUSH is on!