http://www.clarionproject.org/news/6-stories-speak-volumes-about-turkey-now
202
20
While ISIS continues suicide attacks, a Turkish gov’t consultant calls a German MP a whore and journalists are threatened with rape by police.

Oktay Saral, a prominent consultant of Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan and former Islamist AK Party MP, called a German MP a whore on Twitter for acknowledging the Armenian genocide perpetrated by the Ottoman government. He is shown here punching a fellow MP in parliament. (Photo: Video screenshot)

ISIS Blamed for Bomb Attack on Wedding Party That Kills 50

The Islamic State was blamed for a bomb attack on a wedding in Turkey August 20 that claimed at least 50 lives and injured close to 100. The suicide attack targeted guests who were attending a Kurdish wedding as they were dancing in the streets. The attack occurred in the city of Gaziantep, located near the Syrian border, a location known to have been infiltrated by Islamic State cells.

Islamists Harass Asian Tourists as Infidels

Also in Gaziantep, locals targeted a group of Asian tourists, chasing them down the streets and yelling at them, “You are converting Muslims to Christianity! Kafirs (infidels)! Get out of here.” Turkish police reportedly detained the tourists, prompting one Korean reporter to tweet: I’ve never seen such treatment in any country before.

Prize-Winning Novelist Arrested by Turkish Court

Asli Erdogan, a prize-winning Turkish novelist was arrested on suspicion of ties to Kurdish militants. Erdogan was detained alone with more than two dozen staff members of the Kurdish newspaper Ozgur Gundem. Turkish special forces stormed the newspaper’s offices as part of a widespread purge under way by Turkey’s Islamist government after a failed coup attempt July 15.

Erdogan is a member of the newspaper’s advisory board and is held on charges of "membership of terrorist organization" and "undermining national unity."

Police Reportedly Threaten Journalist With Rape

Gulfem Karatas, a reporter from the Turkish outlet IMC TV, who was taken into police custody in a raid to the Kurdish paper Ozgur Gundem on August 16, said she was battered and threatened with rape by police while in detention. “They called us ‘traitors, prostitutes, Armenian sperms, Jewish sperms’,” said Karatas, who received a doctor’s report confirming the battering.

Erdogan’s Key Adviser Calls German MP ‘Whore’

Oktay Saral, a prominent consultant of Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan, targeted Cem Ozdemir, a German MP of Turkish origin, on his Twitter account, writing: “Crypto (hidden Christian) parasite at the Bellevue Palace. You have a leash around your neck. German prostitute; hey you, ignoble whore! We will deal with you!”

Ozdemir initiated a resolution in the German parliament to formally classify the 1915 Armenian massacre perpetrated by the Ottoman government (present-day Turkey) as genocide. The resolution passed June 2, 2016.

Saral also posted Ozdemir’s photo along with called Selahattin Demirtas, who he also called a whore. Demirtas is the co-head of the pro-Kurdish People’s Democratic Party (HDP).

Saral also threatened Ozdemir and Demirtas, writing:

“The curtains will be torn

The biters will be bit

Their accounts will be settled

Their punishments will be given

They will be killed.”

Saral is a former Turkish MP of the ruling AK Party government. He is known for having punched five MPs (see video) of the opposition parties, the HDP and CHP, in February, 2015.

Billboard in Istanbul Airport Warns Travelers That Sweden Is Rape Capital

A huge advertisement in Istanbul’s Ataturk’s airport reads: "Travel warning! Do you know that Sweden has the highest rape rate worldwide?" The billboard, located along a moving walkway in a departures section, is assumed to part of an on-going media war between Ankara and Stockholm.

After Turkey cancelled a law prohibiting sex with children under 15 (and asked parliament to write new legislation), Sweden’s Foreign Minister Margot Wallstrom tweeted, "(The) Turkish decision to allow sex with children under 15 must be reversed. Children need more protection, not less, against violence, sex abuse."

Next to the billboard could be seen the headlines of Gunes, a pro-government newspaper, that read, “Rape country Sweden.”

Stay informed! Get our free newsletter

Since Sweden’s decision to become a multicultural society in 1975, Sweden’s rate of rape increased 1,472 percent (using 2014 statistics). It is now second only to Lesotho in Africa regarding its rate of rape.