http://www.sfgate.com/nation/article/Hate-crimes-against-Muslims-soar-researchers-find-9229555.php
202
20
Hate crimes against Muslims soar, researchers find

Photo: CHRISTOPHER LEE, NYT Image 1 of / 1 Caption Close Image 1 of 1 Mourners gather in New York City last month for the funeral of Imam Maulana Alauddin Akonjee, who was shot with an associate after leaving a mosque. Mourners gather in New York City last month for the funeral of Imam Maulana Alauddin Akonjee, who was shot with an associate after leaving a mosque. Photo: CHRISTOPHER LEE, NYT Hate crimes against Muslims soar, researchers find 1 / 1 Back to Gallery

WASHINGTON — Hate crimes against American Muslims have soared to their highest levels since the aftermath of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, according to data compiled by researchers, an increase apparently fueled by terrorist attacks in the United States and abroad and by divisive language on the campaign trail.

The trend has alarmed hate crime scholars and law-enforcement officials, who have documented hundreds of attacks — including arsons at mosques, assaults, shootings and threats of violence — since the beginning of 2015.

While the most current hate crime statistics from the FBI are not expected until November, new data from researchers at Cal State San Bernardino found that hate crimes against American Muslims were up 78 percent over the course of 2015. Attacks on those perceived as Arab rose even more sharply.

Police and media reports in recent months have indicated a continued flow of attacks, often against victims wearing traditional Muslim garb or seen as Middle Eastern.

Some scholars believe the violent backlash against American Muslims is driven not only by the string of terrorist attacks in Europe and the United States that began early last year, but also by the political vitriol from candidates like Donald Trump, who has called for a ban on immigration by Muslims and a national registry of Muslims in the United States.

“We’re seeing these stereotypes and derogative statements become part of the political discourse,” said Brian Levin, director of the Center for the Study of Hate and Extremism at the San Bernardino campus. “The bottom line is we’re talking about a significant increase in these types of hate crimes.”

He said the frequency of anti-Muslim violence appeared to have increased immediately after some of Trump’s most incendiary comments.

The latest major episode of anti-Muslim violence came last weekend, when an arsonist on a motorcycle started a fire that engulfed the Islamic Center of Fort Pierce, Fla., where Omar Mateen — the gunman in the June massacre at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando — had sometimes prayed.