http://www.beaufortobserver.net/Blog-3931.112112-11297.112112-ISIS-child-suicide-bomber-kills-50-at-Turkey-wedding.html
202
20


FINE PRINT: This is a public forum offered as a service to our readers. Postings are not edited without approval by the author and do not necessarily represent the views of the staff, management, owners or advertisers of the Beaufort Observer. We will not knowingly publish anything that is libelous, profane, vulgar, or presented as fact without supporting documentation. This is primarily a forum for opinion and readers should be aware of that. NOTE: you can offer Feedback to a post by clicking on its title. To read Feedback click on the little bubble below if there is any.

Pin It Tweet 'ISIS child suicide bomber' kills 50 at Turkey wedding August 21, 2016 | 12:14 PM



"A suspected Islamic State child suicide bomber massacred at least 50 wedding guests dancing in a Turkey street.



President Tayyip Erdogan blamed the murders on Islamic State and said the killer, who wore an explosive belt, was between the ages of 12 and 14."



http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/isis-child-suicide-bomber-kills-8674714



ISIS said they would have their people mixed in with the refugees. Obama said we have nothing to fear from the women and children that are coming from children coming from areas where ISIS is training and fighting. Hmmm..............

"A suspected Islamic State child suicide bomber massacred at least 50 wedding guests dancing in a Turkey street.President Tayyip Erdogan blamed the murders on Islamic State and said the killer, who wore an explosive belt, was between the ages of 12 and 14."ISIS said they would have their people mixed in with the refugees. Obama said we have nothing to fear from the women and children that are coming from children coming from areas where ISIS is training and fighting. Hmmm..............





Property Tax Maps

Donate Beaufort Observer with a donation to help defray expenses or to make a contribution to one of our columnists.



Please consider supporting thewith a donation to help defray expenses or to make a contribution to one of our columnists.

To designate a particular recipient of your donation please include or email instructions to: To designate a particular recipient of your donation please include or email instructions to: webeditor@beaufortobserver.net We appreciate your support.

US Flag

