http://www.express.co.uk/showbiz/tv-radio/697364/CBB-2016-Christopher-Biggins-REMOVED-biphobic-AIDS-remarks-Channel-5
130
13
In scenes broadcast in tonight’s episode of the Channel 5 reality series, audiences witnessed a conversation between the 67-year-old and Mob Wives star Renee Graziano in the bedroom in which they discussed AIDS. Biggins was heard telling her that AIDS was a “bisexual disease”, before going on to say that he thought that it was used to “kill off gays”. He then went on to say that it was a disease that was “man made”, before the US reality TV star chipped in. Renee responded, saying: “According to this man who worked for the CIA - no names mentioned - he used to come by my house and visit.”

She continued: “He told us - and the reason he told us was because he was working on a movie - that it was to be for third world countries to make them small and get rid of them and then it started coming over here. “And I don’t think they didn’t know what they had done as usual and they had to blame it on somebody.” Biggins then said: “What they didn’t realise is that there were a lot of bisexuals who went to those countries and had sex with those people and brought it back to their own families in America.

CHANNEL 5 Christopher Biggins is ejected from the house

CHANNEL 5 He was shocked by the news

What they didn’t realise is that there were a lot of bisexuals who went to those countries and had sex with those people and brought it back to their own families in America Christopher Biggins

“That’s how it became such a worldwide disease. So what happened was, the government - whoever instigated it, f***ed up big time.” Soon after the conversation, Biggins was called into the Diary Room, where he was told that he was being removed from the house. Along with the biphobic remarks, Big Brother also informed Biggins that he had made offensive comments during a conversation with former X Factor star Katie Waissel when she had said that she was not in the house to “represent the Jewish community”. Upon hearing the news that he was departing, Biggins told Big Brother: “I am very sorry and I am very sad.” He was then asked to leave the house, while EastEnders star Ricky Norwood and radio DJ James Whale packed his bags for him.

CHANNEL 5 Biggins expressed his sadness at leaving

CHANNEL 5 Biggins was previously as a favourite to win

Celebrity Big Brother's controversial moments Tue, July 26, 2016 Here are the reasons why we can't stop watching Celebrity Big Brother. Play slideshow Channel 5 1 of 18 Christopher Biggins axed from Celebrity Big Brother after 'Nazi joke'