http://thezimbabwemail.com/main-news-5963-mdc-t-slams-civil-servants-ban-shame.html
133
13
THE opposition MDC-T has challenged President Robert Mugabe and his government to call it a day after scrapping the payment of bonuses to civil servants.

Reacting to finance minister Patrick Chinamasa’s move to scrap the 13th cheque for 2015 and 2016, MDC spokesperson Obert Gutu said the ruling party has “finally realised that they can rig elections but they can’t rig the economy”.

“Chinamasa has finally realised that his government is clueless on how to govern the country,” said Gutu.

“They stole elections in 2013 thinking that they can do the same with the economy but this has failed. The only option for this clueless government is to resign and let those who are able to lead the country do so.

“The Zanu PF regime should simply admit that the wheels have now completely come off the fragile and comatose economy. It shows that Zanu PF managed to successfully rig the elections on July 31, 2013 but they have certainly failed to rig the economy.

“The Zanu PF regime is bankrupt and it is just a matter of time before they completely fail to pay civil servants their salaries. The chickens are coming home to roost.”

In announcing the decision to scrap the bonuses, the Finance minister said the cash-strapped government is failing to raise enough money to fund state operations due to dwindling revenue base.

Since the 2013 elections, the country’s economy has, critics say, been on a free fall with companies closing at alarming rate.

Last year government struggled to pay bonuses to its workers and, in some cases, had to stagger the payment of salaries.

Gutu said government should first remove thousands of ghost workers who populate the bloated civil service.

“Most, if not all of these ghost workers, are Zanu PF operatives who were employed as ward and village officers during the inclusive government era,” said Gutu.

“Some of the ghost workers are former Border Gezi youth brigades who are notoriously referred to as Green Bombers.”

He added: “Genuine civil servants are, in fact, very few and they deserve to be paid their annual bonuses because the majority of them are very hardworking but extremely underpaid workers.

“Chinamasa should bite the bullet and immediately freeze payment of salaries to the ghost workers.”