http://www.imra.org.il/story.php3?id=71291
202
20
Excerpts: Iran'a new Bavar 373 missile defense system.Turkey more active

Syria role.Israel responds to Hamas rocket attack. Child kills 51 at Turkish

wedding.Iraq hangs 36 re 2014 massacre, Palestinian journalist's detention

August 21, 2016



+++SOURCE: AlArabiya News 21 Aug.’16:”Iran releases new missile defense

system images:,byAgence France Presse

SUBJECT: Iran’s new Bavar 373 missile defense system



QUOTE:”Iran's new Bavar 373 missile defence system was designed to match the

Russian S-300 system, pictured, that was suspended while international

sanctions were in place.”



FULL TEXT:imra@netvision.net.ilIran released images of its first

domestically built long-range missile defense system on Sunday[21 Aug.], a

project started when the country was under international sanctions.



Images released on multiple state news agencies showed President Hassan

Rouhani and Minister of Defence Hossein Dehghan standing in front of the new

Bavar 373 missile defense system.



The system was designed to intercept cruise missiles, drones, combat

aircraft and ballistic missiles, according to earlier statements by Dehghan.



It was intended to match the Russian S-300 system, the delivery of which was

suspended in 2010 due to sanctions imposed over Iran’s nuclear program.



“We did not intend to make an Iranian version of the S-300 -- we wanted to

build an Iranian system, and we built it,” Dehghan told the IRNA news agency

on Saturday[20 Aug].



Rouhani said in a televised speech that Iran’s military budget had more than

doubled compared with last year.



“If we are able to discuss with world powers around the negotiating table,

it is because of our national strength, because of our national unity,” he

said.



In 2015, shortly before the conclusion of an international agreement on the

nuclear program, Moscow re-authorized the delivery of the S-300 system in a

move criticized by the United States and Israel.



Iran’s army said in May that it was now equipped with the S-300 system,

though further parts are due over the coming months.



Rouhani also unveiled the first Iranian-made fighter jet engine on Sunday[21

Aug], saying it was capable of flight at 50,000 feet.



“The Islamic republic is one of eight countries in the world who have

mastered the technology to build these engines,” the president said.



Dehghan added that Iran was now looking to develop seaborne cruise missiles

capable of supersonic speed.



In 2015, shortly before the conclusion of an international agreement on Iran’s

nuclear programme, Moscow re-authorized the delivery of the S-300 system in

a move criticized by the United States and Israel.



Iran’s army said in May that it was now equipped with the S-300 system,

though further parts are due over the coming months.



The new Bavar 373 has Iran’s first vertical launcher, using Sayad 3 missiles

that were first tested in September 2014.







+++SOURCE:AlArabiya News 21 Aug.’16:”Turkey:More active role to be taken in

Syria,by Reuters

SUBJECT:Turkey more active Syrian role



Turkey will take a more active role in addressing the conflict in Syria in

the next six months to prevent the war-torn country from being divided on

ethnic lines. (File Photo: AP)



Reuters, IstanbulSaturday, 20 August 2016





Turkey will take a more active role in addressing the conflict in Syria in

the next six months to prevent the war-torn country being divided along

ethnic lines, Turkish Prime Binali Yildirim said on Saturday.



Yildirim also told a group of reporters in Istanbul that while Syrian

President Bashar al-Assad could have a role in the interim leadership, he

must play no part in its future.



Syria’s more than five-year conflict has taken on an ethnic dimension, with

Kurdish groups carving out their own regions, and periodically battling

groups from Syria’s Arab majority whose priority is to overthrow Assad.



Turkey fears the strengthening of Kurdish militant groups in Syria will

further embolden its own Kurdish insurgency, which flared anew following the

collapse of a ceasefire between militants and the state last year.



“Turkey we will be more active in the Syria issue in the coming six months

as a regional player. This means to not allow Syria to be divided on any

ethnic base, for Turkey this is crucial,” Yildirim said.



On Friday Syrian Kurdish authorities evacuated thousands of civilians from

Kurdish areas of Hasaka following Syrian government air strikes, the Kurdish

YPG militia said.



The fighting this week in Hasaka, which is divided into zones of Kurdish and

Syrian government control, marks the most violent confrontation between the

Kurdish YPG militia and Damascus in the civil war.



It came a week after Turkey and Russia, Assad’s strongest military backer,

repaired ties following Turkey’s downing of a Russian jet late last year.



The YPG and Syrian government forces had mostly left each other to their own

devices in the conflict, during which Kurdish groups have exploited the

collapse of state control to establish autonomy across much of the country’s

north.



The Kurdish YPG militia is an integral part of the US-backed Syrian

Democratic Forces (SDF), which are at the heart of Washington’s military

campaign against ISIS and last week seized the northern town of Manbij from

the militants.



Despite the intensified military involvement of world powers, including the

former Cold War foes, Yildirim said he was optimistic that Iran, Gulf Arab

states, Russia and the United States, could work jointly to find a solution.







+++SOURCE:Naharnet(L ebanon)21 Aug.’16:”Israel Hits Hamas Targets in Gaza

after Rocket Attack”,by Agence France

SUBJECT: Israel responds to Hamas rocket attack



FULL TEXT:Israel targeted Hamas positions in the Gaza Strip by air and with

tank fire Sunday[21 Aug]



after a rocket fired from the Palestinian enclave crashed into the Israeli

city of Sderot.



Police said the rocket hit "between two buildings on a road" in Sderot,

which is less than four kilometers (2.5 miles) from Gaza, causing no

casualties.



Army spokesman Peter Lerner said Israeli forces retaliated by hitting

targets of the Palestinian Islamist movement in northern Gaza.



"In response to the rocket attack from the Gaza Strip, the IAF (Israeli air

force) and tanks targeted two Hamas posts in the northern Gaza Strip,"

Lerner said in a statement.



Palestinian health and security sources said two people were lightly wounded

by the Israeli fire.



"One of them is a 20-year-old (young man) who was hit by shrapnel in the

face," said Ashraf al-Qudra, spokesman for the Palestinian health ministry

in Hamas-controlled Gaza.



Security sources in the territory said several targets in northern Gaza were

struck by Israeli fire, and that a reservoir in Beit Hanun was destroyed.



Witnesses said a base of Hamas' military wing the Ezzedine al-Qassam

Brigades, in nearby Beit Lahya, was also hit.



Israeli media said it was the first time downtown Sderot had been hit by a

rocket from Gaza since the last war with Palestinian militants in the

territory in 2014.



On July 2, Israeli air raids hit four sites in Gaza after a rocket struck a

building in Sderot. There were no casualties in either incident.



+++SOURCE: Naharnet(Lebanon)21 Aug.’16:”Erdogan Says IS ‘Likely Perpetrator’

after ‘Child Bomber Kills 51 at Wedding:,by Agence France Presse

SUBJECT: Child kills 51 at Turkish wedding

QUOTE:Erdogan pointing the finger at the Islamic State group”

EXCERPTS:A suicide bomber as young as 12 killed at least 51 people at a

wedding in Turkey, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said Sunday[21 Aug.],

pointing the finger at the Islamic State group.



Erdogan said Saturday's [20 Aug]blast in Gaziantep near the Syria border

"was the result of a suicide bomber aged between 12 and 14 who either

detonated (the bomb) or others detonated it."



The explosion was the latest attack to rock the key NATO member in a

horrific year that has seen strikes blamed on Kurdish and Islamist militants

as well as a bloody July 15 botched coup.



The president said the Islamic State group was the "likely perpetrator" of

the bomb attack, the deadliest in 2016, that targeted a celebration attended

by many Kurds.



The remains of a suicide vest were found at the scene, the chief

prosecutor's office said Sunday[21 Aug] according to broadcaster CNN-Turk .



Erdogan told reporters the death toll was now 51 with 94 hurt in the attack.



A total of 69 people remained in hospital, with 17 in critical condition



Our country and our nation have again only one message to those who attack

us -- you will not succeed!" he said.



Prime Minister Binali Yildirim said Gaziantep would show the same spirit it

had shown in 1921, when it defeated French forces in Turkey's Independence

War which led to the word Gazi (war hero) being added to its original name

of Antep.



"Our grief is great, but be sure our unity and togetherness will defeat all

these diabolic attacks," he said.



World leaders quickly condemned the attack, with President Francois Hollande

denouncing the "vile" incident and pledging that France "stands with all who

fight against the scourge of terrorism."



U.S. ambassador to Turkey John Bass condemned the "barbaric attack on

innocent civilians", adding that Washington would "continue to work closely

together to defeat the common threat of terrorism."



The pope called on faithful to pray for the victims while Chancellor Angela

Merkel condemned the "cowardly and underhand" attack "in the strongest

terms."



- Hub for Syrians -



A major city just 60 kilometers (37 miles) north of the Syrian border,

Gaziantep has become a hub for Syrians fleeing the civil war in their

country.



But as well as refugees and opposition activists, there have long been fears

it was home to a significant jihadist presence.



IS suicide bombers have carried out several attacks in Istanbul this year,

while Kurdish militants have hit targets in both Ankara and Istanbul.



On Thursday, 12 people were killed in three bombings blamed on the PKK, who

Erdogan said had killed 70 members of the security forces in the last month

alone.



The blast in Gaziantep came just hours after Yildirim said Ankara would play

a "more active" role in efforts to solve the Syrian civil war.



Turkey was long accused of turning a blind eye to or even abetting the rise

of IS in Syria, claims it vehemently denies. But Ankara has taken a tougher

line since the start of jihadist attacks on its soil.





+++SOURCE:Naharnet (Lebanon)21 Aug.’16 :”Iraq Hangs 36 over 2014 Massacre of

Recruits”, by Agence France Presse

SUBJECT: Iraq hangs36 re 2014 massacre



FULL TEXT:Iraq on Sunday[21 Aug] hanged 36 men convicted over the 2014

massacre by Sunni jihadists and allied militants of up to 1,700 military

recruits, officials said.



They had been found guilty of involvement in the "Speicher" massacre, named

after a base near Tikrit where the recruits were kidnapped before being

executed in a massacre claimed by the Islamic State group.



"The executions of 36 convicted over the Speicher crime were carried out

this morning in Nasiriyah prison," a spokesman for the governor's office in

Dhiqar, the province of which Nasiriyah is the capital, told AFP.



"The governor of Dhiqar, Yahya al-Nasseri and Justice Minister Haidar

al-Zamili were present to oversee the executions," Abdelhassan Dawood

said."They were transferred to Nasiriyah last week after the president

approved the executions," he said, referring to the necessary green light

from Fuad Masum.Following the death of more than 300 people in the worst

ever single bomb attack to strike Baghdad last month, Prime Minister Haider

al-Abadi had said he wanted to expedite the execution of inmates sentenced

to death in terrorism cases.The Dhiqar governor confirmed to AFP that the

executions were carried out by hanging.



His spokesman said that around 400 of the Speicher massacre victims were

from the Dhiqar province, which is predominantly Shiite and located in

Iraq's south.



"Tens of relatives attended the executions," said Dawood. "They shouted

Allahu Akbar (God is greatest), they were happy to see those people

dead.Among them was Najla Shaab, a 30-year-old woman whose husband was

killed in the massacre, leaving her to raise their children alone."Thank you

God, it's a fair punishment for the worst crime, a triple crime of killing,

throwing bodies in the river and burying people alive," she told AFP by

phone.



- Botched trials -One of the sites of the massacre was the former river

police building inside former president Saddam Hussein's palace complex in

Tikrit.Video footage subsequently released by IS showed an assembly-line

massacre in which gunmen herded their victims towards the quay, shot them in

the back of the head and pushed them in the water one after the other.The

trials that have led to Iraq's latest batches of death sentences have been

severely criticized by rights groups as failing to meet basic

standards.Amnesty International had slammed Iraq's systematic resort to the

death penalty following the execution of 22 other people in May this

year."The use of the death penalty is deplorable in all circumstances, and

it is particularly horrendous when applied after grossly unfair trials

marred by allegations of confessions extracted under torture as is

frequently the case in Iraq," the group's Iraq researcher Diana Eltahawy

said.



The United Nations had criticized Abadi's call to speed up executions, which

according to Amnesty already topped 100 for 2016 before Sunday's

hangings."Fast-tracking executions will only accelerate injustice," U.N.

High Commissioner for Human Rights Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein said earlier this

month.The Speicher massacre is considered one of IS' worst crimes since it

took over large parts of the country in 2014.Combined with a call by the

country's top Shiite cleric Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani for Iraqis to

take up arms against them, the Speicher massacre played a key role in the

mass recruitment of Shiite volunteers to fight the jihadists.







+++Jordan Times 21 Aug,’16:”Israel extends Palestinian journalist’s

detention — NGO,by Agence France Presse



SUBJECT: Israel extends Palestinian journalist’s detention



QUOTE:Israel accuses him of participation in a terrorist organization”



FULL TEXT:RAMALLAH — Israeli authorities have extended by three months the

detention without trial of a Palestinian journalist who had been due for

release on Monday[22 Aug], a Palestinian NGO said on Saturday.[20 Aug.]



The Ramallah-based Palestinian Prisoners Club said it had been informed by

Omar Nazzal’s lawyers that the senior journalists’ union official would not

now be released at the end of his current term, on August 22. “Israel is

intensifying its policy of administrative detention and increasing the

extensions of administrative detention,” prisoners club spokeswoman Amani

Sarahneh told AFP.



“In particular it made this choice in the case of Omar.”



His wife Marlene Rabadi posted on Facebook: “We were informed today that

Omar’s administrative detention has been extended by three months.”



Israeli officials could not immediately be reached for comment on

Saturday[20 Aug], the Jewish sabbath said.



Nazzal was arrested on April 23 at the border between the West Bank and

Jordan, from where he had been due to fly to a European Federation of

Journalists gathering in Bosnia.



A military court ordered at the time that he be placed for four months in

administrative detention, an Israeli measure allowing suspects to be

interned for indefinite periods without charge.



Israel accuses him of “participation in a terrorist organisation”.



Its Shin Bet agency said in April that Nazzal, 54, served in a top position

at Falestine Al Youm television in Ramallah, which Israel forcibly closed on

accusations of incitement to violence.



Nazzal had left the broadcaster several months before his arrest, which

Palestinians say is an Israeli attack on the freedom of the Palestinian

press.



He has been on hunger strikes since August 4 in protest against his

detention, and international organizations have called for his release.



Israel says Nazzal was detained for “his involvement in terror group

activities”, and not “because of his activity as a journalist”.



The Palestinian journalists’ union says that another 19 Palestinian

journalists and students of journalism are in Israeli prisons, one of them

for more than 20 years

==========

Sue Lerner - Associate, IMRA