https://www.yahoo.com/news/fury-klitschko-rematch-set-oct-29-manchester-084745851--box.html
138
13
FILE - In this Nov. 28, 2015 file picture Ukraine's Wladimir Klitschko, right, and Britain's Tyson Fury compete in a world heavyweight title fight for Klitschko's WBA, IBF, WBO and IBO belts in the Esprit Arena in Duesseldorf, western Germany. The heavyweight rematch between Tyson Fury and Wladimir Klitschko has been rescheduled for Oct. 29 at the Manchester Arena. Fury beat Klitschko in November to claim the WBA, WBO and IBF titles. A rematch was originally scheduled for July 9 but was postponed after Fury sustained an ankle injury. The new date was announced Wednesday Sept. 7, 2016 by both fighters' management teams. (AP Photo/Sebastian Konopka,file)

LONDON (AP) -- Tyson Fury's rescheduled heavyweight title rematch against Wladimir Klitschko will take place on Oct. 29 - if the British fighter is cleared by a doping panel before then.

Fury beat Klitschko in November to claim the WBA, WBO and IBF titles. A rematch was originally scheduled for July 9 but was postponed after Fury said he sustained an ankle injury.

It was disclosed in August, on the same day Fury announced the injury, that the new champion had been charged by the U.K. Anti-Doping agency and suspended from the sport after testing positive for a banned substance.

Fury and his cousin Hughie, a heavyweight boxer who was also suspended, had their bans lifted ''pending full determination of the charges,'' UKAD said in August .

The agency said an anti-doping panel would be held in ''due course.'' That should happen before next month's fight at the Manchester Arena.

''In circumstances where a provisional suspension has been lifted, then UKAD takes the position that matters should be fully determined before the athlete that has committed the alleged anti-doping rule violation competes again,'' UKAD told The Associated Press on Wednesday. ''This is to preserve the integrity of the competition and the sport in general.''

Fury is unbeaten in 25 pro fights, with 18 knockouts. Fury's lawyer said in August that the 28-year-old fighter was suing UKAD over allegations he used performance-enhancing drugs.