http://indianexpress.com/article/entertainment/bollywood/salman-khan-backs-pakistani-actors-they-are-artists-not-terrorists-3057834/
1384
13
Salman Khan has come out in support of Pakistani actors such as Fawad Khan.(Source: ANI) Salman Khan has come out in support of Pakistani actors such as Fawad Khan.(Source: ANI)

Bollywood superstar Salman Khan seems to be backing Pakistani actors who have been facing severe criticism and a possible ban after the Uri attack on an army camp in Jammu and Kashmir leading to the death of 19 security forces. On boycott of Pakistani actors like Fawad Khan in Bollywood, Salman said,”They are artistes not terrorists. It’s the government who gives them permits and visas.”

WATCH VIDEO: Prefer Indian Actors In My Films: Farah Khan On Pak Actors Controversy

Ever since the September 18 attacks on the Army camp in Uri by Pakistani terrorists, there have been calls from all over India for a ban on Pakistani artistes working here. Mumbai-based Indian Motion Picture Producers Association (IMPPA) on Friday had even passed a resolution to ban Pakistani actors from the industry in the wake of the Uri attack. In Mumbai, Raj Thackeray’s MNS party had last week issued a 48-hour ultimatum to Pakistani artistes and actors including Fawad Khan and Ali Zafar, to leave India or else they would be “pushed out”.

WATCH VIDEO: Bollywood Actor Salman Khan Backs Pakistani Actors, Says They Are Artistes Not Terrorists

The organisation had also announced it won’t let films starring Pakistani stars — Karan Johar ’s Ae Dil Hai Mushkil and Shah Rukh Khan’s Raees — to release.

Commenting on the surgical strikes India carried out on terrorists across the Line of Control, Salman said: “The ideal situation would have been of peace. Now when this has happened, then obviously there will be

Commenting on the surgical strikes India carried out on terrorists across the Line of Control, Salman said: “The ideal situation would have been of peace. Now when this has happened, then obviously there will be reaction to this action.

“In this day and this age, I think if we live with love and peace, then it will be better for everyone, especially for the common man.”

WATCH VIDEO: I Have Experienced Tremendous Love And Hospitality In India

Salman Khan said,”Terrorists the na? Proper action tha (They were terrorists, right? It was the proper action).”

Check What Salman Khan said on ban of Pak artists and India’s surgical strikes:

They are artists not terrorists. Its the Govt who gives them permits and visas: Salman Khan on call on ban on Pak artists pic.twitter.com/i0qHCuJKCx — ANI (@ANI_news) September 30, 2016

Terrorists the na? Proper action tha: Salman Khan on #SurgicalStrike conducted by Indian army pic.twitter.com/thsgJTc3Ni — ANI (@ANI_news) September 30, 2016

Other actors such as Amitabh Bachchan, Shah Rukh Khan and Akshay Kumar also praised the Indian Army on the surgical strikes conducted along the Line of Control.

While there was support for Pakistani artistes working in Bollywood from all over the industry, some have questioned their place in the country, including CBFC chief Pahlaj Nihalani.

“Jab Pakistan humare kalakaron ko jagah nahi deta toh hum kyun sentimental ho jaayein? (When Pakistan doesn’t allow our actors to work in their country, why should we get sentimental?),” news agency ANI quoted Nihalani as saying.

The censor board chief though ruled out preventing the release of movies of producers who have cast Pakistani artistes.

“Karan Johar and other filmmakers signed Pakistani actors when relations(India-Pak) were fine,so would be wrong to try & stop their film release now,” Nihalani added.

Meanwhile, MNS and Shiv Sena have continued to voice against Pakistani artistes working in Bollywood with MNS threatening violence against them.

“If we find any Pakistani artist working here, we will beat them up,” Amey Khopkar of MNS said on Friday.

“We have a population of 1.25 billion, why do we have to import artists from Pakistan?” said Shiv Sena MP Arvind Sawant regarding Pakistani artistes working in Bollywood.

Shiv Sena’s Subhash Desai even responded to Salman Khan’s statements on Friday saying,”Salman Khan should consult with his father Salim Khan before making such statements.”

© The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd