http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/isis-child-suicide-bomber-kills-8674714
203
20
Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

A suspected Islamic State child suicide bomber massacred at least 50 wedding guests dancing in a Turkey street.

President Tayyip Erdogan blamed the murders on Islamic State and said the killer, who wore an explosive belt, was between the ages of 12 and 14.

The sickening attack is the deadliest bombing this year in Turkey, which faces threats from militants at home and across the border with neighbouring Syria.

The country's President Tayyip Erdogan said militants had carried out the late-night attack Gaziantep on Saturday.

The local governor's office said in a statement 50 people were killed in the bombing, and more wounded were still being treated in hospitals around the province.

"The celebrations were coming to an end and there was a big explosion among people dancing," said 25-year-old Veli Can.

REUTERS A police officer secures the scene of an explosion as locals stand next to him after a suspected suicide bomber targeted a wedding celebration

AHMED DEEPAHMED DEEP/AFP/Getty Images People stand near the explosion scene following a late night attack on a wedding party

"There was blood and body parts everywhere."

Blood stains and burns marked the walls of the narrow lane where the wedding party was attacked while women in white and checkered scarves cried sitting crosslegged and waiting outside the morgue for word on missing relatives.

AHMED DEEPAHMED DEEP/AFP/Getty Images Turkish police work near the explosion scene following a late night attack on a wedding party

REUTERS A police officer secures the scene of an explosion where a suspected suicide bomber targeted a wedding celebration

At least 12 people were buried on Sunday, but other funerals would have to wait because many of the victims were blown to pieces and DNA forensics tests would be needed to identify them, security sources said.

The pro-Kurdish Peoples' Democratic Party, or HDP, said in a statement that the wedding was for one of its members, and women and children had been among those killed.

REUTERS Women mourn as they wait in front of a hospital morgue in the Turkish city of Gaziantep

REUTERS A woman pauses as she sits near the scene of an explosion

Video loading Watch next Watch this video again Watch Next Click to play Tap to play The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

Mahmut Togrul, an HDP lawmaker from Gaziantep, around 40 km (25 miles) north of the border with Syria, told Reuters it was a Kurdish wedding.

Islamic State has been blamed for suicide bombings on Kurdish gatherings in the past as militants try to

stir ethnic tensions.

REUTERS A man and a woman mourn next to a body of one the victims of a blast targeting a wedding ceremony

AFP/Getty Images Ambulances arrive at site of an explosion

"It was carried out like an atrocity," witness Ibrahim Ozdemir said. "We want to end these massacres. We are in pain, especially the women and children."

Turkey is still tense after an attempted coup on July 15 which Ankara blames on U.S.-based preacher Fethullah Gulen.

He has denied the charge.

Here's the latest from #turkey , explosion at wedding hall # pic.twitter.com/emNqBRSHqj — Ihtisham ul Haq (@iihtishamm) August 20, 2016

AHMED DEEBAHMED DEEB/AFP/Getty Images Relatives grieve at hospital August 20, 2016 in Gaziantep following a late night militant attack on a wedding

Bombings have torn at the fabric of Turkey which is seen by Western allies as an important ally and buffer against instability in Syria and Iraq.

Three suspected Islamic State suicide bombers killed 44 people at Istanbul's main airport in July, the deadliest in a string of attacks in Turkey this year.

Almost 40 people were killed in a suicide bomb attack in Ankara in March that was claimed by a Kurdish group.