http://www.batonrougepost.com/index.php/sid/246931419
202
20
Downloadable ESPN Images of College GameDay: http://bit.ly/GameDayPics

ESPN College GameDay Built by The Home Depot - college football's longest-running and most-celebrated pregame show - returns Baton Rouge, La., and the campus of LSU on Saturday, Nov. 5, in advance of No. 1 Alabama at No. 15 LSU. The weekly three-hour show (9 a.m.-noon) will originate the Alabama-LSU matchup for the ninth time and will be set from the Parade Grounds on the LSU campus.

The six-time Emmy Award-winning show is hosted by Rece Davis, who is joined by analysts Lee Corso, Kirk Herbstreit, Desmond Howard and David Pollack, as well as contributors Chris 'The Bear' Fallica, Jen Lada, Samantha Ponder, Tom Rinaldi, George Whitfield and Gene Wojciechowski.

College Football Live will air from the set on Friday with Ponder, Howard and Pollack (1:30 p.m., ESPN). SportCenter's Marty Smith will be onsite reporting.

Corso Facts:

Corso began making his entertaining end-of-show headgear pick of the team he thinks will win the game at the GameDay site, marking 20 years this season. Week 10 will be headgear number 285 for Corso, as he is 189-95 all-time in headgear picks. The phenomenon began on October 5, 1996, prior to the Ohio State-Penn State game in Columbus, Ohio when he put on OSU's "Brutus Buckeye" mascot head to show his pick to win the game - watch here.

Corso has a five-game winning streak with headgear picks, and last had a six-game win streak in 2013 (won eight straight that year). He is 17-8 when picking Alabama. The 25 times picking Alabama represents the most times Corso has put on a team's headgear. Lee has picked against a Nick Saban-coached Alabama team six times and has been wrong five of those six times. Corso is 12-5 when picking LSU and 5-3 when picking against LSU. LSU has lost four of the last five games which Lee has picked them. The lone win in those five games was the 2014 10-7 LSU win in Baton Rouge over Ole Miss - the last time the show has been to Baton Rouge. Croso saw his 11-year Week 10 winning streak end last year when he picked LSU to beat Alabama in Tuscaloosa.

'The Bear' College GameDay Fun Facts:

This is the ninth LSU-Alabama game GameDay has attended. The Tide have won six of the previous eight meetings (Alabama is 3-0 in Baton Rouge, 2-2 in Tuscaloosa and 1-0 in bowl games). The nine visits to LSU-Alabama are the most of any matchup with Miami-Florida State and Florida-Florida State come in second with seven meetings. The last six times GameDay has been at the site of a game where AP No. 1 is on the road, the game has been decided by single digits all six times. The last two such instances saw No. 1 fall (2014 Alabama at Auburn and 2014 Mississippi State at Alabama). This is the sixth time GameDay has been at the site of a road game with No. 1 Alabama on the road. The Tide are 3-2 in the previous six, but 2-0 at LSU in this situation with two wins by a combined 10 points. Including bowls and SEC Championship Games, this is the 26th time GameDay will originate from an LSU game. LSU is 15-10 in the previous 25 and has lost the last two. This is the fourth game televised by CBS from which GameDay will originate this season. Each of the last three weeks, the show has originated from a game broadcast on either CBS or FS1.