http://regator.com/blog_profile/8706/executed_today/
202
20
1862: Thomas Sanders, rapist yesterday News / Crime : Executed Today Thomas Sanders was hanged on this date in 1862 at Melbourne Gaol. An ex-con at Norfolk Island, Sanders took to the bush with another man named John Johnson and in 1862 perpetrated a terrifying home-invasion raid upon the farm of Henry Cropley. They spent five hours there, eating, relaxing, and terrifying the family, comfortably remote […] RELATED ► POST PROFILESHARE ►

1857: James Copeland, repentant gangster 2 days ago News / Crime : Executed Today On this date in 1857, “the great southern land pirate” James Copeland went to the gallows in the now-abandoned Mississippi town of Augusta. Copeland‘s criminal career is the subject of a wonderfully old-timey reader by the Perry County sheriff who noosed him. (As it says right there on the title plate. Sheriff J.R.S. Pitts does […] RELATED ► POST PROFILESHARE ►

1543: Pietro Fatinelli, betrayed by Lando 3 days ago News / Crime : Executed Today On this date in 1543, a young nobleman named Pietro Fatinelli executed for plotting to overthrow the mercantile oligarchy of the Tuscan city-state Lucca. The Fatinelli family “was of ancient lineage, but had recently played little part in the running of the government,” according to Mary Hewlett in The Renaissance in the Streets, Schools, and […] RELATED ► POST PROFILESHARE ►

1996: Arshad Jameel, military man 4 days ago News / Crime : Executed Today Pakistani army Capt. Arshad Jameel (or Jamil) was hanged at Hyderabad Prison 20 years ago today. Capt. Jameel exploited a security sweep to orchestrate the summary execution of nine Indian-armed terrorists … who turned out not to be terrorists at all, but ordinary residents of Tando Bahawal village whom Jameel had a personal grudge with. […] RELATED ► POST PROFILESHARE ►

1905: Ed Lamb, bully 5 days ago News / Crime : Executed Today This date in 1905 was — in the title of the Manatee County Historical Society publication about the case — The Day They Hanged Ed Lamb in Braidentown/Bradentown/Bradenton. It all started in the schoolyard. Lamb’s son was the resident bully at the local Braden River School until one day that January he picked a fight […] RELATED ► POST PROFILESHARE ►

2010: Jeffrey Landrigan, thiopentaled 6 days ago News / Crime : Executed Today Jeffrey Landrigan was executed in Arizona for murder on this date in 2010 — via an imprt drug that made his case a recent landmark in the ongoing U.S. tussle over lethal injection. Landrigan broke out of jail in 1989 where he was serving a second-degree murder sentence and did a first-degree murder in the […] RELATED ► POST PROFILESHARE ►

1828: Charles French, York printer last week News / Crime : Executed Today On this date in 1828, a young printer’s assistant morally corrupted by the theater went to the gallows at York, Upper Canada (soon to become Toronto, Ontario). After boozing it up at a performance of Tom and Jerry, or, Life in London at Frank’s Hotel, 21-year-old Charles French fell into a drunken row with Edward […] RELATED ► POST PROFILESHARE ►

1829: Matej Tatarka, outlaw last week News / Crime : Executed Today On this date in 1829, the Slovak outlaw Matej Tatarka was hanged. Tatarka — and most information about this character is in Slovak, as the links in the post will attest — was a brigand whose gang haunted the rugged wilds of the Tatras mountains straddling present-day northern Slovakia and southern Poland. That was in […] RELATED ► POST PROFILESHARE ►

1573: Hugh Cahun, unjustly last week News / Crime : Executed Today On this date in 1573, miscarried justice took the head of Scottish cavalryman Hugh Cahun in Stockholm. Modernizing in the 16th century, Sweden flattered Scotland with deepening ties not excluding marriage feelers for Mary, Queen of Scots. When a rising Sweden’s ambitions brought her into conflict with Russia, Sweden summoned thousands of Scots soldiers to […] RELATED ► POST PROFILESHARE ►

1933: Dallas Egan, dancing last week News / Crime : Executed Today On this date in 1933, Dallas Egan hanged at California’s San Quentin Prison — and pretty much nobody was happier about it than Dallas Egan. A cynic might attribute the puckish jig he reputedly danced en route to the gallows to the liberal allotment of whiskey, straight he had swallowed at the sufferance of Gov. […] RELATED ► POST PROFILESHARE ►