http://www.oklahomacitysun.com/index.php/sid/246931419
202
20
Oklahoma offensive coordinator Lincoln Riley is used to preparing for midweek games.

The Sooners are not.

When Riley held the same position at East Carolina, the Pirates often had to play Thursday and Friday games.

He's drawing on that experience this week as the Sooners prepare for a Thursday night game at Iowa State.

"We went back and looked at what we did at East Carolina and some stuff worked and some stuff didn't so we've changed it up some," Riley said.

In the past 20 years, only three of Oklahoma's regular-season games have been played on a day other than Saturday.

During Bob Stoops' 18 seasons in Norman, the Sooners have had to play game with short preparation just once. In that case, against Tulsa in 2007, Oklahoma had just one less day as the game was on a Friday.

The Sooners' other two non-Saturday games during Stoops' tenure have come with either a bye week immediately preceding (Baylor, 2013) or to start the season (Tulsa, 2001).

"It's challenging to a degree but at this point of the year, it's not like all the sudden you start all over and have a whole new offense and defense," Stoops said.

Stoops did say the coaches starting working on a game plan for Iowa State late last week before the Kansas game after they were comfortable with where their team stood in preparations for that game.

The Sooners usually get Sunday off but had to practice this week to try to get ready for the Thursday trip.

"It's a different mindset, for sure," Oklahoma receiver Mark Andrews said. "Usually you are able to relax and limp around all day With this practice, you had to bounce back, get your mind right and get over the last game and get ready for a new one."

Offensive tackle Orlando Brown said it's usually not until Tuesday during a week where he feels fully re-energized after a game.

"Fortunately, we didn't have to play the whole game (against Kansas)," Brown said. "There's a bunch of reps right there that were cut out. Obviously guys will still be sore but it's not as bad."

Stoops said he wouldn't address Iowa State's midweek success much with his team. The Cyclones beat previously undefeated Oklahoma State in 2011 on a Friday night and took Texas down to the wire in 2013 before falling 31-30.

"It will be mentioned but not overly because those are different teams," Stoops said. "Those are different coaches at the time, different players at the time. So our focus is mainly on what we can control and that's being our best in how we compete and play."

NOTES, QUOTES

PLAYERS TO WATCH

--QB Baker Mayfield has been efficient during Big 12 play, completing more than 74 percent of his passes over the last five games. Last year against Iowa State, he threw for 342 yards and three touchdowns.

--WR Dede Westbrook has had more receiving yards in the last five games (881) than all but 11 FBS players have had in their entire seasons.

--RB Joe Mixon leads the Big 12 and is third nationally with 195.4 all-purpose yards per game.

--CB Jordan Thomas is second in the nation with 1.6 passes defended per game. Nine of his 13 defended passes have come in the last four games.

--LB Jordan Evans is fifth in the Big 12 with 8.0 tackles per game.