http://www.tngovwatch.org/the-03242016-jihad-watch-daily-digest-melkite-greek-catholic-patriarch-christ-was-born-in-palestine-washington-post-the-horror-in-brussels-is-a-rebuke-to-tru/
203
20
Melkite Greek Catholic Patriarch: “Christ was born in Palestine!” By Robert Spencer on Mar 23, 2016 10:34 pm “No one defends Islam like Arab Christians,” said the Melkite Greek Catholic Patriarch, Gregory III Laham, a couple of months ago, and apparently his indefatigable defense of the religion whose adherents have destroyed his churches and decimated his people extends even to his rewriting history to further the “Palestinian” jihad narrative. “Christ was born in […] Read in browser » Washington Post: “The horror in Brussels is a rebuke to Trump’s foreign policy” By Robert Spencer on Mar 23, 2016 12:59 pm The mainstream media gets more absurd by the day. When did Donald Trump become President? The policies he is advocating are not now being implemented, so there is no conceivable way that the Brussels jihad massacre can be blamed upon them, or taken as any indication that they would not be effective (which is not […] Read in browser » Belgian cops asked Muslims for help in finding jihad bombers and were ignored By Robert Spencer on Mar 23, 2016 12:11 pm Remember this the next time you see a mainstream media story weeping over how Muslims in the areas from which the jihad murderers came are being regarded with suspicion. “City of Jihad: Chilling map reveals how Isis fanatics established network of terror where they could plot under noses of police,” by Jake Wallis Simons, Mailonline, […] Read in browser » Hugh Fitzgerald: An Ahmadi Night Out By Hugh Fitzgerald on Mar 23, 2016 11:45 am “Faith Presbyterian Church and Ahmadiyya Muslim Community host program in Indianapolis to fight fear of Islamic faith with knowledge.” So says the article “What you need to know about ISIS and Islam,” Olivia Lewis, Indianapolis Star, March 19, 2016: The best way to disband fear is to educate, said the hosts of a faith-based event […] Read in browser » USA Today: “It’s already been a rough few months for Belgian Muslims” By Robert Spencer on Mar 23, 2016 10:40 am How about Belgian non-Muslims? How are they doing? “It’s already been a rough few months for Belgian Muslims in the wake of November’s terror attacks in Paris and the search for suspects in Belgium: lockdowns, increased security and raids on homes. Now, in the wake of the country’s deadliest terror attacks on Tuesday, Muslims who […] Read in browser » Bangladesh: Islamic State claims murder of convert from Islam to Christianity By Robert Spencer on Mar 23, 2016 10:28 am Istanbul, Brussels, Bangladesh: the Islamic State is a busy JV team. And here they’re simply following Islamic law. A hadith depicts Muhammad saying: “Whoever changed his Islamic religion, then kill him” (Bukhari 9.84.57). The death penalty for apostasy is part of Islamic law according to all the schools of Islamic jurisprudence. This is still the […] Read in browser » Brussels awakens to new reality: soldiers on the streets, heavy security on metro By Robert Spencer on Mar 23, 2016 10:00 am This is the reality of a nation at war. All of Europe, and the U.S. as well, will soon know this reality, courtesy of the immigration policies being indefatigably pursued by the political elites. “Brussels Awakens to a New Reality: Soldiers on the Streets, Heavy Security on Metro,” Haaretz, March 23, 2016: BRUSSELS – The […] Read in browser » Robert Spencer in the Detroit News: Blame multicultural fantasies for Brussels attacks By Robert Spencer on Mar 23, 2016 08:35 am In the Detroit News today I discuss the real lesson of the Brussels jihad massacre: The death toll in Tuesday morning’s jihadist attacks in Brussels is now 31. The political toll is almost as catastrophic: These jihad attacks in Brussels show anew the abject failure of Europe’s policies regarding Muslim immigration and multiculturalism. Last year, […] Read in browser » Brussels jihad mass murderer fired rifle at police in 2010, was sentenced to nine years in prison By Robert Spencer on Mar 23, 2016 08:28 am “Brahim El Bakraoui, 30, was convicted in October 2010 for firing a Kalashnikov assault rifle at police and wounding an officer after a robbery in Brussels earlier that year. He was sentenced to nine years in prison. In 2011, his brother Khalid was given a sentence of five years for car jacking.” Then in 2016, […] Read in browser » Video: Robert Spencer on Newsmax TV on the Brussels jihad massacre By Robert Spencer on Mar 23, 2016 08:16 am Yesterday I was on Newsmax TV’s Steve Malzberg Show, discussing the jihad terror attacks in Brussels. Read in browser » Raymond Ibrahim: An Islamic Apocalypse in Brussels By Raymond Ibrahim on Mar 23, 2016 08:13 am Islamic jihad struck Brussels yesterday morning—first at Brussels Airport and then at a metro station 400 meters from EU headquarters—leaving at least 34 people dead and 230 injured. It was an apocalyptic scene according to survivors, “with blood and dismembered bodies everywhere,” even “thrown in to the air.” One man recalled the “horror. I saw […] Read in browser »