http://www.independentsentinel.com/annihilation-of-the-west-you-know-something-is-wrong-listen-to-your-inner-voice/
202
20
Radical Islam is a cancerous form of the religion and we must face it or we are going to be dealing with terror attacks on a continual basis.

Radical Islam is a Fascist ideology that is both political and religious, making it far more dangerous than ideologies like communism and Nazi-ism. No one will stop the bleeding. Soon the global jihad will spread throughout Europe and North America. No one is standing in its way and too many don’t understand what is happening.

On Tuesday, Ann Corcoran of refugee resettlement, posted an excerpt from an article, Mohammed, Islamic History, and the Bloody Future. What makes this noteworthy is, not only its content, but the fact that it is a German blog of factual information about the jihad written by a German and it took no small amount of courage to write. The editor of the blog Real Facts Media posted the article hours before the horrific attack in Brussels.

One can easily feel what he is feeling. It’s happening here. An excerpt:

Every time there is a new Islamic terror attack and you learn the horrific details, that awkward and nauseating feeling comes back again.

It’s trying to warn you, “Something is very wrong.”

And after every Islamic terror attack, our politicians and media try desperately to assure us of two things:

These “terrorists do not represent Islam” and

We are a multicultural society that welcomes Muslim immigration

And yet, that inner voice deep down inside you remains…

Because your inner voice is correct.

Author Alex Charles wants to believe as do most of us that multiculturalism will work, but will it, has it? It has a long history of not working.

To find the answer, ask Mohammed, the author suggests. The Koran states 91 times that he is the perfect Muslim and every Muslim must imitate him. All there is about him comes from the Sira (Mohammed’s biography) and the Hadith (Mohammed’s traditions). The Koran, Sira, and Hadith make up the entire doctrine of Islam. These three works are called the Trilogy.

Mohammed was peaceful – at first – but soon became violent and behaved as ISIS, al Shabaab, Ansar al-Islam, Boko Haram, al Qaida and the other jihadists do today.

The article continues:

In the last ten years of Mohammed’s life, Islam completely decimated the Arabian peninsula. Mohammed averaged one major battle every six weeks (not including assassinations and mass executions). When Mohammed changed his strategy to include migration, jihad, and politics (Sharia law), Islam conquered everyone in Arabia.

Sharia law is Islamic law based on the three works of the Trilogy: Koran, Sira, and Hadith. Islam dictates that Sharia law comes from Allah and it must replace all man-made legal codes and constitutions. Most of Sharia law is based on the examples from Mohammed, which come from the Sira and Hadith.

Sharia law is completely incompatible with all non-Muslim government structures – including every Western democracy. It requires the end of free speech, free thought, freedom of religion, and freedom of the press.

Islam is a political movement, not simply a religion. It’s dualistic nature is both peaceful and violent. The nice Muslim colleague and the ISIS jihadist follow the same Islamic doctrine in the Sira, Hadith, and Koran.

Islam is a civilization that extinguishes all other civilizations because it’s aggressive, not because it’s peaceful.

The article notes that Turkey illustrates the gradual process of how a country that was once 100 percent Christian becomes 99.7 percent Muslim (today).

Look at the trajectory we are on.

Today in Germany we have “No-Go zones” under Sharia law, the author asserts, schools that have been forced to ban all pork meat, the elimination of traditional Christian holidays celebrated by German children, segregated swimming pools, and an increasing number of Muslims who refuse to see doctors of the opposite sex. Berlin opened Europe’s first clinic devoted to treating victims of female genital mutilation – a disturbing practice in Islamic society.

As Muslims grow in number, through high birth rates and mass immigration, the results are always the same. The native culture, people, and civilization are annihilated and totally replaced by Islam and Sharia law.

Islamists cannot be friends with kafirs and there can be no assimilation.

Mr. Charles explains that it is a slow process but as the older civilization dies out, Muslims will replace them because of endless migration and very high birth rates among the Muslim populations.

The future is total annihilation and will not stop until society is 100% Muslim.

“They plot and scheme against you [Mohammed], and I plot and scheme against them. Therefore, deal calmly with the Kafirs and leave them alone for a while.” (Koran 86:15)

It’s the same strategy that destroyed the Hindus in Pakistan, the Buddhists in Afghanistan, the Zoroastrians in Iran, the Coptic Christians in Egypt, and the Orthodox Christians in Turkey.

This strategy of jihad and Sharia law has led to the deaths of approximately 270 million non-Muslims and the total destruction of countless civilizations.

We urge you to read the entire article and sign up for updates…

The problem is the liberals in the United States and Canada will do exactly what the liberals are doing in Europe and the more radical elements of Islam will be allowed to take over.

It’s happening now. We see it in towns we don’t go to, in businesses who won’t serve pork, workers who won’t sell or prepare certain items or demand they be allowed to pray ten times a day with special accommodations, in ladies in burqas, in cases of brutality by Islamists, in the almost daily arrest of Muslims committing crimes against women or trying to join a terror organization, and in terror-tied organizations that are encouraged to spin false narratives about Islamophobia because it fulfills an agenda.

Even now in Belgium as this tragedy brings the light to the nature of the problem, Obama won’t call it radical Islam and Belgians think increasing jobs and opportunities for young potential jihadis is the solution, showing yet again their fundamental lack of understanding of the problem.

Liberal Belgians support giving Sharia’h courts equal rights with Belgian courts even though moderate Muslims don’t want the extremes of Islam either.

The first Belgian Islamic Sharia’h law court was established in Antwerp, the second-largest city in Belgium. It was started by the Islamic group, Shariah4Belgium. The leaders’ intent was to challenge the Belgian constitution. They started by mediating family law disputes but the plan was always to expand to criminal cases.

The judges are self-appointed and apply a strict version of Islamic law rather than Belgian law “to resolve disputes involving questions of marriage and divorce, child custody and child support, as well as all inheritance-related matters.”

Sharia’h law does not guarantee equal rights for men and women as does Belgian law. Furthermore, the Sharia’h court will make it difficult, if not impossible, for the state to investigate and prosecute honor crimes, including forced marriages.

Sharia courts rule that no Muslim woman marry a non-Muslim man unless he converts to Islam and that any children of a woman who does should be taken from her until she marries a Muslim. They approve polygamous marriage and enforce a woman’s duty to have sex with her husband on his demand.

The Sharia4Belgium group plans to bring every Belgian under Shariah law. Britain has Sharia courts as well.

Belgistan –



The Sentinel warned about the Islamization of Belgium in April 2012. Islamofascists, we wrote, are planning to rule the EU, Eastern Europe and the United States and Canada.

Belgium is on an irreversible path. Islam is Belgium’s largest minority religion. Brussels’ Muslim population is 25.5% and they are expected to outnumber native Belgians by 2030.

The religion of Islam is actually subsidized in Belgium. Belgians are the politically correct authors of their own demise.

Islamic terror cells have been problematic and resulted in some convictions though the cells are known to thrive in certain areas of Belgium. Massacres by Islamic extremists have become frequent.

It’s coming to America. They are already in Mexico and Central and South America. The global jihad is spreading.

Here is one more fact for you: Belgians can still enter the US without a visa. Attacks on the US are inevitable.