http://www.post-gazette.com/news/world/2016/03/30/World-briefs-1-suspect-still-sought-for-attack/stories/201603300119
201
20
BRUSSELS — Justice Minister Koen Geens pleaded Tuesday for critics of Belgium’s intelligence failures to focus on the hunt for those behind last week’s Brussels attacks and November’s massacre in Paris.

Investigators say they are still looking for at least one suspect in the attacks seven days ago, when suicide bombers killed 32 people at Brussels’ airport and in a subway station near the European Union headquarters. Three suicide bombers also blew themselves up.

The Health Ministry and victims identification officials said 90 people remain in hospital, a third of them suffering from severe burns. In a joint news conference they said the 32 dead include 17 Belgians and 15 foreigners, while 44 of the wounded are foreigners from 20 nations.

Obama to meet with Asian leaders

WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama will be meeting with Asian leaders in Washington in a two-day gathering that starts Thursday as fears grow that long-smoldering tensions on the Korean Peninsula and in the South China Sea risk flaring into conflict.

World leaders — including those from China, Japan and South Korea — will be in town for a summit hosted by Mr. Obama on nuclear security — the final round in the U.S. president’s drive for international action to stop materials that could be used for an atomic weapon or dirty bomb from getting into terrorist hands.

Mr. Obama will on Thursday meet separately with China’s President Xi Jinping.

Pirates holding sailors in Pacific

JAKARTA, Indonesia — Hijackers are holding 10 Indonesian crew members from a tugboat that they seized in waters off the Philippines, in the latest high-profile case of piracy in the region, officials from both countries said Tuesday.

The tugboat, an Indonesian-flagged ship named the Brahma 12, was eventually set adrift, but the hijackers kept a barge it was hauling that held 7,000 tons of coal, as well as the entire crew, Indonesia’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs said in a statement. The Philippine military said the hijacking occurred Saturday evening.

More Internet restrictions in China

BEIJING — China’s government is moving to tighten its grip over the Internet as it rolls out draft rules that will effectively ban Web domains not approved by local authorities, including possibly the most widely used .com and .org addresses.

China employs one of the world’s most exhaustive Internet censorship regimes to suppress dissent and information deemed dangerous by the Communist Party. Social-media posts can be deleted and search terms blocked, while local Web users can’t access foreign websites including those of Facebook and Twitter.

Also in the world ...

North Korea fired a short-range projectile from an area near its eastern coast Tuesday, South Korean officials said, in what appears to be another weapons test seen as a response to ongoing military drills between Washington and Seoul. ... The Brazilian Democratic Movement Party, the nation’s biggest political party, has formally left the governing coalition, delivering a major blow to President Dilma Rousseff just weeks before she faces an impeachment vote in Congress. ... Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak allegedly received millions of dollars in his personal bank accounts between 2011 and 2013 from the Saudi Arabian finance ministry and two men identifying themselves as princes from the Middle Eastern nation, according to the Australian Broadcasting Corp.