http://www.tngovwatch.org/the-03232016-jihad-watch-daily-digest-cruz-patrol-and-secure-muslim-neighborhoods-before-they-become-radicalized-hamas-linked-cair-outraged-islamic-sta/
202
20
Cruz: “Patrol and secure Muslim neighborhoods before they become radicalized” — Hamas-linked CAIR outraged By Robert Spencer on Mar 22, 2016 07:23 pm “‘It’s really beyond belief that you have one of the leading presidential candidates calling for law enforcement to target religious communities totally based on the fact that they are of a particular faith,’ said Ibrahim Hooper, a spokesman for the [Hamas-linked] Council on American-Islamic relations [sic].” Meanwhile, significant segments of Hooper’s religious community worldwide are […] Read in browser » Islamic State distributes sweets to Muslims in celebration of Brussels jihad massacre By Robert Spencer on Mar 22, 2016 05:50 pm Lovers of death celebrate murder. Thanks to TRACterrorism.org. Read in browser » Video: After Brussels jihad massacre, Daily Beast editor decries “rampant Islamophobia” in Europe By Robert Spencer on Mar 22, 2016 05:15 pm “Now, you have a situation where people who were not inclined to look suspiciously at Arabs and Muslims, now they’re terrified.” And if they’re terrified, it’s their fault. “Well, it certainly is going to make it more and more difficult for Muslims and Arabs to integrate into European society. The level of suspicion is very […] Read in browser » Video: War zone in Brussels as passengers cower under desks and run for their lives after jihad bombs detonate By Robert Spencer on Mar 22, 2016 04:06 pm “At the airport, there were reports of a firefight between police and the attackers who shouted in Arabic moments before detonating their bombs, one of which was understood to contain nails.” they proudly proclaim that they love death, and they always try to maximize it. “Terror in the terminal: Chilling footage shows moment passengers cower […] Read in browser » Video: Just two months ago, Brussels ridiculed idea that it was a “war zone” By Robert Spencer on Mar 22, 2016 03:35 pm “After Brussels was linked to terror plots, the international media portrayed the city as a warzone. We wanted to change this perception with an honest answer.” Today, the Islamic jihad terrorists gave a different answer. “FLASHBACK: Brussels Ridiculed Idea Of Islamic Violence In Ad [VIDEO],” by Blake Neff, Daily Caller, March 22, 2016: In the […] Read in browser » Cruz: “In the wake of Brussels, we don’t need another lecture from President Obama about Islamophobia” By Robert Spencer on Mar 22, 2016 02:35 pm “Today’s attacks in Brussels underscores this is a war. This is not a lone war. ISIS has declared jihad.” Yes. This shouldn’t even be controversial. It’s painfully obvious — as is Cruz’s call for an end to Obama’s suicidal migrant policies. “Cruz: ‘We Don’t Need Another Lecture on Islamophobia,’” by Cortney O’Brien, Townhall, March 22, […] Read in browser » CCTV image released of Brussels jihad mass murderers, one being hunted as fugitive By Robert Spencer on Mar 22, 2016 01:05 pm Where are they from? Where do they live? With whom do they associate? Where do they attend mosque? How many others are in their cell? How many who hold to their belief system and ideology are in Belgium? In Europe? In the United States? “Brussels terror attacks: CCTV image of suspects released following attacks on […] Read in browser » Islamic State quotes Muhammad as it claims responsibility for Brussels jihad mass murder attacks By Robert Spencer on Mar 22, 2016 12:31 pm “The supporter claimed to have received a message from an Isis militant to the group’s supporters in Belgium reading: ‘We have come to you with slaughter.’” Muhammad once said to the pagan Arabs of Mecca: “Will you listen to me, O Quraysh? By him who holds my life in His hand, I bring you slaughter.” […] Read in browser » International Business Times: “Muslims Fear Backlash After Brussels Attack” By Robert Spencer on Mar 22, 2016 11:23 am This is a typical “backlash” story, of the kind that invariably appears after a jihad attack or foiled jihad plot. It attempts to deflect attention away from the jihad terror and onto Muslims as victims, their religion unfairly demonized. One bad apple shouldn’t be taken as spoiling the bunch, we’re told. The real problem is […] Read in browser » Trump: Brussels an “armed camp,” today’s jihad attacks “just the beginning” By Robert Spencer on Mar 22, 2016 10:38 am “I will tell you, I’ve been talking about this a long time, and look at Brussels. Brussels was a beautiful city, a beautiful place with zero crime. And now it’s a disaster city. It’s a total disaster, and we have to be very careful in the United States, we have to be very careful and […] Read in browser » Hillary Clinton: US response to Brussels jihad mass murders must be “consistent with our values” By Robert Spencer on Mar 22, 2016 10:20 am “It’s unrealistic to say we’re going to completely shut down our borders to everyone. I know that Americans have every reason to be frightened by what they see, we’ve got to work this through, consistent with our values.” Her implication is clear: any response to what is rapidly becoming a state of war in Europe […] Read in browser » It’s time for the governments of Europe to fall By Robert Spencer on Mar 22, 2016 09:07 am It’s time for votes of no-confidence. It’s time for the governments of Britain, France, Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands, and more to fall. I’m not talking about violent revolution. There are mechanisms for the peaceful replacement of governments in most European nations at times when the existing government is seen widely to be inadequate for the […] Read in browser » Islamic State supporters on social media scream “Allahu akbar,” celebrate Brussels jihad mass murders By Robert Spencer on Mar 22, 2016 08:21 am They know they’re at war, and with whom. The knowledge is not so comprehensive on the other side. “ISIS supporters on social media celebrate lethal Brussels bombings,” by Maayan Groisman, Jerusalem Post, March 22, 2016: ISIS adherents on social media were celebrating the deadly terror attacks that took place in Brussels Tuesday morning, although the […] Read in browser » “We are at war,” says French Prime Minister after jihad mass murder attacks in Brussels By Robert Spencer on Mar 22, 2016 08:01 am We are at war? Do tell, Valls. With whom are we at war? “Violent extremists”? How do you propose to fight this war if you won’t acknowledge what the enemy ideology is, and keep importing into your country more people who adhere to that ideology? And when did this war start? This morning? Earlier? Last […] Read in browser » “I heard a man shout some Arabic words then an explosion” — death toll at least 28 in jihad attacks in Brussels By Robert Spencer on Mar 22, 2016 07:52 am Europe is at war. Will European authorities continue to aid and abet the enemy, and invite Muslim migrants into their countries in large numbers, despite the presence of jihad terrorists among them? Also, remember the reports from a few days ago about how Salah Abdeslam was cooperating with authorities? Well, he undoubtedly knew about these […] Read in browser » Brussels: “War scene” as jihad suicide bombings rock airport and subway By Robert Spencer on Mar 22, 2016 07:34 am It is indeed a “war scene,” and part of a war that is ongoing, that Brussels and the rest of Europe have invited for themselves and still refuse to admit is happening. These attacks were revenge for the arrest of Salah Abdeslam. The jihadis, like their Leftist allies, would prefer the West surrender quietly. “Brussels […] Read in browser »