http://english.cntv.cn/2016/03/23/VIDEIbGimgHo1VfXZwz7PmC2160323.shtml
202
20
Reporter: Kate Parkinson 丨 CCTV.com

03-23-2016 15:12 BJT

People across Belgium, Europe and around the world are mourning the loss of 35 people killed in terrorist attacks in Brussels Tuesday.

In Brussels, flowers, candles, chalk writings, crosses and other mementos were left at the Place de la Bourse. Some of Europe’s best-known monuments have been illuminated with Belgium's national colors in a show of solidarity.

The Eiffel Tower in Paris was lit up in the black, yellow and red colors of the Belgian flag. Berlin's landmark Brandenburg Gate, which after the November attacks in Paris was illuminated with the French colors of red, white and blue, also was lit up in the Belgian colors. And in Italy, Rome’s Trevi Fountain joined in displaying Belgium’s national colors.

Belgian police are now hunting for a suspect caught on airport security cameras, walking beside two other suspects. CCTV's Kate Parkinson reports from Brussels.

Huge manhunt underway for suspected attacker

A massive manhunt is underway-as Belgian police hunt for this man. He was caught on an airport closed circuit security camera this morning, walking beside two other suspects.

Moments later two bombs exploded. The third failed to detonate. There were scenes of chaos as passengers fled in panic through dust and debris. Witnesses say it was like a "scene from a war."

"I just went to the toilet and then like after five minutes I hear an explosion and all the ceilings is going down and then I just go under the sink and then the second explosion went and then everything is black. And I see, when I go out I see a lot of people with blood and I just go, just run out of the airport. Yeah, and all the building there is like chaos there," said Winnie Atutubo, eyewitness.

An hour later-another explosion ripped through a metro train in the center of Brussels. The Islamic State militant group claimed responsibility for the attacks.

Europe has been bracing itself for an attack like this for weeks. As the Belgium Prime Minister put it.

"We feared a terrorist attack would happen and this is what happened," said Charles Michel, Belgium Prime Minister.

In the coming days there will be questions-mainly, how did security officials fail to prevent this attack?

The attacks come just days after the only surviving fugitive from the Paris massacres - Salah Abdeslam - was arrested here in Brussels. He reportedly told investigators over the weekend that he was planning fresh attacks and authorities here now fear they may be yet more to come.