http://pchrgaza.org/en/?p=1552
202
20
Print

Ref:

162/2014

PCHR warmly welcomes the efforts made by the Swiss

Government to convene a conference of the High Contracting Parties to the

Fourth Geneva Convention at this critical time for the Palestinian people.

This Conference provides an opportunity for the High

Contracting Parties to fulfill their obligation to ‘ensure respect’ for the

Geneva Conventions in all circumstances and to carry out their legal duties as

stated in Article 1 of the Convention. It is imperative that the proposed

conference be held and that it results in a series of clear and practical steps

intended to ensure Israel’s compliance with international humanitarian law,

together with enforcement measures designed to ensure Israel’s de jure application of the convention

and its accountability.

International humanitarian law – and the Fourth Geneva

Convention in particular – extend specific and explicit protections to civilian

populations. To date, however, Israel has not been held to account for

systematic violations of international law committed in occupied Palestine. As

noted in the Goldstone Report (2009), the “prolonged situation of impunity has

created a justice crisis in the Occupied Palestinian Territory that warrants

action.”The result has been an escalating cycle of violence as graphically

demonstrated by the recent offensive on the Gaza Strip (codenamed Operation

Protective Edge) that resulted in2193 deaths, 1682 of which were civilian.

It is evident that if the law is to be respected, it must

be enforced. Previous conferences of the High Contracting Parties, convened in

1999 and 2001, have failed to result in a meaningful outcome. Political

considerations and compromise have been favored over equal application of the

law with the pursuit of an elusive ‘peace process’ proffered as a reason for

not pursuing justice. Now there is neither peace nor justice for the

Palestinian people.

It is imperative that this conference overcomes politically

motivated opposition, and that all High Contracting Parties fulfill their

binding legal obligation to ensure respect for the law of armed conflict, and

to pursue accountability in the event that this law is violated. This

conference must result in clear outcomes intended to ensure respect for

international law and the protection of civilian populations. Failure to do so

will result in a denial of Palestinians’ fundamental rights, and undermine the

utility and validity of international law.

The latest conference, scheduled for the 17thDecember

in Geneva, will reportedly address conditions in the West Bank, the Gaza Strip

and East Jerusalem–all of critical importance, particularly in the aftermath of

the events of this summer in which war crimes and crimes against humanity have

been committed on an unprecedented scale- in terms of the level of deaths,

injuries and destruction of civilians and civilian objects in the Occupied

Palestinian Territories.

In Gaza, Israel’s crippling and illegal closure is now in

its 7th year. The closure constitutes a catastrophic man-made

disaster that has resulted in widespread suffering – 90% of the people of Gaza

are living beneath the poverty line, 80% of the population are dependent on food

aid from the UN while 60% of the workforce are unpaid or unemployed. According

to the International Committee of the Red Cross, the closure “constitutes a

collective punishment imposed in clear violation of Israel’s obligations under

international humanitarian law". Specifically the closure regime violates

a number of principles of international humanitarian law; inter alia, Article 43 of the Hague Regulations, and Articles 33,

55 and 56 of the Fourth Geneva Convention.

This summer Israel

launched its third offensive on Gaza in six years -a massive and unprecedented

onslaught in which civilians and civilian objects were in the eye of the storm.

Entire neighborhoods were erased in Shujaiya, Beit Hanoun, Zanna and Khuzaa.

Whole families were wiped out. Schools being used as civilian shelters were

targeted, as were hospitals, houses, factories, power plants, sewage plants,

and water storage facilities. Medical personnel, ambulances and journalists

were attacked. The onslaught that was unleashed on a closed-in half-starved

civilian population by one of the world’s military superpowers led to 2,193

deaths, 10,8950 injuries, 540,000 refugees of whom more than 110,000 are still

homeless as a result of the destruction of their houses. Three months after the

offensive and the siege of Gaza continues, becoming increasingly

institutionalized; there is no reconstruction and no national unity government.

The situation is disastrous.

Now in its 47thyear of occupation – the longest in modern history – Israel continues

the ethnic cleansing and colonization of Jerusalem and the West Bank, through

an extensive programme of settlement-building in the West Bank and the

annexation and Judaization of East Jerusalem. In the Al Aqsa Compound,

Palestinians are subjected to ongoing restrictions and almost daily attacks. An

unparalleled apartheid regime is being established in Occupied Palestine.

Despite the illegality of Israel’s acts under the Fourth Geneva Convention,

there has been no effective action taken by the international community to

enforce the rule of law.

PCHR has consistently highlighted the deterioration of the

human rights and humanitarian situation in Occupied Palestine and has twice

played a key role in the convening of the conference of the High Contracting

Parties to the Fourth Geneva Convention in order to ensure respect for the

Convention and Israel’s compliance with international law as an occupying

power, upholding its duties and responsibilities.

The history of the occupation has shown that as long as Israel

continues to act as a State above the law, it will continue to violate

international law. Innocent Palestinian civilians, the ‘protected persons’ of

the Geneva Conventions, continue to pay the price for Israel’s impunity, the

result of both the indifference and political expedience of the international

community.

PCHR demands an end

to the attempts by Israel and its allies to subvert the course of justice for

the Palestinian people through exerting political pressure and seeking to place

obstacles in the path of justice. Most recently Israel has refused entry to

Gaza for United Nations Human Rights investigators, mandated by the UN Human

Rights Council. The UN team was tasked with conducting an investigation into

"all violations of international humanitarian law and international human

rights law in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and

the occupied Gaza Strip in the context of military operations conducted since

mid June.”

Switzerland’s

convening of this conference of the High Contracting Parties to the Geneva

Conventions offers a precious opportunity to develop international humanitarian

law and to ensure that it remains capable of serving those it is mandated to

protect, and who, in the case of Palestinians, it has

failed so badly until now.

Unless international law is evenly applied, it has no

meaning. The Palestinian people need justice and dignity, not the law of the

jungle. It is our express hope that the High Contracting Parties stand for

their legal obligations as outlined in Article 1 of the Geneva Convention.

For

more information, see the position paper.