http://www.onlinenigeria.com/general/32040-the-truth-glares-an-indictment-of-the-nigerian-%E2%80%9Carmy%E2%80%9D.html
202
20
Home | General | The Truth Glares: An Indictment Of The Nigerian “Army”

By: Hersha Terhemba

Event’s of the 12th& 14th December 2015 earned a place in the registry of

infamous happenings in the history of this country. The unfortunate events

saw beasts clad in “army” uniform unleash violence against Nigerians, who

are also Shia Muslims by religious persuasion.

The violence that was melted against these individuals is reminiscent of

the My Lai Massacre of 16th March 1968 in Son Tinh District of South

Vietnam, when a task force from the United States Army Americal Division

massacred unarmed civilians with a disputed casualty figure. This massacre

shares similar triats with the Zaria massacre in that the scale of

violence was enormous and disproportionate, there has been a deliberate

cover-up by the authorities.

The Zaria massacre was a premeditated attack against against members of

the Islamic Movement Of Nigeria(IMN) by the Nigerian “Army”. The “army”

claimed that there was an assassination attempt against the “Chief Of Army

Staff” Tukur Buratai, where it later released an edited video to justify

their dastardly act. Human Right Watch described the killings as a

“terrible carnage” and “unjustifiable”. Daniel Bekele, the African

director of the group said “the Nigerian military’s version of events does

not stack up”.

His Eminence Sheikh Ibrahim El Zakzaky was shot four times during the

attack escaped death by the whiskers, and has since been held

incommunicado by the Nigerian authorities. One Nasir El Rufia, the

“Governor” of Kaduna State where the massacre took place, supported this

vampires, and subsequently claimed to have instituted a sham Judicial

Commission Of Inquiry to investigate the genocide. It is important to note

that the findings of this commission has been predetermined, and it will

be a hoax for anyone to believe it can offer anything credible.

The concerted cover-up by the “army” hierarchy is deplorable and

unbecoming of an “army” that said it acted “professionally”. Amnesty

International in a newly released report about the massacre said it was

able to uncover evidence of a possible mass grave in Mando Zaria with the

aid of satellite imaging. In its report titled “Unearthing The Truth:

Unlawful Killings and Mass Cover-Up in Zaria” is based on interviews it

held with 92 people including victims, witnesses from the Shiite and other

communities, relatives of victims, residents, lawyers and medical

personnel contains shocking eyewitness testimony of large scale unlawful

killings.

The report highlights the agony of relatives of victims of the massacre,

which the Buhari led government has continued to deny. With the plethora

of evidence against this “army” and the dragging to the ICC of President.

muhammadu Buhari, Nasir El Rufia, Tukur Buratai and others by the Islamic

Human Rights Commission(a UK based Muslim advocacy organization), the

calls for the prosecution of these war criminals will further receive a

boost with these revelations.

The ICC has announced the commencement of detailed investigations into the

killings in line with part 2, article 5 of the Rome Stature establishing

the court. Hopefully by the end of its investigations, international

arrests warrants would be issued out for these war criminals. The victims,

survivors and their loved ones whose lives have been shattered will find

succour only when justice is dispensed. I conclude with Elie Wiesel’s

words “there may be times when we are powerless to prevent injustice, but

there must never be a time when we fail to protest”.

Rate this article 0

CLICK HERE TO READ MORE FROM: General