http://nationalmirroronline.net/new/enugu-massacre-security-agencies-have-questions-to-answer/
202
20
Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State, yesterday declared that security agencies in the state owed Nigerians answer to the killings at Nimbo community in the state by Fulani herdsmen. Ugwuanyi stated this while addressing the people of the State over the carnage at Nimbo. He equally announced the constitution of a judicial commission of inquiry over the incident. It would be recalled that the herdsmen stormed the community in the early hours of Monday, killed several persons, injured others and destroyed properties.

The Governor spoke at the Government House in a solemn session attended by several leaders in the State, including the Deputy Senate President, Chief Ike Ekweremadu, other senators and members of the House of Representatives from the State, the Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Hon. Eugene Odo, former information minister, Chief Nnia Nwodo, among others. Speaking in an angry tone, Governor Ifeanyi said security agencies owed Nigerians explanation over the attack. “On Sunday, April 24, 2016, by 7 pm, the night before this carnage took place, I got security information from Uzo-Uwani Local Government Transition Chairman, Hon. Cornell Onwubuya that such an incident was likely to take place in the state.

“I immediately summoned a meeting of the State Security Council which commenced by 10 pm. “In the meeting, we received assurances from the Commissioner of Police that the Area Commander of SARS was on ground in Nimbo. “That the Anti-Terrorism Unit was at Nimbo “That he was in contact with the Kogi State Commissioner of Police and reported suspected herdsmen grouping at Odolu in Kogi State preparatory for an attack on Nimbo and Abbi communities “That Police mobile force and conventional police were already drafted to Nimbo and Abbi communities. “That he was in touch with the Area Commander, Idah, ACP Ikegwuonwu and had linked him with the Area Commander, Nsukka, ACP Monday Kuryas. Both men according to the CP reported that there were no traces of suspected herdsmen in Nsukka or Idah. “That he ordered the Area Commander, Nsukka to redeploy to Nimbo.”

He further noted that “the Garrison Commander on his part assured the meeting that Military was already deployed to Nimbo”, adding that “the State Government provided logistics for these deployments.” “Sadly, in the early hours of Monday reports of this carnage reached me. More disturbing was the report that the attack of innocent and defenceless citizens were carried out at about 6 30 am. Further reports available to me indicate that apart from the killing and maiming of innocent and defenceless citizens of Nimbo a Church was also burnt. Following this development, I engaged the security agencies in order to ensure that the Nimbo area was secured from further attacks that might escalate the situation. “On Tuesday, April 26, 2016, I visited Nimbo in order to establish firsthand the extent of carnage. My visit to Nimbo was revealing.

I came face to face with the wounded and bereaved. I saw burnt and damaged personage of Christ Holy Church. I saw a traumatized community in shock and despair. I saw a dead body. I wept. I wondered what has become of our quest for a united, peaceful and prosperous nation. Our first national anthem had a phrase which went thus: ‘though tribe and tongue may differ, in brotherhood we stand.’ “Only two weeks ago we gave a posthumous award to Alhaji Umaru Altine, a Katsina born Muslim who was elected mayor of Enugu before the Civil War, in the period that Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe was leader of the NCNC.

“Now in less than three months, violent clashes have occurred in Enugu State in Awgu, Nike, Abbi and Nimbo between suspected Fulani Herdsmen and our people. This situation cannot be allowed to continue