http://edmontonjournal.com/news/local-news/edmonton-parents-question-fate-of-special-arts-language-and-religious-school-programs
202
20
Parents with children in specialized programs at 15 Edmonton public schools with uncertain fates are apprehensive about the future of special classes available close to home.

Seven-year-old Carver Berezowsky has transformed into a confident first grader from a shy preschooler after nearly two years in Afton School’s arts core program, said his father Mike Berezowsky.

“He’s doing incredibly well in school, because it engages him, and it challenges him. We’d be very concerned if the arts programming’s at risk.”

Edmonton Public Schools announced Wednesday it has community meetings planned in the Westlawn, Britannia and Rosslyn areas, where 15 aging buildings are underused and costly to maintain, said Chris Wright, managing director of infrastructure for the division.

In other neighbourhoods where the school division has called similar meetings, the school board approved plans to build new, consolidated schools to replace the older buildings.

Other mature neighbourhoods may soon grapple with similar questions as part of the school division’s plan to have all 93,000 pupils learning in new or substantially upgraded buildings by 2024.

Their strong belief in the developmental benefits of an arts-enriched education prompt Elvira and Mike Berezowsky to drive Carver to Afton School from their home in the Dechene neighbourhood.

Dance, music, visual art and drama are all integrated into the curriculum at Afton. In Grade 2, Carver will begin learning to play an instrument. His dad hopes long bus rides aren’t in his son’s future.

“I really want to get some assurances that the programming will be maintained and that we have access to that in the west end,” Berezowsky said.

The Pearse family, likewise, moved to the Kensington neighbourhood 16 years ago to be close to a school that offered the Logos Christian program. All 10 of Anita Pearse’s children have attended Kensington School, and her two youngest remain there. Youngstown and Britannia schools also offer the Logos program.

Other schools with questionable futures have special programs, too. Sherwood School offers the Opportunities program for children with mild developmental disabilities, and Spanish language and culture programs for children in Grades 3 to 6.

Calder School has 75 students enrolled in an Arabic bilingual program. Meanwhile, 124 children in Scott Robertson school and another 123 at Mayfield school are enrolled in the early education program for children with challenges such as autism spectrum and fetal alcohol spectrum disorders.

At Rosslyn Junior High, 82 students take an academically accelerated pre-advanced placement program. Another 68 middle-years students are in the Mandarin bilingual program.

Wright had said part of the consultations is to hear what programs in affected schools are important to families.

“We are still at the very early/preliminary stages on this topic,” wrote spokeswoman Raquel Maurier in an email. “The first public meetings will soon be held and no decisions or pre-determinations have been made.”

Maurier said the division will have more information in May after feedback from the March public meetings is compiled.

The community meetings are scheduled for March 10, 14, and 15.

jfrench@postmedia.com

Twitter.com/jantafrench