http://www.dailywire.com/news/9654/russia-suspends-weapons-grade-plutonium-nuclear-joshua-yasmeh
202
20
Russia Suspends Weapons-Grade Plutonium Nuclear Pact After US Cuts Off Talks Over Syria. Because Why Not?

October 3, 2016

On Monday, Russian President Vladimir Putin reversed years of post-Cold War era rapprochement with the world’s remaining superpower, suspending a pact with the United States to dispose of surplus plutonium.

With a tsar-like decree, Putin made clear that he was willing to use all tools at his disposal, including the historically-contentious issue of nuclear disarmament, to push back against US policy in Syria and Ukraine.

This latest move by Moscow appears to be a response to Washington’s decision to suspend bilateral contact over Russia’s scorched earth air campaign in Syria. Over the last few days, Russian pilots in coordination with the Syrian air force have unloaded a staggering number of deadly incendiary devices and high-payload bunker-busting bombs over the besieged city of East Aleppo, slaughtering countless civilians.

While both Russia and Syria claim they are targeting “terrorist” groups, namely Jabhat Fateh al-Sham, formerly known as the al-Qaeda linked al-Nusra front, the sheer carnage on the streets tells a different story. Either the bombers are showing profound disregard for civilian life or they’re deliberately targeting civilians. Previous bombing campaigns targeted at hospitals and medical facilities suggest that the latter is true. In addition, Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad’s irrefutable deployment of chemical weapons, including chlorine and sarin gas, in civilian centers across the country raises the shadow of genocide over the five-year-long civil war.

But even as Russia effectively assumed the role of patron, buttressing the butcher of Damascus with obstructionist rhetoric and firepower on the battlefield, America’s chief diplomat, Secretary of State John Kerry, attempted to play nice with his supposed comrades. Week after week, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov promised self-evidently improbable ceasefire arrangements and fake concessions. And week after week, Kerry would take the bait. In effect, the US State Department was paraded around like a deranged bull being led by a skilled matador.

It was only after Russia helped turn Aleppo into a virtual “kill box” over the weekend that the United States finally decided Moscow perhaps isn’t the “peaceful negotiating partner” it had hoped it would be.

On Monday, the US announced it was "suspending its participation in bilateral channels with Russia" in response to last week’s bloody massacre of civilians in Aleppo.

"Everybody's patience with Russia has run out," stated White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest. Russia has lost all credibility by "making a series of commitments without any indication they were committed to following them.” Both Russia and Syria are trying "to bomb civilian populations into submission," he added.

The fact that the Russians responded to the diplomatic row by invoking its history of nuclear provocation with the United States tells you everything you need to know about Putin’s increasingly audacious mindset after nearly eight years of a feckless Obama presidency.

"The Obama administration has done everything in its power to destroy the atmosphere of trust which could have encouraged cooperation," said Russian foreign ministry said in a statement Monday. "The step Russia has been forced to take is not intended to worsen relations with the United States. We want Washington to understand that you cannot, with one hand, introduce sanctions against us where it can be done fairly painlessly for the Americans, and with the other hand continue selective cooperation in areas where it suits them."

Translation: We have no respect for you. Syria is our playground, and we both know you aren’t willing to do a damn thing to stop it.

If that wasn’t enough, Putin issued a draft law to parliament that prominently featured a long list of grievances against the United States.

"It said conditions for resuming work under the plutonium deal included Washington lifting sanctions imposed on Russia over its role in the Ukraine conflict, paying compensation to Moscow for the sanctions, and reducing the U.S. military presence in eastern Europe to the levels they were 16 years ago," reports Reuters. "Any of those steps would involve a complete U-turn in long-standing U.S. policy."

To sum up, the Russians are toying with the possibility of using weapons-grade plutonium as a bargaining chip against the United States. In response, the Obama administration is issuing stern letters and "strong" statements.