http://en.farsnews.com/newstext.aspx?nn=13950523000656
130
13
World

Thousands of Saudi-Backed Terrorists Ready to Enter Syria via Border with Jordan

TEHRAN (FNA)- Saudi intelligence officers have been training at least 7,000 anti-Syria fighters in Jordan's territories and plan to dispatch them to the war-hit country via its Southern borders to distract the army from the war in Aleppo, Arab media disclosed.

"Over 7,000 men have been trained in a Saudi-established military camp in Jordan near the border with Syria's Dara'a province, and now they are ready to be dispatched to join other terrorists' battle against the Syrian government and army," the Lebanese al-Manar reported.

"There are several British and western military trainers and advisors in the Saudi-established camp. The western officers are to accompany the fighters in their war against the Syrian government," the paper said.

Jordan hosts a large refugee camp near the border with Syria.

Other sources also disclosed that the US officers have been involved in training of terrorists in Jordan to fight against Syrian government.

War analysts believe that the move is aimed at diversion to distract the army and its allies from the war in Aleppo in the North where pro-government troops have started massive offensive to take back the country's second largest city from the terrorists.

Meantime, earlier today armed opposition groups in Southern Syria declared that thousands of militants are ready to reconcile with the Damascus government.

A provincial council affiliated to the militant groups in a statement admitted that 25,000 militants are looking for reconciliation with the Syrian government forces in Southern Syria, al-Mayadeen TV channel reported on Saturday.

The statement by the 'Council for Men of Knowledge in the Levant' has accused the terrorist commanders willing to compromise with the Syrian army of treason.

It has given the militant commanders in Southern Syria three days to withdraw from al-Mouk Operations Room (which operates under the Saudi, Qatari, the US and Jordanian spy agencies), the television added.

The Al-Mouk Operations Room has been accused of corruption, similar reports in a number of other Arab media have cited the financial corruption of the Operations Room members as a main cause of the militants complaint and their decision to surrender to the Syrian army.

Early in August, around 1,000 rebels laid down their arms and turned themselves in to the Syrian officials in the province of Dara'a amid the terrorist groups' threats against those who surrender to the government.

In February, the Syrian Army dispatched more soldiers to the country's Southern provinces to be deployed at the border with Jordan to defend the country against the possible aggression of the Saudi Army.

"A large convoy of reinforcements from the Syrian capital of Damascus arrived to the 5th Armored Division headquarters of the Syrian army in the town of Izra in the Northern part of Dara'a province and the Eastern part of Sheikh Meskeen," the sources said.

"The Saudi Army has been conducting a number of military drills in the Kingdom of Jordan in recent weeks, raising the alert level of a possible war in the Dara’a province," the sources said, adding, "So far, nothing has come of these Saudi military drills and it is very unlikely that they will attempt to enter Syria."