http://www.arminfo.info/index.cfm?objectid=C0E4C5C0-DEEA-11E5-9F430EB7C0D21663
202
20
Monday, February 29 2016

An event commemorating the innocent victims of the Sumgait pogroms (Feb 27-29, 1998, Azerbaijan) was held at the Armenian Apostolic Church temple complex in Moscow on February 28.

According to the Armenian Foreign Ministry press-office, Armenia's Ambassador to Russia Oleg Yesayan, Leader of the Russian Diocese of the Armenian Apostolic Church archbishop Ezras Nersisyan, Armenia's representative at the CSTO David Virabyan, representative of the Nagorny Karabakh Republic in Russia Albert Andryan and the staff of the Armenian Embassy in Russia attended the event. In his speech, Ambassador Yesayan said the crime against humanity that was committed 28 years ago with the connivance of the Azerbaijani authorities will not be forgotten. "The Armenian people will be transferring this information from generation to generation until it receives a political, legal, and moral assessment," he said. The diplomat recalled that the pogroms in Sumgait and other cities in Azerbaijan aimed to prevent NKR's independence.

February 20, 1988 in line with the Constitution and then effective legislation of the USSR, the former Nagorno Karabakh Autonomous Oblast Regional Council basing on the will of the Armenia population on the region submitted a petition to the Supreme Councils of the Azerbaijani SSR and Armenian SSR on the secession of the Nagorno Karabakh Autonomous Oblast from Soviet Azerbaijan and its transfer to Soviet Armenia. In response to that legal demand, the Azerbaijani authorities started repressions. On February 26- 28 1988 the Azerbaijani authorities planned and committed massacre of the Armenian population in Sumgait, which is provide by thousands of evidences.

The Sumgait pogrom (also known as the Sumgait Massacre or February Events) was a pogrom that targeted the Armenian population of the seaside town of Sumgait in Soviet Azerbaijan during February 1988. On February 27, 1988, mobs made up largely of ethnic Azeris formed into groups that went on to attack and kill Armenians both on the streets and in their apartments; widespread looting and a general lack of concern from police officers allowed the situation to worsen. The violence in Sumgait was unprecedented in scope in the Soviet Union and received heavy coverage in the Western media. A number of international and Soviet sources described the events as genocide of the Armenian population.

On February 28, a small contingent of MVD troops entered the city and unsuccessfully attempted to quell the rioting. The situation was finally defused when more professional military units entered with tanks and other armored vehicles one day later. The forces sent by the government imposed a state of martial law in Sumgait, established a curfew, and brought the crisis to an end.

After Sumgait dozens of organizers of that tragedy occurred in the Soviet courts, but only one of the organizers was sentenced to life imprisonment, but was released later. Meanwhile, the true organizers and executors of the mass killings of peaceful Armenians, in the face of the National Front of Azerbaijan and Abulfaz Elcibey, avoided punishment and even came to power amid chauvinistic and anti-Armenians sentiments in the Azerbaijani public. This impunity led to genocidal actions in Baku, Maragha and dozens of peaceful villages and towns populated with Armenians. Twenty-six years have passed since Sumgait tragedy and the value system of brutal murderers killing and burning Armenians in 1988 has just gone deep into the state policy of Azerbaijan.