http://www.thestandard.com.ph/opinion/columns/to-the-point-by-emil-jurado/196549/the-365-club-s-new-venue.html
202
20
TWO succeeding events at the end of last year somewhat dampened my “Happy New Year” spirit for the year 2016.

First is the death of a beloved Salesian priest. The Italian Adolf Faroni was my confessor and spiritual adviser while I was still living at Ecology Village. Father Faroni lived to be 93 years old. Up to his last day, he was still hearing confessions at the Don Bosco Church.

Second is the closure of the Hotel Intercontinental.

The Intercon, where the Jeepney coffee shop was located, opened its doors to the public on April 15,1969. The Ayalas built it. It became the home of the 365 Club which I co-founded with the late columnist Teodoro “Ka Doroy” Valencia on the day the late strongman Ferdinand Marcos proclaimed Martial Law in 1972.

The Hotel Intercon closed Dec. 31 because it will be demolished (in fact, the whole block of the hotel and the parking lot behind it have to be demolished). In its place will stand a terminal hub cum business and residential area. This will take three years to finish.

It was a sad day, not only for the hotel staff and employees, its customers who love going to Prince Albert that served succulent imported steaks, the porters, the waiters of the coffee shop—especially George who patiently served for the past 43 years.

I had already thanked the Hotel Intercon management staff led by our friend, Christian Peridon. For many years, they tolerated our noise.

We are thankful that Peridon, manager of Intercontinental Hotels Group, invited the 365 Club to the Holiday Inn and Suites Makati as the new venue of the Club.

The 365 Club is an informal gathering of journalists and media people, with professionals, businessmen, past and present government officials, politicians, PR people, lobbyists and anybody else who wants to be heard. Sometimes they are hangers-on.

Last Jan. 9, the 365 Club convened again at Holiday Inn & Suites coffee shop with myself as chairman emeritus, chairman-president lawyer-businessman Alfonso “Boy” Reyno and our voluntary and perennial secretary-treasurer Maloli Espinosa Supnet, leading the group. We however, missed Senator Juan Ponce Enrile, a regular. He must have been very busy with the reopening of the Mamasapano massacre being scheduled on Jan. 25 at the Senate.

I would like to take note of these who were there, like former Nueva Ecija Rep. Rene Diaz, former Ambassador Andy del Rosario who now writes for The Standard, Roy Sinfuego of The Manila Bulletin, an original of the Club, his wife Doris, originals Cecil Arillo, Bert Lumauig, Linggoy Alcuaz, Eric San Juan, Ruben Ilagan, Rene Golangco, Jess Disini, Jimmy Abastillas, Ding Torreno, Oni Alcala, Jimmy Abastillas, all originals, Macey Ariola, Gina Lumauig, Roger Rabanal. Floyd Punongbayan, Lito Partido, Jun Sasinarin, Roger Rabanal, among others.

As usual, Manila Times chairman Emeritus Dante Arevalo Ang was there. There was also a time when Malaya publisher and editor-in-chief Jake Macasaet, and Manila Bulletin editor-in-chief Jun Icban were regulars, but we have missed them.

It’s KKB (kanya-kanyang bayad) during our gatherings unless a generous soul offers to pick up the tab.

Our new venue is relaxing, with no less than Franck Merot, vice executive assistant manager, and Maricor Aquino, area director of Sales and Marketing-Philippines, meeting us there.

Our informal gatherings used to be on a daily basis, but along the way, most of the regulars came only on Saturdays because of conflicting schedules.

* * *

Just as I was about to finish this column to meet its deadline, I was told that my dear friend and colleague in the press, Nap Rama, died. Nap is not as old as I am, at 88 years, but when you reach 80, you should realize you are in the departure area, waiting for the last call to board the plane for the Great Beyond.

I had known Nap since when he was writing for the old Free Press owned by the late Teodoro Locsin, Teddyboy Locsin’s late father. I admired Nap’s exposés. The Free Press was known then for its fearless exposés.

Later on, Nap became publisher of Don Emilio Yap’s Manila Bulletin. I still recall that time when he invited me to write for the Bulletin. I demurred since I was columnist and chairman of the Manila Standard editorial board.

My wife is a good friend of Lady Rama, Nap’s better half. I condole with the family. Another press icon will be missed.

* * *

The row between Comelec Chairman Andres Bautista and Commissioner Rowena Guanzon has to be ironed out soonest possible time, for the good of the commission. This is not good for the Comelec, whose mandate is to give the people an honest, fair and clean elections this year.

More importantly, the job description of the Comelec chairman and six other commissioners must be made clear in the wake of the statement of Bautista that Guanzon did not clear her comment to the Supreme Court over the disqualification of Mrs. Mary Grace Natividad Kelly Poe Llamanzares.

In a way, Guanzon was correct in stating that she is not an employee of Chairman Bautista that she should bow to his wishes. Bautista and all the other six commissioners have equal rights and duties and should not be considered less in power and duties than the Comelec chairman. Besides, as Guanzon said, the Comelec en banc had already authorized her to make that comment before the Supreme Court. There was the element of time to be considered.

Bautista for his part was also correct that Guanzon should have allowed the Comelec chairman to sign her comment being the commission chairman. I have been chairman of a private corporation Board of Directors, and I know that out of courtesy, Santa Banana, any action or comment by a board member should at least be known to me out of courtesy.

Still, for a chairman of the board to say that he can remove the authority of Guanzon’s comments approved en banc by the commission adds confusion to an already confused situation. Bautista had dissented from a majority decision disqualifying Mrs. Llamanzares for her residency and citizenship issues. Bautista statements would make the public believe that he is trying to protect Mrs. Llamanzares.

The job and duties of the Comelec chairman must be clarified. As chairman, he has the power to call a board meeting, and during voting he can vote to break a deadlock. He also has the right to vote if needed. A chairman is administratively empowered to clear his desk of administrative duties like taking care of the budget, providing salaries of employees and other administrative duties hiring and firing people.

But, it must be made clear that a Comelec commissioner is not beholden to the chairman and can vote the way he/she wishes.

Bautista and Guanzon must clear the air about this issue for the common good.

***

Many questions have been raised as a result of President Aquino’s statements that the reopening of the Mamasapano massacre by the Senate is “politically motivated.” Senate Minority Leader Juan Ponce Enrile had wanted to ask more questions about the slaughter of 44 police commandos. Enrile was under detention when this was first investigated by the Senate.

There are also questions on the motives of Mrs. Llamanzares reopening the probe because she is running for president, and that the Senate was being used for campaign purposes.

Thus, Santa Banana, foremost among the questions being asked is: “Why is BS Aquino III so touchy about the Senate reopening the Mamasapano massacre? Are the President and the Liberal Party hiding something that the people do not know?”

Personally, I would like to know why the Armed Forces of the Philippines failed to respond to the call for assistance by the “Fallen 44,” when the military could have done so.

As Commander-in-Chief, BS Aquino III has a lot of explaining to do. And by the way, why have the relatives, survivors and others not been given the justice they deserve with not one of those charged with the slaughter being charged in court?