http://www.democratandchronicle.com/story/news/2016/02/29/father-va-tech-massacre-victim-speak-rochester-peter-read-mary-read/81075248/
203
20
Mary and Peter Read at Mary's high school graduation. (Photo: Provided photo)

Peter Read has imagined when he and his late daughter, Mary, reunite.

What do you say to the 19-year-old daughter who, when you last saw her, was returning to her freshman year of college, a piece of pumpkin pie she'd baked in a container and her zeal for life was youthful and exuberant?

What do you say about how she died, about how she was murdered in the worst massacre in U.S. history by a single gunman, the April 16, 2007, killings of 32 students and teachers at Virginia Tech in Blacksburg, Virginia?

Read is convinced he and his daughter will meet in the afterlife. "The question is kind of always in the back of my mind," he said. "What do I tell her? What do I tell her I've done?

"She knows I love her ... but what do you do to turn that love into something meaningful, into some action that keeps others from joining this club that no one wants to be a part of," said Read, who will speak Tuesday at noon at the Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County.

For Read, a 53-year-old retired Air Force lieutenant colonel, he has decided that he must use his daughter's death, as painful as it is to revisit those dark days, as a platform for what he promotes as common-sense gun control measures.

Firearms are not an anathema to Read, who carried automatic and semiautomatic weapons while serving in Desert Storm. But, he said, he sees elected officials wary of supporting some measures — like universal background checks for firearms .

"This is not and should not be an issue of who likes guns and who doesn’t like guns, who uses them and who's afraid of them," he said in a telephone interview Sunday from his home in Annandale, Virginia.

Many who oppose more gun control measures say that, first and foremost, existing laws should be strengthened for those who use guns in a crime. Read does not disagree, but maintains that smarter gun laws could help prevent guns from falling into the wrong hands in the first place.

Some gun control opponents foresee background checks as a plan leading "to confiscation, which there is no evidence for because it's not true," said Read, who grew up in the Rochester region and still has extensive family here.

Even in a telephone conversation, it is apparent his daughter's death remains close. When Read speaks of laws and legislatures, his is the assured voice of an advocate who believes reason to be on his side. When he speaks of Mary, his voice softens, the pauses deepen, as if the loss is a weight upon his words.

Mary "was always looking to find how do you make someone happier, how do you make someone's day better," Read said.

"Many Northern Virginia high schools were social petri dishes. There's all kinds of cliques and factions. Mary was kind of a unique person. She cut across all those chasms."

At Annandale High School, she played lacrosse, was band president and was enrolled in the academically challenging International Baccalaureate Program.

She'd struggled some in her first semester in college but seemed to have found her footing when she returned for the second. She was mapping out a route toward a career in elementary education.

The day of the massacre, she was selected as a Bible study leader for Virginia Tech's Campus Crusade for Christ. "We don't know if she ever found out," her father said.

Mary was in French class when the gunman, Seung-Hui Cho, a senior at Virginia Tech, burst in. He killed 12 in the room, including the professor and Mary, before killing himself.

Having heard the news about the mass shooting, Read tried to reach his daughter via her cell phone, but had no luck. Friends offered to drive him to the university. En route, his wife called, telling him that the State Police had just shown up at the door.

Mary was dead.

Months later, Read and other families of Virginia Tech victims decided that they could not stay silent. "It's all happening at the same time we're going through a very raw grieving process," Read said.

In 2005, well before his rampage, Cho had been evaluated at a mental health facility after he was accused of stalking women and after he made suicidal remarks. But he was not ordered into inpatient treatment, which could have prompted a report that would have been seen when he bought guns in 2007.

His firearms purchases were legal. He picked up one gun from a licensed dealer after ordering it online and another more than a month later from a firearms store. A quick State Police background check raised no red flags.

Since the killings, Read said, lawmakers have been willing to study campus security and mental health concerns, while keeping their distance from some gun control measures. He advocates a "public health" approach to gun violence, with intense research and sincere discussions about what legal changes could make a difference.

"In no other area would we look at this kind of constant consistent death and injury and pretend it wasn’t happening and it doesn't merit some attention," he said.

GCRAIG@Gannett.com

If you go

Read will speak at noon Tuesday at the library's Kate Gleason Auditorium, 115 South Clinton Ave. Co-presenting with Read will be retired Monroe County Sheriff's Office commander Gary Pudup, from New Yorkers Against Gun Violence.

Read or Share this story: http://on.rocne.ws/1oJYiDe