http://www.orlandosentinel.com/news/politics/political-pulse/os-rick-scotts-state-of-the-state-speech-20160112-post.html
202
20
Here is Gov. Rick Scott's State of the State speech to the Legislature today, as prepared for delivery:

Good morning Speaker Crisafulli, President Gardiner and members of the Florida Legislature. Welcome Lt. Governor Carlos Lopez-Cantera. I would also like to welcome: Attorney General Pam Bondi, Chief Financial Officer Jeff Atwater, Commissioner of Agriculture Adam Putnam, Chief Justice Labarga and members of the Florida Supreme Court.

I would like to recognize my amazing wife, Ann. She is the love of my life and my best friend. We are blessed with two wonderful daughters and four energetic grandsons. We will celebrate our 44th wedding anniversary this year.

Today marks my 262nd week in office as the Governor of the Great State of Florida, and I have had a lot of time to reflect over the past 5 years. Judging by earthly standards, Ann and I have had a good bit of success in our lives. But as I reflect on that, I realize that our time on earth is fleeting, and I am unable to do anything of lasting significance without the grace of God. I know our work that is eternal is the time we spend investing in other people – our families, for sure…But, we also do work of lasting significance when we invest in the lives of our friends and our neighbors.

I ran for Governor to help my neighbors – all 20 million of them across our great state. There are some who believe that the very best way to help people is for government to give them money. And the truth is, for those in dire need, we need to provide a safety net. With your help, we have invested Florida taxpayer dollars to make a lasting difference in the lives of Florida families.

For the first time ever, we completely funded the critical needs waiting list so persons with unique abilities can get the help they need. We made a record high investment in our education system so every child can have the opportunity to pursue their American dream. And just this year, we started a pilot program to better serve individuals who suffer with substance abuse and mental illness. These are two issues that have affected my family and many other families in our state. But, government assistance must be the very last resort, not the first. Government does not create prosperity, and it never has. Top down mandates from big government are artificial and not sustainable.

Real prosperity is created by the ingenuity and hard work of the American people. The people of Florida have proven that when they are unfettered by the artificial constraints of government, they are the ones who create real and genuine prosperity for their families. Prosperity that is created naturally, not from the top down, but rather from the bottom up. Floridians want the opportunity to live their dreams. Therefore, I believe that the best way to help our weakest, our poorest, and our most disadvantaged neighbors live their dreams is to help them get a job.

A job is the number one way to change any person’s life for the better …and today, I am proud to report to you that the State of Florida is, in one word, “growing!” Thanks to the hard-working people in our state, over one million jobs have been created in just five years since I took office. One million jobs. Now that is something for Floridians to brag about! One million jobs. Wow!

One of these amazing job creators growing our state from the bottom up is with us today. Please help me welcome the founder and CEO of Gladiator Lacrosse, Rachel Zietz from Boca Raton. Rachel is just 15 years old and she started her company when she was 13. Like any competitive athlete, Rachel said she wanted to practice lacrosse as much as possible, but she found the quality of her gear wasn’t holding up. Every few months she was purchasing more equipment…and she said it was getting expensive.

Rachel decided to do something about it and she created her own line of lacrosse gear to meet her standards. Between school, homework and lacrosse practice, Rachel now runs her own online company, which had over $ 1 million in revenue in just two years. Even more impressive, this young small business owner now has three employees that help her out while she is in class. Rachel, thank you for helping to make Florida first for jobs. We know you are just starting your success!

While, I am pleased to report to you today that the State of Florida is growing, I must confess that our work has just begun. Now, we face the mighty task of keeping job creation going strong. Now, we must set our sights even higher to make sure we do not fall back. Now, we must be dedicated to making Florida not second to Texas, but, first in the nation for job growth for years to come! Our goals are mighty, our challenge is clear. We have two objectives:

First, we must keep doing what’s worked the last five years to help Floridians get a job and live their dreams and keep cutting taxes! Second, we must diversify our economy and help small businesses grow by creating a new $250 million Florida Enterprise Fund, which has already been endorsed by mayors and city leaders all across our state.

With record state revenues, we have the opportunity to diversify our economy and help our small businesses grow by cutting taxes by $1 billion dollars. I’ve never heard of a businessperson who wanted to grow a smaller business. If we put more money in their pockets, they will spend it on research, new equipment and hiring to create more jobs.

Ann and I started our first business in Kansas City. When I was just 22 years old, I had gotten off of active duty with the US Navy, and Ann and I used $3,500 – all the money we had in savings – to open up a donut shop so my mother could get a job. It is hard work to start a business. It is risky. It is scary. I still remember it like it was yesterday.

That’s why I am asking for your support this legislative session for our first for jobs $1 Billion Tax Cut Package to cut costs for the manufacturers, the innovators and the entrepreneurs in our state who take the risks that make our economy grow and create good paying jobs. A tax cut package of $1 billion may seem like a high number, but let me put a face to this effort by introducing you to Dane Grey. Dane, please stand.