http://www.ibtimes.co.uk/will-jeremy-corbyn-challenge-theresa-may-brexit-pmqs-1585973
138
13
Jeremy Corbyn has a chance to press Theresa May more over her government's controversial Brexit plans today (12 October), with party conference season over and MPs returning to parliament.

The leaders will clash at Prime Minister's Questions (PMQs) this afternoon ahead of an Opposition Day motion from Shadow Brexit Secretary Sir Keir Starmer on the UK's divorce from the EU.

Labour has sent a list of 170 questions to Brexit Secretary David Davis ahead of the debate in a bid to find out more about the government's plans.

May has faced opposition from across the House of Commons for refusing to give parliament a say on the triggering of Article 50, the official mechanism to split form the EU.

But last night there was a climb-down from the government, with May allowing Conservative MPs to vote on a Labour motion which calls for more scrutiny.

Corbyn scored a victory at his last PMQs when he grilled May over her plans to introduce new grammar schools in England. The Tories are split on the issue, much like the UK's decision to vote to leave the EU.

The Labour leader will hope to exploit that schism when he speaks at the dispatch box.

He was given some substantial ammunition yesterday, with a leaked Treasury document warning that the UK could lose out on £66bn ($80bn) of tax revenues per year if the government conducts a "hard Brexit".

A friend of Davis told The Daily Telegraph that Treasury officials were "pulling the rug from beneath us", while Shadow Chancellor Johnson McDonnell warned that the UK did not vote for "economic misery".

"The British people voted to leave the European Union and all sides must respect that decision, but what they certainly didn't vote for was economic misery and the loss of jobs," he said.

"The Tories should be sticking to their manifesto promise and fighting tooth and nail for access to the single market. Instead they are abandoning Britain's clear national interests by putting narrow party political concerns first.

"It's time for Theresa May's government to show some responsibility and stop playing political games when our future as a country is at stake."

Follow PMQ updates at @IBTUKPolitics and watch the session live from 12pm BST on BBC Parliament, Sky News and Parliament TV.