http://radio.foxnews.com/2016/01/12/mr-president-seriously-could-you-shut-up-about-terrorists/
202
20
by John Gibson

Follow on Twitter, Facebook, listen free/live on foxnewsradio app

Anybody else noticed that President Obama has an uncanny knack for saying ISIS is a nothing-burger threat just at the moment ISIS launches an attack on unsuspecting unbelievers, like us?

The President is going on television for the State of the Union address and the White House leakage machine has given us advance notice he’s going to tell Americans they shouldn’t be so afraid, that terrorists don’t pose an existential threat to the country, and y’all are just getting whipped up by a hyperventilating media and an orange-haired Presidential wanna-be.

He even told Matt Lauer than the U.S. does not face “an existential threat.” What he means is ISIS can’t threaten the existence of the country. What he did not say to Lauer, but might in his State of The Union address, is something along these lines: “Hey, they can’t bring down the country, but yeah, they can kill a few of us here and there, in malls and holiday parties and so forth. Yeah. But don’t worry. Really.”

Well, I for one am not reassured. The 9/11 terror attack killed three thousand people but didn’t bring the country down. We got it. But three thousand people died.

The pattern is now clear: when the President says the coast is clear, duck. Lock yourself in your house until after the next ISIS bleep-you-Obama terror attack. You’d be crazy to go to a movie theater, or a mall, or an outdoor cafe for a while. Wait until someone else dies. Don’t let it be you.

Seriously, there’s a history here.

Right before the Paris massacre by ISIS he said ISIS was contained, right before San Bernardino bloodshed he said there U.S. has never been more protected. The pattern goes back to that ill advised Jayvee team remark, right before the terror group captured Fallujah in Iraq.

Now we’re going to be told, in the typical hectoring fashion of this President, that you Americans have a better chance of dying in a car wreck or drown in your bathtub than be shot up by an ISIS inspired terrorist. This comes, of course, just days after an ISIS inspired gunman attempted a brazen assassination of a cop in Philadelphia and two ISIS plotters were arrested in Sacramento and Houston.

And of course we all know terrorists are not nearly as likely to kill us than car wrecks and bathtub drownings, or for that matter, gang shootings in Chicago. But that is not the point. If automobiles had declared war on us and demonstrated their seriousness by attacking us as we drove, we would damn well do something about it, not stick our heads in the sand. If bathtubs were discovered to have the ability to plot against us and were somehow part of a declared plot to kill us when we’re just trying to enjoy a soak, we would figure out a strategy against rogue bathtubs. What we would not do is say, “Don’t worry about killer bathtubs, car wrecks are a bigger danger.”

The point is not what is more likely to kill us. The point is what are you doing, Mr. President, to stop people who are planning to kill us. Telling us to not worry, that the odds say our neighbor will be killed in a terror attack, not us–that’s not reassuring to anyone. It sounds very much like the President is dismissing the danger and willing to accept a few Americans being slaughtered instead of firmly declaring that these killers will be hunted down mercilessly.

President Obama is also going to break an arm patting himself on the back for the economy, for what he will call great job numbers.

But hang on, Mr. President. Today in the Wall Street Journal Robert Doar, head of the New York City Human Resources Administration, from 2007 to 2013, reported the enormous number of people who have permanently left the workforce because they cannot find a job is a much bigger problem than the administration is willing to admit, and that the problem was created by administration policies. Specifically, Doar says policies designed to support someone out of work have become hand-out programs to replace work. That is nothing to brag about, so expect the President to skip past it.

Another matter of the economy he is sure to sidestep: the National Association of Counties reporting that 93% of counties have not recovered from the recession, in terms of total employment, the unemployment rate, size of the economy and home values.

Thud.

No wonder so many have turned to Donald Trump. Whatever you can say about him, most people see that Obama’s impulse to brag about unacceptable situations is not the way Trump would operate.