http://www.chroniclelive.co.uk/news/north-east-news/gateshead-grandmother-remembered-memorial-service-11174883
203
20
Prime Minister David Cameron looks on as Prince Harry lays a wreath at the service of commemoration for the victims of the 2015 terrorist attacks In Tunisia at Westminster Abbey

A grandmother from Gateshead killed in the Tunisia terror attacks was remembered during a special service at Westminster Abbey.

Prince Harry joined the loved ones of Britons murdered in the attacks for the London service.

Lisa Burbidge, from Whickham, was one of the 30 Brits killed during the beach attack when Islamic terrorist Seifeddine Yacoubi slaughtered innocent holidaymakers in the resort of Sousse last June, killing 38 people in total.

The 66-year-old was enjoying a family holiday when she was shot on the tenth anniversary of her husband’s death.

Prince Harry laid a wreath at the Innocent Victims Memorial on behalf of his grandmother the Queen as he gathered with survivors and families affected by the two atrocities.

He also delivered a reading during the central London service, which was conducted by the Dean of Westminster, the Very Reverend Dr John Hall, and attended by David Cameron.

Members of public looked on outside the Abbey as Harry, wearing a dark blue suit, laid the wreath of white and yellow flowers before rising and bowing his head in a moment of silent reflection.

The circular stone and slate memorial was unveiled by the Queen in 1998 and created to remember victims of war, violence and oppression across the world.

Gareth Fuller/PA Wire Prince Harry lays a wreath on behalf of his grandmother the Queen

During the service, Harry and the Prime Minister both read Bible passages, from Revelations and Isaiah respectively, before the 900-strong congregation.

The Very Reverend Dr Hall said: “We remember with thanksgiving those whose lives were brutally cut short.

“We honour the courage of those who survived and the families of those who suffered.

“We share our grief with victims of attacks from other countries and their families.”

The attacks were the worst incident of terrorism involving British people since the July 7 attacks in London in 2005.

Gunman Seifeddine Rezgui targeted holidaymakers on the beach and in a hotel before being shot dead by security forces. Terror group Islamic State (IS) claimed responsibility.

Grandmother Lisa was well known and well liked in the Whickham community where she lived, prompting hundreds of flowers to be laid following her death.

Northumbria Police/PA Wire Lisa Burbidge

At Tuesday’s service, family and friends of the victims placed 31 candles on the altar in memory of each of those who died, before their names were read aloud by BBC security correspondent Frank Gardner.

Mr Gardner, himself shot in a terrorist attack in 2004, also spoke during the service about his experiences.

He said: “The scars that we carry for things like this are in your head, more than anywhere else.”

He added his daughter had taught him an important lesson, when she told him: “Dad, the people who did this to you, they are dead or in prison but you get to come on holiday with us.”

The congregation sung the Lord’s Prayer and the National Anthem to draw the memorial to a close.

Harry met with Abbey staff and Mr Gardner as he left the service.

The Government is to fund a permanent memorial dedicated to the victims of the Tunisian beach massacre, as well as creating a separate site of remembrance for all British nationals killed in terrorist atrocities overseas.