http://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/Cornish-hero-Tunisia-terror-attack-remembered/story-29097211-detail/story.html
201
20
A Cornish engineer killed in terror attacks in Tunisia was among those remembered at a special memorial service at Westminster Abbey today.

Stephen Mellor, 59, from Bodmin, North Cornwall died in a hail of bullets as he shielded his wife Cheryl on the beach in the Tunisian resort of Sousse.

Prince Harry laid a wreath at the Innocent Victims Memorial on behalf of his grandmother the Queen as he gathered with survivors and families affected by the two atrocities in 2015.

He also delivered a reading during the central London service, which was conducted by the Dean of Westminster, the Very Reverend Dr John Hall, and attended by David Cameron.

Members of public looked on outside the Abbey as Harry, wearing a dark blue suit, laid the wreath of white flowers before rising and bowing his head in a moment of silent reflection.

The circular stone and slate memorial was unveiled by the Queen in 1998 and created to remember victims of war, violence and oppression across the world.

During the service, Harry and the Prime Minister both read Bible passages, from Revelations and Isaiah respectively, before the 900-strong congregation.

Dr Hall said: “We remember with thanksgiving those whose lives were brutally cut short. We honour the courage of those who survived and the families of those who suffered.

“We share our grief with victims of attacks from other countries and their families.”

He said many of those attending sought the answer as to why the attacks happened, adding he did not believe the deaths were fated or were “an act of God”.

“People have to choose and have the freedom to choose. Some will follow the way of light and peace. Tragically others will follow the way of darkness and destruction,” he said.

“Our prayer today is for the defeat of darkness and destruction and that light and peace may have the victory.”

Thirty Britons were among 38 people massacred in the Tunisian resort town of Sousse in June last year – the worst incident of terrorism involving British people since the July 7 attacks in London in 2005.

Gunman Seifeddine Rezgui targeted holidaymakers on the beach and in a hotel before being shot dead by security forces. Terror group Islamic State (IS) claimed responsibility.

Three months earlier, IS terrorists opened fire on tourists at the Bardo National Museum in the capital Tunis. British tourist Sally Adey, 57, from Shropshire, was among 22 people killed.

The Government is to fund a permanent memorial dedicated to the victims of the Tunisian beach massacre, as well as creating a separate site of remembrance for all British nationals killed in terrorist atrocities overseas.