http://www.dnj.com/story/news/2016/04/12/forrest-hall-panel-deliberate-thursday/82946108/
203
20
Buy Photo Several people attended a public task force committee meeting held to address whether to keep or change the name of Forrest Hall, on Thursday March 24, 2016. (Photo: HELEN COMER/DNJ)Buy Photo

MURFREESBORO — MTSU's Forrest Hall Task Force will meet Thursday evening to debate whether to recommend a name change for the ROTC building named after a controversial Confederate general.

The 17-member panel is set to meet at 6:30 p.m. Thursday in the MT Center at the Sam Ingram Building on Middle Tennessee Boulevard, according to a news release from the university.

The meeting follows three public forums about the name of the hall dedicated for Nathan Bedford Forrest. The Thursday meeting will not include public input and is for deliberation only, said Derek Frisby, a MTSU global studies professor and the chairman of the task force.

"I think it's only prudent that we sit down with the rest of the committee to deliberate where we are and where we're headed," Frisby said in an interview.

The task force chairman said he does not expect to call a vote for any action during the Thursday meeting.

While critics have questioned Forrest's role as a leader in the Ku Klux Klan and how his troops handled the Fort Pillow massacre in West Tennessee, supporters call the Confederate general a brilliant military mind who denounced the KKK before his death.

MTSU President Sidney McPhee tasked the panel with making a recommendation about the name of the building by the end of April when he established the task force after the shooting at a historically black church in Charleston, S.C.

The task force can endorse renaming the building, keep the name "with added historical perspective" or take no action, the release stated.

If a recommendation is made to change the building name, McPhee can choose to approve it and ask the Tennessee Board of Regents to vote for a name change.

The Board of Regents and Tennessee Historical Commission must both approve a name change for Forrest Hall for it to occur.

Reach Brian Wilson at 615-278-5165. Follow him on Twitter @brianwilson17.

Read or Share this story: http://on.dnj.com/1S8iBET