http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3666724/Get-Brexit-says-Obama-Britain-quit-EU-fairly-quickly-soon-new-prime-minister-president-warns.html
130
13
President Obama called today for a swift Brexit once new leadership is in place in Great Britain.

Advising his fellow world leaders - British Prime Minister David Cameron and German Chancellor Angela Merkel - Obama said everybody should 'catch their break, come up with a plan and a process that is orderly, that is transparent, that people understand and then proceed.'

'Understanding that both sides have a stake in getting this right,' Obama said.

Noting that Cameron has decided to stop down over his country's vote to exit the European Union, Obama said that 'obviously leadership in Great Britain will have to be resolved for it to move as crisply and effectively as it needs to.'

'But I think that's recognized and that should happen fairly quickly,' the president said as he stood alongside Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto, during the North American leaders' trilateral press conference this afternoon.

Scroll down for video

President Obama doled out some advice to Prime Minister David Cameron and German Chancellor Angela Merkel today saying that the Brexit process should be orderly and transparent

President Obama stood alongside his fellow North American leaders today in Ottawa, Canada and said that the Brexit does not 'have to be a panicky process' and should happen with the quickness

Obama said the realities of the Brexit, in which Britons voted over the weekend to leave the European Union, will be a 'difficult, challenging process.'

'But it does not have to be a panicky process,' Obama said.

'I think it can be a steady, sensible process,' the president added.

Obama noted that he had spoken with Merkel and that 'her interest is not in retribution.'

'Her interest is in making sure that the process works and I have a lot of confidence in people being able to do that,' Obama said.

He also pledged the United States' support to help facilitate the UK breaking away from the EU.

The U.S. president at the same time held up the chaos in the wake of Brexit as a reason why citizens of North America should resist the urge to adopt isolationist policies.

'The next day 'people looked around and said, "oh, how's this gonna work?" ' he told Canadian lawmakers on Wednesday evening in an address to parliament.

Sizing up the frustration that led to the country's exit from the European Union, Obama told lawmakers 'people will push back out of anger or out of fear and politicians, some sincere, and some entirely cynical will tap that anger and fear, hearkening back to bygone days of order and predictability and national glory.

'Arguing that we must rebuild walls and disengage from a chaotic world or rid ourselves of the supposed ills brought on by immigrants, all in order to regain control of our lives,' he said.

Obama said the circumstances on that referendum 'may be unique' to the UK, but 'the frustrations people felt are not.'

And while the short-term fallout of Brexit can be managed the long-term trends of inequality and dislocation, 'those can't be ignored.'

Yesterday Obama also tried calming frayed nerves, saying the 'hysteria' over Britain leaving the European Union is unwarranted.

'The average person is not going to notice a big change,' said Obama - if the United Kingdom emulates Norway.

The U.S. president at the same time held up the chaos in the wake of Brexit as a reason why citizens of North America should resist the urge to adopt isolationist policies as he spoke to Canadian lawmakers

Norway is not in the EU, and yet it is one of America's closest allies, the U.S. president told NPR as part of a long interview, a section of which was released yesterday.

'I think that the best way to think about this is, a pause button has been pressed on the project of full European integration,' he said.

The project was 'probably moving faster and without as much consensus as it should have,' he said.

'I think this will be a moment when all of Europe says, "Let's take a breath and let's figure out how do we maintain some of our national identities, how do we preserve the benefits of integration, and how do we deal with some of the frustrations that our own voters are feeling,' " Obama stated.

In the long term, Obama said he does not 'anticipate that there is going to be major cataclysmic changes as a consequence of this.'

'I would not overstate it,' Obama said. 'There's been a little bit of hysteria post-Brexit vote, as if somehow NATO's gone, the trans-Atlantic alliance is dissolving, and every country is rushing off to its own corner. That's not what's happening.'

Pointing to Norway, Obama said, 'They align themselves on almost every issue with Europe and us.

'They are a place that is continually supporting the kinds of initiatives internationally that we support, and, if over the course of what is going to be at least a two-year negotiation between England and Europe, Great Britain ends up being affiliated to Europe like Norway is, the average person is not going to notice a big change.'

President Barack Obama says 'hysteria' over Britain's leaving the European Union is unwarranted. 'I think that the best way to think about this is, a pause button has been pressed on the project of full European integration,' he told NPR

Obama came up on the losing side of the internal battle after he aligned himself with Britain's prime minister, David Cameron, who is resigning in defeat.

He said Britons would find themselves at the 'back of the queue' if they followed through, and they did it any way, putting their long-term trade relationship with the United States in jeopardy.

'It's too early to say' how long it will be before the UK is able to strike a deal with the US, the president's spokesman said yesterday. 'We're four or five days out of this decision being made.'

Obama reiterated that point today at the 'Three Amigos' summit in Canada.

'Frankly, we will be the least of their problems right now because their first order of business is to address the market where they sell half their goods, which is Europe,' the American president pointed out.

He added that 'these things are not easily negotiated,' especially when the U.S. has been working toward a trade agreement for so long with the EU.

Yesterday Josh Earnest said that the UK would not 'benefit from the years of progress we've made in negotiating a trade agreement with the EU' by leaving.

The top US negotiator, Trade Representative Michael Froman, has said set the end of 2016, a month before Obama's exit from office, as the target date to ink an agreement with the EU.

Britain cannot leave the aggregate group until after a two-year time period has passed, ensuring that trade will not immediately be halted.

Earnest said Tuesday that it was still unclear whether the UK would be allowed to negotiate new deals until that window has been passed.

'If and when those negotiations were to start, they would start in a different place,' he said.

Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton came in behind Obama and advised Britain to stay in the EU, while Republican Donald Trump joined the 'Leave' campaign.

Trump is framing the referendum's results as a harbinger of things to come in the United States.

Britons who voted to leave the EU were enraged that their country had been flooded by immigrants since joining the intercontinental alliance that has an open door policy among member nations.

The Republican White House contender believes he can ride the same populist wave to victory in November is the U.S. presidential election.

Obama said in the interview with NPR that there are parallels between the two countries' plights.

However, Europe is also recovering at a slower rate from the 2008 global financial crisis than the United States, he said, crediting his own policies for the positive adjustment west of the Atlantic.

'Overall I think the differences are greater than the similarities,' he said.

What is the same is 'the ability to tap into a fear that people may have about losing control, to offer some sort of vague nostalgic feelings about how we'll make Britain great again or how we'll make America great again.

'And the subtext for that is somehow that a bunch of foreigners and funny-looking people are coming in here and changing the basic character of the nation,' Obama told NPR's Steve Inskeep. 'I think that some of that is out there, both in Europe and the United States.'

Obama came up on the losing side of the internal battle after he aligned himself with Britain's prime minister, David Cameron, who is resigning in defeat. Cameron arrived yesterday at the first day of an EU summit meeting at the EU headquarters in Brussels

Those beliefs are not unique to either the United States or Britain, he said, offering up other 'far-right' movements in France and other countries as evidence.

Obama said it's important to keep in mind with Trump that he 'embodies global elites and has taken full advantage of it his entire life.'

'So, he's hardly a spokesperson — a legitimate spokesperson — for a populist surge of working-class people on either side of the Atlantic,' Obama said, laughing at the idea of the billionaire as the leader of a Bernie Sanders-type movement.

Obama's preferred successor, Hillary Clinton, has avoided public comment on results of the Brexit campaign.

It was not until Sunday, at the annual Conference of U.S. Mayors, that she spoke about it at all, telling her audience, 'the United States and the United Kingdom are different countries in many important ways – economically, politically, demographically.

'But we still have a lot of common interests and values. Just as we have seen there are many frustrated people in Britain, we know there are frustrated people here at home too,' she said. 'I’ve seen it, I’ve heard it, I know it. That’s why I’ve worked hard to find solutions to the economic challenges we face.'

In America, 'political dysfunction' in Congress is what's holding the economy back, the Democratic presidential candidate said.

She told LinkedIn executive editor Daniel Roth in an interview Tuesday morning that she was 'disappointed, but not surprised' by the outcome of the referendum.