http://www.panarmenian.net/eng/news/212408/President_Sargsyan_State_Secretary_Kerry_discuss_Karabakh_settlement
202
20
Armenian President Serzh Sargsyan in Vienna met with the EU High Representative, Vice-President of the European Commission Federica Mogherini and US Secretary of State John Kerry

PanARMENIAN.Net - President Serzh Sargsyan on Monday, May 16 met with the U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry in Vienna, the President's office says.

At the meeting, the parties addressed opportunities for overcoming consequences of the 4-day violence in Nagorno Karabakh in early April.

Commenting on the OSCE Minsk Group Co-chairs' May 12 announcement, President Sargsyan stressed the need for an unconditional adherence to the 1994 ceasefire agreement and the 1995 ceasefire consolidation agreements, as well as installation of mechanisms for investigating ceasefire violations.

The Co-chairs statement said, in particular: “In light of the recent violence and the urgency of reducing tensions along the Line of Contact, we believe the time has come for the Presidents of Armenia and Azerbaijan to meet.

Our Foreign Ministers are prepared to facilitate this meeting next week in Vienna. Their main objectives will be to reinforce the ceasefire regime, and to seek agreement on confidence-building measures that would create favorable conditions for resuming negotiations on a comprehensive settlement on the basis of elements and principles under discussion.

There can be no success in negotiations if violence continues, and there can be no peace without a negotiation process. We reiterate that there is no military solution to the conflict."

The President also expressed hope that the co-chairing countries will support creation of favorable conditions for resuming talks by issuing targeted assessments and taking specific steps.

Both sides confirmed that the Karabakh conflict has no military solution, and that mutually acceptable mechanisms based on the [Minsk Group] fundamental principles need to be established.

Earlier, Sargsyan met with the EU High Representative for Foreign Policy and Security Policy Federica Mogherini.

Read also:EU reps' visits to Karabakh's conflict-affected areas is a must: Armenia