http://en.abna24.com/service/africa/archive/2016/05/16/754646/story.html
203
20
AhlulBayt News Agency - I was motivated to write this article due to the recent statement of the Saudi Foreign Minister Adel Al-Jubeir on #Yemen in an interview with the French newspaper Le Figaro. Al-Jubeir said that the priority of the Saudi-led coalition in Yemen is not to fight the Iranian-backed Houthi freedom fighters but to contain #AlQaeda and #ISIS. Al-Jubeir added: “The two organizations Al-Qaeda and Daesh are terrorist organizations. However, the Houthis are Yemenis and are our neighbors with whom one can hold talks.” In Tweets on his page on Twitter, Al-Jubeir said “whether we disagree or agree with the Houthis, they remain a part of the social fabric of Yemen”.



The Saudi regime assumed this new position due to its repeated defeat by the Houthi Ansarullah freedom fighters in Yemen and its monumental failure to achieve any of its objectives. If the Saudi regime agreed that “Houthis are Yemenis and are our neighbors with whom one can hold talks” then why not hold talks from the beginning? Why did the Saudi regime assembled a coalition to attack Yemen that included 10 Arab regimes and Senegal from Africa combined with massive supports from the US and UK? Why did the Saudi regime spent more than 100 billion Dollars for the aggression against Yemen if it knows that talks can solve disagreements? And why did the Saudi-led coalition killed close to 10,000 Yemeni civilians and destroyed the country’s infrastructures and historical sites if talks and negotiations from the beginning can resolve the disagreements?



The right conclusion is that the Saudi regime assumed this new position due to its gross failure to realize its objectives through the war it imposed on Yemen, its present pathetic financial state and the growing discontent and dissent in Saudi Arabia. It is an open secret that the Saudi and its allied forces fought alongside AlQaeda and ISIS in Yemen against the brave and courageous Houthi freedom fighters but now they claimed they want to concentrate on the fight against Al-Qaeda and ISIS so as to give the US the pretext to station troops in Yemeni bases.



Then we will try to compare this Saudi behaviour with their attitude on the brutal Zaria massacre in #Nigeria by the Nigerian army that killed close to 1000 defenseless and unarmed Shia Muslims that included 100s of women and children. The first person to call the Nigerian President Buhari after the inhuman slaughter in Zaria was the Saudi king Salman who congratulated Buhari for a job well done and called the massacre “part of war against terrorism”. Then the Nigerian regime launched a massive smear campaigns of calumny and demonization against the peaceful Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN) under the leadership of His Eminence Sheikh Ibraheem #Zakzaky by desperately trying to link IMN with terrorism and making fraudulent claims that “IMN is more dangerous than #BokoHaram”!



It has now become clear to all Nigerians that the brutal Zaria massacre was an evil imperialist agenda that has the Saudi regime as front and that was why Western governments and their media are silent about it. And the picture is now clearer that the massacre was pre-planned and that the assassination claims was just a gimmick to justify the inhuman slaughter of women, children and the aged.



As I write, Nigerians are patiently waiting to see how the Saudi regime will reward President Buhari and the 19 Northern Governors for executing the evil agenda. They are keeping that low for now due to the massive world wide protests and coverage the Zaria massacre attracted especially on various social media platforms.



On a final note, the massacre of Yemeni and Nigerian civilians by the Saudi regime and its Nigerian puppet President Buhari has failed to achieve the objectives those massacres were meant for. The massacres only succeeded in revealing the real evil that is embedded in #Wahhabism, the evil poison that has infiltrated and contaminated Sunni Islam.



By: H. Elbinawi







/129

Print Share Twitter

Twitter Facebook

Facebook Google+