http://pchrgaza.org/en/?p=5388
203
20
Print

Dear

Ms. Pillay,

I

would like to take this opportunity, on behalf of the Palestinian Centre for

Human Rights, to welcome you to the Gaza Strip, on this your first official visit

to occupied Palestine .



As

members of the international human rights community, and representatives of

victims, we look upon the High Commissioner for Human Rights as a figurehead, a

protector, and a role-model. In this sense, I hope that your visit and your

actions will offer some hope to the civilian victims of this longstanding

occupation. I hope that you will stand shoulder-to-shoulder with the besieged

civilians of the Gaza Strip, with those living behind the Annexation wall in

the West Bank, and with those subject to ethnic cleansing in occupied East Jerusalem . The Palestinian people need to know that

we are not forgotten, that our human rights remain valid and worthy of

protection, and that the United Nations will work ceaselessly to protect our rights

and ensure that those responsible for their violation are held to account.



In this conflict it is civilians who bear the brunt of the Israeli occupation

and its policies. Although classified as ‘protected persons’ under

international humanitarian law, civilians have been directly targeted on a

consistent and systematic basis. It is the Palestinian civilian population who

suffer the effects of land confiscation, of settlement activity, of the Annexation

wall, and the closure of the Gaza Strip. It is civilians who are subjected to

poverty and hunger as a result of illegal policies and acts. These same

civilians are then systematically denied their right to an effective remedy

should they attempt to agitate for their rights, and for redress.

It

is in the Gaza Strip that this policy has become dramatically evident. For more

than three and a half years, the entire population of Gaza has been subject to an illegal closure

policy. This policy – explicitly enacted as a form of ‘economic warfare’

directed against the civilian population – has cut Gaza off from the rest of

Palestine and the outside world, leading to, inter alia, increased poverty, dependency and despair.

Equally,

during Israel ’s 27 December

2008 – 18 January 2009 offensive on the Gaza

Strip it was civilians who were placed in the eye of the storm. 83% of the over

1,400 casualties were civilians, the majority of the 5,300 injured were

civilians, and civilian property and infrastructure was extensively targeted

and destroyed. Over two years later you can still see the unhealed scars as you

travel through Gaza ; in violation of Security

Council Resolution 1860, Israel

has failed to open the crossings, effectively preventing necessary recovery and

reconstruction.

No

one has been held responsible for these war crimes and possible crimes against

humanity.

Indeed,

it is precisely this lack of accountability which cuts to the core of the

reality in the occupied Palestinian territory today. Despite the extensive

documentation of systematic violations of international humanitarian law and

international human rights law, and the publicity this documentation has

received, no individual has been held criminally accountable. The international

community has not enacted any tangible consequence for these violations, and it

is precisely this pervasive impunity which allows the Occupying Power to

continue its illegal policies.

Today,

this impunity is distinctly manifested via the international community’s

reaction to the ongoing collective punishment of Gaza ’s civilian population: the three and a

half year closure.

There

is a tangible risk that the international community now risks

‘institutionalising’ the closure, thereby becoming complicit in collective

punishment. This cannot be allowed to happen. There are no partial or eased

violations of international law, as noted by the ICRC: the closure must be

lifted in its entirety. The Office of the High Commissioner must do everything

in its power to prevent the institutionalisation of the closure, and to bring

an end to the collective punishment of Gaza ’s

civilians.

This

veil of impunity is also manifest in the lack of criminal accountability for

perpetrators of international crimes, as evidenced by the now protracted

‘Goldstone process’ which has resulted in de

facto impunity on all sides. It is over two years since the end of the

Israeli offensive, and all sides have emphatically failed to initiate genuine

criminal investigations, and if appropriate prosecutions, in accordance with

the requirements of international law. Rather than pursue justice, the domestic

processes have been characterised by a desire to shield suspects.

We

ask that the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights work to bring the

situation in Israel and the oPt to the attention of the General Assembly and

the Security Council, and that a final decision on the Goldstone process be

made. Victims cannot be consigned to a judicial limbo as ineffective domestic

proceedings are constantly ‘evaluated’.

In

light of the evident failure of the domestic processes the international

community must now assume its responsibility to investigate and prosecute those

suspected of international crimes. The Security Council, acting under Chapter

VII of the UN Charter, must refer the situation in Israel and the occupied Palestinian

territory to the International Criminal Court.

The

absence of justice has resulted in the dire situation we face today, in the

systematic violation of fundamental human rights, and the denial of human

dignity.

Behind

the closed doors of the Gaza Strip, it is our shared humanity that continues to

link us to the outside world. We demand that our human rights be respected and

protected. We demand that the international community stay silent no longer,

that it exerts its influence in the name of fundamental freedoms and justice.

With

respect,



Raji Sourani,

Director,

Palestinian

Centre for Human Rights