http://www.kmsnews.org/news/2016/01/25/kashmiris-to-observe-indian-republic-day-as-black-day-2.html
202
20
Protests held on anniversary of Handwara massacre

Srinagar, January 25 (KMS): Kashmiris on both sides of the Line of Control and across the world will observe Indian Republic Day, tomorrow, as Black Day in protest against India’s continued denial of Kashmiris’ right to self-determination.

Call for the observance of the Black Day has been given by the Chairman of All Parties Hurriyet Conference (G) Syed Ali Gilani, and the heads of APHC and Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front, Mirwaiz Umar Farooq and Muhammad Yasin Malik. The day will be marked with a complete strike in occupied Kashmir and anti-India demonstrations and rallies in world capitals.

Strict measures have been taken in the name of so-called security across the territory, especially in Srinagar and Jammu on the eve of India’s Republic Day. Inspector General of Indian Police confirmed to media that a three-tier security set-up is in place to ensure smooth conduct of Republic Day’s functions.Heavy contingents of police and paramilitary forces have been deployed across the territory. Hundreds of youth have been arrested in random crackdowns throughout the Valley. All roads leading to the Bakhshi Stadium, the main venue of official function in Srinagar, have been barricaded.

Meanwhile, anti-India protests were held in Handwara, today, on the 26th anniversary of a deadly massacre by Indian Border Security Force in the town. Seventeen innocent Kashmiris were killed when the BSF troops had opened indiscriminate fire on peaceful demonstrators in the town on this day in 1990. Special prayers were offered in mosques and shrines for the victims. Jammu and Kashmir Muslim League and Salvation Movement leaders during their visit offered fateha at the martyrs’ graveyard in Handwara.

Illegally detained senior Hurriyet leader Masarrat Alam Butt in his message from Kotbhalwal Jail while paying tributes to the martyrs reiterated that people of Kashmir would get freedom from Indian bondage at any cost.

On the other hand, hundreds of people including women and children came out to the streets in Saderkoot Bala, Bazipora, Chimpenzpora, Chravan and main Ajas areas of Bandipora district against the anti-people policies of the occupation authorities. Vehicular traffic on the Srinagar-Bandipora road was suspended due to protests.