http://www.smh.com.au/comment/smh-editorial/turnbull-in-the-us-more-matter-less-art-20160122-gmc2fk.html
203
20
With Malcolm Turnbull now back in the country, it is possible to assess his visit to Washington. Much attention has focused on the major speech Mr Turnbull gave to the Centre for Strategic and International Studies in Washington as a guide to his government's likely future outlook on foreign affairs and the US alliance, and how this has changed from that of his predecessor.

The speech was notable for its style as well as its content. Like the rest of his demeanour during the visit, Mr Turnbull's words were low-key. Entirely absent was the manipulative scaremongering in which Mr Abbott too often allowed himself to indulge. It was also free of the tendency to fawn which has marred other Australian prime ministerial visits to our major ally. Overseas, the Prime Minister seems above all pragmatic: concerned just to get on with the business of diplomacy – rather as, in Australia, he seems concerned just to get on with governing. No point-scoring and a bare minimum of orchestrated showmanship. It is a refreshing change.

Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull was insightful and eloquent in Washington, as well as being breathtakingly hypocritical. Photo: Alex Ellinghauseh

In its place was a careful analysis of the major issues which Australia and the United States face together. On Syria and the Middle East, he rightly sought to bring a sense of proportion about the scale of the problem Daesh presents to the world. Terrorism can be devastating, and the threat is undoubtedly serious, but it should not be exaggerated. A lasting solution, however, will not be something imposed by a US-led military operation; it must be conducted mostly by forces from the region. This seems only common sense – but until quite recently, the reluctance or inability of local forces to play a decisive role has made it hard to achieve.

Mr Turnbull sketched a solution for Syria which might involve partition or power-sharing, with the chief objective to prevent the country continuing as a source of sectarian conflict for the entire region. Once again, it is a pragmatic approach, although it carries many risks and difficulties. Partition of the country into faith-based enclaves could produce a period of ethnic cleansing which could confirm the disaster which has overwhelmed Syria's minorities. Power-sharing, on the other hand, assumes a consensus between rival forces which clearly does not yet exist.

The Prime Minister also recognised, rightly, that Muslim communities, including Muslim minorities in countries such as Australia, must be embraced to allow them to help solve the problem of the small minority of dangerous zealots among them. They, after all, are best placed to do so, and have most to lose if the enterprise should fail. In doing so, he refrained from giving gratuitous advice to the Muslim community about ways in which their religion might be improved. This too was a welcome change.

Perhaps his most interesting suggestion – certainly one that fits well with the agile and nimble Turnbull rhetoric – is that Daesh's effective online propaganda campaigns should be countered rapidly, its claims challenged and its arguments refuted. When it comes to conflict, the internet is a battlefield like any other.

Advertisement

These are all good points. What we did not hear, however, is any sense that the United States and its allies have a comprehensive plan for the region – a strategy which sets goals for concerted action. It was not Mr Turnbull's to impose, of course, but it remains a major gap.

Daesh bulks large in the imagination but, provided that the international community can combine to defeat it – as appears possible – its significance will be short-term only. The larger, longer-term issue for Australia's US alliance is the relationship between the United States and China. Turnbull has to position Australia in a delicate balance between two great powers. Did he manage it?

The Prime Minister approached the topic through a discussion of the Thucydides Trap – the inevitability, referred to by the great Greek historian, that powerful countries will clash as their interests diverge and oppose one another. In doing so, he danced carefully around the point which might best express Australia's interest. That is that if dangerous conflict is to be avoided, both sides will have to give a little. This obviously is a difficult message to deliver in Washington, particularly for a neophyte leader – and Turnbull didn't deliver it. Instead, he urged the US to stay strong, and China in effect to stop its aggressive build-up in the South China Sea. That message is no doubt more acceptable to his hosts, but it may not strike quite the balance that the region, and Australia, needs.

Mr Turnbull's visit coincided with the last days in office of Australia's ambassador to Washington, Kim Beazley. Mr Beazley, a former defence minister, was uniquely suited to the role, being a lifelong student of US politics and society, as well as a staunch advocate in government of the US alliance. His network of contacts around the United States, and in the Washington political establishment, is vast. This experience may explain one of the choices made during Mr Turnbull's visit.

As a matter of courtesy, the Prime Minister sought to contact the leading contenders from either side in the US presidential race. Those chosen for him to speak to were the Democrats' Hillary Clinton, and on the Republican side, Marco Rubio. Mrs Clinton, being the front-runner at present for her party's nomination, was no surprise. Senator Rubio, however, may have been, given the leading candidate for the Republican nomination at present is the maverick populist Donald Trump. The choice of Senator Rubio will undoubtedly reflect predictions inside Washington about the outcome of the nominations. Polling indeed suggests that at a presidential election, Senator Rubio has the best chance of winning the country over. Of all the Republican hopefuls he looks most likely to beat either Mrs Clinton or her close rival for the Democratic nomination, Senator Bernie Sanders. But first he has to convince the Republican Party to make him its candidate, and just now he is trailing Mr Trump and also Senator Ted Cruz in the polls on that race. It is to be hoped that Australia's foreign-policy establishment is not building bridges to those they'd most like to see elected this November instead of those who are most likely to win office.