http://www.timeslive.co.za/thetimes/2016/07/19/Butchery-on-the-hoof
130
13
That is the estimated loss due to theft of sheep in the Free State, where farmers are reporting an alarming spike in stock-theft cases.

But farmers yesterday warned that the study by the department of agricultural economics at the University of the Free State reveals just the tip of the iceberg, and that farmers face a countrywide epidemic - in particular provinces bordering Lesotho: Free State, Eastern Cape and KwaZulu-Natal.

Free State Agriculture yesterday confirmed a "serious increase" in reported cases of stock theft in the province this year.

"The Steynsrus district has been a hot spot for stock thieves with three incidents reported between April and June this year during which 20 to 31 head of sheep were slaughtered per incident," the organisation said.

"In the eastern Free State, an incident was reported in which high-quality stud bulls worth R450000 were stolen and later found slaughtered in the veld."

Of more concern was the fact that between 60% and 70% of stock-theft cases were not reported, thereby hampering a response, it said.

The worst affected regions had been identified, with a view to forging closer co-operation between police and farmers, it added.

Willie Clack, head of the national Livestock Theft Prevention Forum, said as much as 87% of livestock theft was the work of organised crime, with the remainder attributed to "subsistence" theft (due largely to poverty). He urged farmers to report their losses to help police formulate an effective response.

Clack warned that livestock theft in South Africa was still "child's play" compared to other countries.

"Livestock theft is a world problem. Although we have organised crime, we are still busy dealing with modest criminals in this regard," he said, adding: "Annual stock losses stood at around 90000 sheep and 60000 cattle."

Free State farmer Johan Stadler said many stolen cattle, taken mostly in the summer months, were "laundered" through Lesotho, where they were re-branded and then brought back to South Africa to be sold at auction.

Other stock was slaughtered locally, often on the affected farm itself or a few kilometres away, and the meat sold locally.

The problem was aggravated by the fact that a vast majority of local livestock was not branded, making it difficult to identify, he said.