http://www.thenews.com.pk/latest/125705-Thousands-flee-Sri-Lanka-ammunition-depot-explosions
201
20
COLOMBO: Flying shrapnel triggered by explosions at an ammunition depot on the edge of Sri Lanka´s capital Colombo sent thousands of residents scrambling for cover as the blaze turned the skies orange Monday.

At least one soldier burnt to death, seven more people were injured and about 40 residents were treated for smoke inhalation, police said.

The army said the worst ammunition depot fire in Sri Lanka´s history had been extinguished around 12 hours after it started at sundown at the Salawa military complex, setting off explosions that went on through the night.

Soon after the initial fire on Sunday, thousands of people living within six kilometres (3.75 miles) were ordered to leave their homes and move to schools and temples as a safety precaution.

By Monday morning, the authorities said it was safe for people living more than one kilometre from the camp to return to their homes.

Shortly after the first blasts, residents in Salawa were seen leaving in droves as police shut the main highway after shrapnel fell on it too.

The night sky was bright with an orange glow as huge fires raged and the area continued to shake every few minutes. Flying debris could be seen from three kilometres (two miles) away, an AFP photographer said.

This was the second time in three weeks that residents of Colombo were forced to leave their homes. Last month, some 200,000 residents in the capital were driven out of their homes by floods caused by the Kelani river bursting its banks.

The Salawa military complex, just by the Kelani river, is located at a former plywood factory about 36 kilometres east of Colombo. It is used by the army to store heavy weaponry and ammunition, including rockets.

Government spokesman Rajitha Senaratne said the national security council would meet on Monday to review the blast.

Officials declared Monday a holiday for nearby schools and government offices.

Thousands flee Sri Lanka ammunition depot explosions was posted in World of TheNews International - https://www.thenews.com.pk on June 06, 2016 and was last updated on June 06, 2016. This news story is related to Latest/125705-Thousands-flee-Sri-Lanka-ammunition-depot-explosions/ - breaking news, latest news, pakistan ne. Permanent link to the news story "Thousands flee Sri Lanka ammunition depot explosions" is https://www.thenews.com.pk/latest/125705-Thousands-flee-Sri-Lanka-ammunition-depot-explosions.