http://www.dailymail.co.uk/indiahome/indianews/article-3414779/President-Obama-says-Pakistan-dismantle-terror-networks.html
202
20
Terming the Pathankot terror strike another example of the inexcusable terrorism that India has endured for too long, US President Barack Obama on Friday demanded that Pakistan delegitimise, disrupt and dismantle terrorist networks that operate from its territory.

In a tough message, Obama said Pakistan can and must take more effective action against terrorist groups based there, emphasising that there must be zero tolerance for safe havens and terrorists must be brought to justice.

“Pakistan has an opportunity to show that it is serious about delegitimising, disrupting and dismantling terror networks,” Obama told PTI in an interview, during which he answered a wide range of questions covering Indo-US ties, terrorism and the outcome of the Paris climate change summit.

President Obama said both PM Modi and Pakistan's PM Nawaz Sharif are working to advance dialogue between their nations, but Pakistan must show a zero tolerance attitude to terrorism originating on its soil.

Obama gave credit to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for reaching out to his Pakistani counterpart Nawaz Sharif after the Pathankot attack, and said both leaders are advancing a dialogue on how to confront violent extremism and terrorism across the region.

Voicing his belief that the Indo-US relationship can be one of the defining partnerships of the century, Obama said Modi shared his enthusiasm for a strong partnership.

“We have developed a friendship and close working relationship, including our conversations on the new secure lines between our offices,” he said.

Asked if the relationship has achieved its full potential, the President replied: “Absolutely not.”

On the Pathankot attack, Obama said: “We join India in condemning the attack, saluting the Indians who fought to prevent more loss of life and extending our condolences to the victims and their families. Tragedies like this also underscore why the US and India continue to be such close partners in fighting terrorism.”

Obama was of the view that Sharif recognised that insecurity in Pakistan is a threat to its own stability and that of the region. After the December, 2014 school massacre in Peshawar he had vowed to target all militants, regardless of their agenda or affiliation.

“That is the right policy. Since then, we have seen Pakistan take action against several specific groups. We have also seen continued terrorism inside Pakistan such as the recent attack on the university in north west Pakistan.”

The President said that he still believed that Pakistan can and must take more effective action against terrorist groups that operate from its territory.

“In the region and around the world, there must be zero tolerance for safe havens and terrorists must be brought to justice,” he asserted.

Referring to bilateral ties with India, Obama said his visit last year reflected how the ties between the two countries have been transformed.

“Since I took office, I have worked to deepen our cooperation with India across the board and I continue to believe that the relationship between India and the United States can be one of the defining partnerships of this century,” he said.

"However, common values - two democracies, two innovative economies, two diverse societies - make us natural partners. We are linked by the ties of family - millions of Indian Americans," the US President said.

He said his hope was that his visit could help spark a new era of cooperation between the two countries and I believe it did.