http://www.dallasnews.com/opinion/editorials/20160415-editorial-an-essential-view-of-two-nations-escalating-drug-war.ece
202
20
It was no reach to say the danger posed by the 2010 sentencing hearing of Mexico’s Gulf cartel leader in Houston warranted locked doors.

The surrender of Osiel Cárdenas Guillén and his cooperation with U.S. authorities played out in tens of thousands of deaths across Mexico and even would touch an upscale town in North Texas.

This newspaper’s Alfredo Corchado and Kevin Krause reviewed hundreds of confidential law enforcement records; interviewed former and current U.S. and Mexican officials; and spoke with confidential informants and former members of the Gulf cartel and Zetas, including two high-level Cárdenas associates.

Their efforts yield a picture of the deadly consequences, many unintended, of attempting to root out the powerful cartels by removing the kingpins. It’s a rare and essential view of the drug war’s strategy and tactics.

Cárdenas’ arrest led to his July 2009 agreement to plead guilty in U.S. court to drug dealing, money laundering and attempted murder of U.S. agents. This included a promise to surrender $50 million or more. He was sentenced to 25 years in prison, considered relatively light for such crimes.

Cárdenas led the Gulf cartel but also created the Zetas from former members of an elite Mexican military unit for muscle. When the Zetas discovered he had been informing U.S. officials, they declared war against the cartel over the betrayal.

The violence would dwarf anything before it, with innocents regularly caught in the chaos. In August 2010, 72 people, mostly Central American immigrants, were abducted and massacred in Tamaulipas state. More than 300 Coahuila state residents disappeared in early 2011. A casino fire set by the Zetas killed 52 in Monterrey in August 2011.

Juan Jesús Guerrero Chapa, a longtime attorney and confidant of Cárdenas, oversaw the collection of assets he surrendered to the U.S. He also provided more intelligence to the Americans on Cárdenas’ behalf, allegedly while continuing his involvement in the drug trade.

In 2013, Guerrero Chapa was shot to death in Dallas’ back yard — by a masked gunman at Southlake Town Square, near the $1.2 million home he bought with cash.

Some U.S. officials reject assertions that their approach heightened bloodshed, blaming instead Mexico’s corruption and weak rule of law. The plea deals, asset forfeitures and use of informants are a necessary evil, they argue.

Yet even in regions where violence has ebbed, new threats have emerged. The drugs still flow north, the money south, as the cartels have diversified into extortion, kidnappings, migrant smuggling and piracy.

Officials must constantly learn from the past and adjust. This newspaper has supported efforts in Congress, so far unsuccessful, to designate seven cartels as “foreign terrorist organizations” to give law enforcement tools to expand beyond the kingpin strategy.

The stakes are too high, for both governments and their people, to surrender to these murderous drug organizations. Only by better understanding them — and the battle — can we hope to defeat them.