http://www.swedenabroad.com/en-GB/Embassies/Ottawa/Current-affairs/News/Human-Rights-Week-at-the-Swedish-Embassy-sys/
203
20
This week, the Embassy is focusing on the legacy of Raoul Wallenberg, and how it is still relevant today. Two seminars are taking place, in Toronto at the Munk School of Global Affairs at the University of Toronto, and at the Human Rights Research Education Centre at the University of Ottawa, in Ottawa. By organizing these seminars, the Embassy hopes to emphasize Sweden’s and Canada’s work for human rights in relation to conflict.

Raoul Wallenberg is one of Sweden’s unlikely heroes from the Second World War. He was the young entrepreneur, who became Sweden’s Special Envoy to Budapest in 1944. His initiative to create protective passports and “international ghettos” for Jewish refugees saved thousands of lives.

He did what diplomacy and foreign policy in times of conflict, should aim for: protect and defend individuals, and build a world that upholds respect for human rights, including every human being’s right to live in freedom and dignity. His courage and legacy to stand up for others is still relevant.

In 2005, the member states of the United Nations made a commitment to protect populations from genocide, war crimes, ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity. The principle of the Responsibility to Protect amplifies and brings focus on existing obligations and opportunities under international law, and resonates with the spirit in which Wallenberg was operating.

The Responsibility to Protect calls states, international organizations, civil society and citizens, to do what Wallenberg said is “humanly possible” in order to protect humans at risk.

The challenge today, as during the Second World War, is to help those in danger. The conflict in Syria and the situation of the Syrian refugees illustrates the range of challenges that the international community is confronted with.

Sweden has pledged to follow the Responsibility to Protect, and has taken its foreign policy one step further by formulating and implementing an action plan for a Feminist Foreign Policy. As part of this initiative the Swedish Foreign Minister, Margot Wallström, has initiated a Women Mediator Network. The network is a way of promoting women’s participation in peace negotiations, and thus contributing to a more sustainable peace, and better security for women and children.

Swedish civil society organizations have been, and are still, very active in helping Syrian refugees. Kvinna till Kvinna (Woman to Woman in English), one of the bigger ones, is present at the Syrian peace talks, supporting Syrian women human rights defenders.

Read more: