http://www.nwemail.co.uk/news/barrow/Former-Brussels-political-adviser-tells-of-desperate-bid-to-contact-pals-from-new-home-in-Cumbria--10d61524-1ffe-4a93-a1af-0db29e761834-ds
202
20
Former Brussels political adviser tells of desperate bid to contact pals from new home in Cumbria

22 March 2016 5:22PM

A FORMER political adviser who moved to Cumbria after spending more than 10 years in Brussels has told how terror attacks on the city have left him feeling 'sick to the stomach.'

Darren Ennis and wife Jenny spent much of this morning desperately ringing friends who still live in the city to check on their welfare.

Fortunately none of them had been injured in the atrocities - but Mr Ennis says the bomb attacks have left him feeling profoundly upset.

And he has spoken of his hope that the tolerant country he grew to love will no turn of residents of Arab and Muslim heritage because of the incidents.

He added: "These bombs are the work of terrorists. Not Arabs, not Muslims, but terrorists.

"It is a shame that a country which is so welcoming and diverse has been targeted in this way.

READ MORE: Cumbria woman caught up in Brussels terror

"It was one of the things we loved about being there; we could have friends round for dinner at a weekend and there would be 12 different nationalities around the table.

"What has happened has left me feeling sick to the stomach"

Mr Ennis, now living ion Cockermouth, worked for a journalist for the Reuters news agency based in Brussels until 2009.

He then took up a role as special adviser to Catherine Ashton, the EU's High Representative for Foreign Affairs, before moving to Cumbria in 2014.

At least 34 people have been killed and nearly 200 injured as terrorists struck today.

Co-ordinated bomb attacks on the main airport and Metro system in Brussels left a major city in lockdown once again less than five months after Paris was hit by a wave of deadly strikes.

The atrocities, condemned as "blind, violent and cowardly" by Belgian prime minister Charles Michel, came after the arrest last week of terror mastermind Salah Abdeslam, who plotted November's massacre in the French capital.

The terror group Islamic State (IS) has claimed responsibility for the attacks.

Mr Ennis, whose home was recently affected by the Cumbria Floods, said: "I feel more upset about what is happening in Brussles than what happened at home.

"I met my wife there, my daughter was born there. I suppose I have an emotional attachment to the city."

The family used to live just minutes away from Schuman, which was at the centre of one of the attacks.

French prime minister Manuel Valls said: "We are at war. In Europe we have been subjected to acts of war for several months."