http://www.onlinenigeria.com/news/politics/12500-buhari-%E2%80%98president-encouraging-agatu-killings,%E2%80%99-fani-kayode-says.html
202
20
Fani-Kayode made the accusation via a statement released on Monday, March 14, 2016.

It reads:

“A friend of mine just came back from Agatu. He is an online journalist and he went with a team of his professional colleagues. He told me that at least 500 people were slaughtered by the Fulani herdsmen and militants in Agatu and no less than 9 villages were sacked and burnt to the ground over there.

“Worse still the Fulani did not just kill their victims but they have also occupied what is left of their villages, towns and land. My friend actually saw the conquering and victorious Fulani militants because they have taken full control of the land and towns of their victims.

“He and those that were with him were actually shot at by the militants when they sighted them. He said the whole area now looks like a major war zone and it is utterly destroyed and devastated.

“What a mess. Yet no CNN, BBC or Al Jazeera coverage and hardly anything about it has been reported in our local media. Are the 500 Idomas that were killed in Agatu not human beings?

“Thousands of people have been displaced and many families have lost their homes and loved ones at the hands these Fulani herdsmen and cattle rearers who come from another world yet no-one appears to care.

“Meanwhile our president openly encourages this genocide and ethnic cleansing with his criminal negligence and complicit silence. Enough is enough. This bloodletting by the Fulani herdsmen is nothing less than a curse on our nation and the more we tolerate such destruction and mass murder and turn a blind eye to it, the more God will make us suffer as a people.

“President Buhari needs to put a stop to the carnage that his kinsmen are unleashing on the Nigerian people. I am calling him out and I am speaking for those that do not have a voice and the victims of these barbaric acts. He must protect the Nigerian people. He must call the perpetrators of these diabolical acts to order and he must punish them.”

Fani-Kayode had earlier linked Buhari with the rampaging herdsmen saying that they were getting away with their crimes because they had one of their own in the Presidential Villa.

-------------------------------------------

See Pulse Photo-News gallery below: