http://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2016/may/27/magherafelt-ira-bomb-northern-ireland-fair-archive-1993
139
13
Leaving aside last Sunday’s IRA bomb, schoolchildren represented the biggest threat to Magherafelt’s annual bash yesterday.

They had been so naughty the past two years, organisers had shifted the Co Londonderry town’s May fair from its customary public holiday slot so fewer teenage monsters would be among the 6,000 or so folk who flocked in, almost doubling the population.



More Royal Ulster Constabulary officers than usual paraded the streets. There would be no repeat of last year’s debacle, when schoolchildren ran amok firing spray string in all directions.



There was also the matter of the first bomb attack in several years on Northern Ireland’s best kept town. But the people of Magherafelt rose to the challenge.



About 150 stalls were crammed into side roads around the Market Square. Traders were denied the best pitches, in Broad Street, devastated three days earlier by a van bomb, but the fair went ahead. Bertie Montgomery, vice-chairman of the district council, said: “It would have been a disgrace otherwise.”



Facebook Twitter Pinterest Maranna McCloskey singing Magherafelt May Fair.

Joe Spiers, aged 35, from Co Down, makes his living taking his amusement stall from fair to fair. The day before it was Ballyclare. Tomorrow, it is Letterkenny, across the border in Donegal.



“I’ve been working in bombed out towns for 20 years. It doesn’t matter whether it was two days ago, two weeks ago, or two months ago. People have just got to pick up and get started again,” Mr Spiers said.



“If this was England, they’d still have the forensic men combing the streets. Here, they get a couple of hours, then it’s on with the business of life.”



There was one big difference from past years. At noon, the twin yellow cranes in Broad Street were the backdrop to a short prayer service. As it came to a close, pensioner Annie Barnett, from nearby Desertmartin, said some of her friends had been afraid to come. But the terrorists were not going to spoil her day out. She proudly brandished her purchase, a shiny white basin. Normal service had been resumed.

