https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-fix/wp/2016/10/11/this-pro-trump-blog-is-so-mad-at-paul-ryan-it-wants-people-to-support-a-democrat/
138
13


House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (Wis.) and Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump. (Agence France-Presse via Getty Images)

A popular conservative blog is so unhappy with House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (Wis.) and his decision to break up with Donald Trump that they're trying to boot him out of office — even if it means telling people to vote for a Democrat.

Here's the post. (h/t Gabriel Rosenberg at Duke University):

Woah. Popular Rightwing blog, Ace of Spades HQ just endorsed Paul Ryan's Democratic opponent. GOP down-ballot apocalypse brewing. pic.twitter.com/64mR1HlxX7 — Gabriel Rosenberg (@gnrosenberg) October 11, 2016

The post, from Ace of Spades HQ, reads: "Vote for Ryan's Democratic opponent, whoever that is. Boot him out of Congress, and badly damage any hopes he has to be president anytime soon."

When Ryan told his House Republican colleagues Monday that he'd be abandoning Trump to save his congressional majorities, he knew there'd be a backlash from Trump supporters. But urging people in Ryan's district to vote for the enemy to get him out of office — that takes it to a whole new level.

On Saturday, after Ryan had disinvited Trump from their very first joint event of the campaign, Ryan was booed and heckled by Trump supporters in the crowd.

Paul Ryan told a crowd at a fall festival in Wisconsin that there was a "troubling" "elephant in the room," after the Washington Post revealed a 2005 recording of Trump speaking in very lewd terms about women. (The Washington Post)

The same scene played out for other Republicans across the country who withdrew their support for Trump. In Nevada, GOP Senate candidate Rep. Joseph J. Heck was booed when he rescinded his support.

[Senate Republicans look ready to jump off the Trump bandwagon. But they've got to watch where they land.]

Ryan was once a conservative darling. But with fame come responsibilities — and enemies. By the time he ascended to the speakership, many of the conservative blogs and thinkers who had celebrated him in his 2012 vice-presidential run had turned on him.

"Ryan is a nice man, but he does not reflect the conservative base of the modern GOP," Jenny Beth Martin, chief executive of Tea Party Patriots, wrote in a Politico Magazine piece just under a year ago.

Could Trump supporters actually boot Ryan out of office? It's unlikely we'll see another Eric Cantor moment. This is one blog post on one blog in the universe of the Internet. We're writing about it precisely because it's news — unusual.

Ryan's Racine-area district is three points more Republican than the rest of the nation, according to Cook Political Report's Partisan Voter Index. That means it's not safely red, but with such a well-known incumbent as Ryan on the ballot, it is pretty darn safe.

Just to drive a point home, when you follow the money, Ryan's reelection bid is not even a contest. His Democratic opponent, Iraq War veteran Ryan Solen, doesn't even look as though he's trying to beat the speaker of the House.

Ryan — a prolific fundraiser — literally has $9,558,447 more in the bank than does Solen, who has raised some $2,000 this year.

[The latest reminder that it's really, really hard to kick lawmakers out of office]

Ryan is likely much more worried about trying to hold onto his historically large majority in the House of Representatives. That's exactly his aim in ditching Trump — to avoid having to talk about him, defend him, campaign with him, etc. That way Ryan can just focus on down-ballot races. (This is a good place to note that Ryan hasn't technically unendorsed Trump, so in some senses, he's walking a tightrope over the worst of both worlds.)

This isn't the first time the hyperpartisan Ace of Spades blog has suggested crossing sides. In a post in September, the founder floated the idea of doing it himself: "I'm personally probably defecting to the Democrats after this," he wrote. [Note: Link includes strong language.]

Really, the takeaway from this Ace of Spades revolt against Ryan is this: Trump supporters are mad. Mad at Washington. Mad at the establishment. Mad at a lot of things. And in ditching Trump, Ryan has handed them yet another reason to be angry — angry enough, in this one case, to suggest supporting a Democrat.