https://www.naij.com/728636-boko-haram-war-see-who-visited-nigeria-yesterday.html
202
20
– Baroness Anelay visited Nigeria to hold talks on the protection of civilians in the fight against Boko Haram

– The UK foreign office minister also met with the Bring Back Our Girls campaign and discussed the additional humanitarian support the UK is providing to help people directly affected by the ongoing insurgency.

Baroness Anelay visited Nigeria to meet with the government regarding the progress made in the war against terrorism in the country.

On her visit, the foreign office minister reiterated the UK’s support to Nigeria in their fight against Boko Haram.

The Minister observed first-hand UK military personnel training Nigerian soldiers to strengthen the military response to combat Boko Haram in the north east of the country.

In a state availed by Gov UK on Thursday, February 11, Baroness Anelay said: “Boko Haram has caused immense suffering to people of different faiths and ethnicities. They commit appalling atrocities against all those who do not follow their extremist and intolerant views. The UK is committed to help Nigeria fight terrorism and is working closely with Nigeria and our international partners to support those people who have been displaced by the conflict in the north east.”

READ ALSO: Zaria massacre: Shiites make shocking revelation

While meetings with the Nigerian government, the minister raised the importance of the protection of civilians, particularly in preventing gender-based violence, in the fight against Boko Haram. She also met a range of NGOs and civil society to discuss UK support for the large numbers of people displaced by the conflict in the north east.

The minister also met with the Bring Back Our Girls (BBOG) campaign and discussed the additional humanitarian support the UK is providing to help those affected by the fight against Boko Haram.

This includes about N2billion to deliver food, education, safe water, shelter material and other basic necessities to those people displaced in Nigeria. The Baroness also saw how UK projects are providing education for girls and young women, helping them to achieve their potential and giving them the skills they need to set up their own business.

It is estimated that over 2.2 million people have been displaced and over 14.8 million affected by the Boko Haram insurgency.

A resident military training and advisory team in Nigeria (The British Military Advisory and Training Team) coordinates an increasing programme of military capacity building assistance to the Armed Forces of Nigeria. This includes training and advice on counter-insurgency.

In the same vein, the European Union (EU) on Thursday, February 11 pledged the sum of $50 million in support of Nigeria’s current struggle against insurgency attacks, and the attendant problems associated with providing for internally displaced persons and other victims of various attacks in the nation.