http://in.newshub.org/david-coleman-headley-nails-role-isi-india-use-testimony-corner-pakistan-20609461.html
202
20
David Coleman Headley's deposition is being seen by the government as yet another strong evidence to implicate the role of state and non-state actors of Pakistan in 26/11 terror attacks.

Terming Headley's statement as the key to end the ambiguity over the role of Pakistani "state and non-state actors", minister of state for home Kiren Rijiju said, "It is known that who all were involved. Headley's statement will lead to a logical conclusion as it ends the ambiguity. It will help us."

Senior officials said Headley's deposition has clearly brought out the role played Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) officers along with Lashkar-e-Toiba's (LeT) chief Hafiz Saeed and commander Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi and would be used to hand over a fresh dossier to Pakistan.

During his five-hour deposition through video conferencing, Headley reportedly spelt out the names of two ISI officers – Major Ali and Major Iqbal – who connected him to Lashkar recruiter Sajid Mir thereby clearly bringing out the ISI-Lashkar nexus.

The testimony puts a searchlight on the role played by Pakistani state actors who were not even arrested or put to trial.

"It (deposition) is definitely one of the most incriminating evidence as it has been given to the court on oath and without any sort of pressure by us. Once Headley gives his full deposition we will look at it with the help of judicial experts and accordingly share the evidence with Pakistan," said a senior official.

Many senior officials in the security establishment think that the testimony gives India the chance to "name and shame" Pakistan internationally and pressurise it to rein in terror groups.

Also read: Situation tense at border as India retaliates strongly to Pakistan ceasefire violations

Conceding that Pakistan is expected to do little, as is evident from giving clean chit to Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) chief Masood Azhar in Pathankot attack case, officials said that New Delhi may use it to raise the pitch at international forums like UN for Pakistan to act and bring perpetrators to justice.

According to independent experts also Headley's testimony should be used to expose Pakistan further as that is the only language it understand and is wary of.

"The deposition of Headley yet again proves to the world community that it is not merely groups like LeT that need to be dealt with expeditiously, but also Pakistan's sponsorship of terrorist groups which it regards as 'strategic assets' and the terror infrastructure that has taken roots in its territory."

"India's approach to dealing with the challenge posed by terrorism has to become multi-dimensional, including diplomatic efforts to isolate state sponsorship of terrorism, dealing with Pakistan pragmatically instead of being driven by sentiment, and strengthened domestic structures," said Vivik Chada of IDSA.

India names Lakhvi as the prime planner and executioner of 26/11 Mumbai attacks.

After pressure being put by USA, whose citizens were also killed in the attack, Pakistani armed forces arrest Lakhvi in a raid at Muzzafarabad based Lashkar training camp.

Rehman Malik, Interior Minister, says that Lakhvi is still in custody and under investigation as the foremost mastermind behind the attacks.

A Pakistani anti-terrorism court formally charges seven suspects, including LeT commander Lakhvi, with planning and helping execute the Mumbai attacks.

Two days after Peshawar school attack where 132 school children were massacred, Pakistani anti-terrorism court grants bail to Lakhvi in Mumbai attacks case.

Lakhvi's bail was rejected by the Pakistan's high court. Pakistan assures that Lakhvi was not released and was in jail.

Lakhvi's bail rejected by Supreme Court and the case referred back to the high court that reinstate the bail. But Lakhvi still remain in jail in a kidnapping case.

Also read: Indians hold nerves to claim title

Source: dnaindia.com