http://www.dnd.com.pk/mullah-fazlullah-wounded-inside-afghanistan/105856
202
20
Mullah Fazlullah wounded in Afghanistan

Monitoring Desk: The head of Tehrik Taliban of Pakistan (TTP) Mullah Fazlullah was wounded in a road accident inside Afghanistan while traveling from Kunar province to Nuristan when his twin cabin skidded from the road and hit a rock.

According to Eurasian media outlets, Fazulullah had an accident near Wama close to Pech river. Media reports indicate that unconfirmed reports came from Wama area Afghanistan that vehicle of Mullah Fazlullah skidded and hit rocks. Reports maintain that he was wounded along with his two accompanies and was immediately shifted to undisclosed location. However, Afghan authorities are yet to confirm such reports.

A Russian newspaper reported on Friday that a local news agency while citing an eye witness said that his vehicle was high speed and it skid and hit rocks.

It pertinent to mentioned that chief of Tehrik Taliban of Pakistan is reportedly living inside Afghanistan and reportedly operating in Nuristan and Kunar provinces from where he manages terrorism attacks inside Pakistan.

A number of terrorists who had been arrested alleged that they were receiving instructions for attacks on Pakistan armed forces directly from Mullah Fazulullah from Afghanistan but Afghan authorities rejected claims that Mullah Fazlullah was operating from Afghanistan. However, some groups of Afghan Taliban operating in north Afghanistan near Tajikistan border confirm presence of Mullah Fazlullah in Nuristan during October 2015.

There have been reports of his death in international media but TTP rejected such reports.

Pakistan has officially asked Afghan government to take action against Mullah Fazlullah but such demands did not address by Afghan authorities. Intelligence agencies in Pakistan claim that Mullah Fazlullah was behind massacre of school children in Army Publich School (APS) Peshawar where over 130 students were brutally killed by TTP terrorists. Reports of involvement of Mullah Fazlullah behind Charsada University incident were also rejected by Afghan authorities.