http://www.kashmirtimes.in/newsdet.aspx?q=48946
202
20
Front Page Lest we forget: Remembering victims of Gawkadal massacre FARZANA SYED SRINAGAR, Jan 21: January 21 marked the 26th anniversary of the Gawkadal massacre. 26 years back on January 21, 1990 indiscriminate firing by CRPF troopers on a group of protesters had resulted in a bloodbath in Gawakadal area of Srinagar.



The deadly massacre had left at least 50 civilians dead and scores of others injured.



Although more than two decades have passed since the carnage was executed; yet the memories are fresh in the minds of the victims' families.



The state human rights groups and activists see Gawkadal massacre as one dreadful episode in the history of Kashmir which transformed the very stance of occupation and atrocities meted out to the people of Kashmir valley.



Pertinently, the political and rights analysts describe Gawkadal massacre as a turning point since the very inception of the prolonged conflict in valley.



“It was the beginning of a transformed policy of Indian State's brutality in Kashmir. Since then there was no end in massacres, killings, disappearances, rapes and tortures,” valley’s human rights activist Khurram Parvez said.



Khurram Parvez whose grandfather was also a victim of Gawkadal bloodbath said the memories of the massacre that took away his grandfather were still afresh and haunting among the eyewitnesses and kin of the victims.



“Remembering every massacre is akin to a weapon and a voice against the brutalities meted out to the oppressed people of Kashmir valley. Gawkadal is one such heinous incident which renewed the very policy of Indian state’s atrocious attitude towards people of Kashmir. Gawkadal episode indeed became imperative in conveying to the outside world the policies of occupation.” Khurram said.



After the Gawkadal massacre, widespread protests were followed by an FIR in the case but the queries and investigations did not reach any conclusion.



“Like any other massacre in history of Kashmir no one was held accountable or guilty for killing scores of innocent civilians though an FIR was registered in this case too. The investigation was mere eyewash like it has always been in many cases of human rights violations in valley. Moreover, the FIR had stated the protesters had attacked paramilitary troopers which had forced troopers to open fire in their defense.” Khurram said.



The human rights and social activists believe that Gawkadal massacre shaped the very political understanding of occupation of Kashmir. A year back State Human Rights Commission had ordered an inquiry into the massacre. However, nothing has been done so far.



“History of Kashmir is a witness to scores of massacres, tortures, arson that have been designed to hush up the very voice of a common Kashmiri against coercion but such episodes have indeed made the oppressed voice grow louder. Remembering the victims sends a message to the killers and perpetrators of these barbaric acts that Kashmir will never forget its martyrs." Khurram Parvez said.





News Updated at : Friday, January 22, 2016 Comment on this Story Top Stories of the Day We expect robust action from Pak: India NEW DELHI, Jan 21 (Agencies): India on Thursday asserted that it was "closely" following the progress in the investigation in Pakistan on the Pathankot terrorist attack and said it expects "robust action" from Islamabad to bring the perpetrators to book. External affairs ministry spokesperson Vikas Swarup dismissed as "baseless" the allegations that India was behind an attack at a university at Charsadda in Pakistan in which at least 20 people, mostly students, were massacred by heavily-armed > Intruder shot dead by BSF along Indo-Pak border > ‘India need to be on alert till Jan 26’ > NC ready for fresh elections: Farooq > Lest we forget: Remembering victims of Gawkadal massacre > Mercury dips in Kargil, sunny in Kashmir