http://www.tribune.net.ph/headlines/ex-pnp-brass-claims-owning-mamasapano-tapes-vs-noy
202
20
Reminiscent of the explosive Hello Garci tapes that implicated former President Gloria Arroyo to the massive and orchestrated cheating in the 2004 elections and which nearly brought down her administration, a retired Philippine National Police (PNP) general said an audio recording in his possession will prove a conspiracy in covering up President Aquino’s direct hand in the Mamasapano debacle.

Retired Chief Insp. Diosdado Valeroso said he has obtained a recording that lasts for 15 to 20 minutes and which contained a conversation that took place exactly two days after the January 25 incident that resulted in the death of 44 Special Action Force (SAF) commandos.

Valeroso who attended a forum yesterday was elusive on the content of the alleged recording but he said it will be passed on to the Senate on January 27 when the probe on the tragic incident is reopened.

Valeroso, without giving details, also described the subject of the conversation as an attempt to insulate the peace agreement between Malacañang and the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) from the incident.

“What is most glaring in the said evidence is that there is an effort to cover up guilt and protect (somebody),” Valeroso said.

The former official of the PNP National Capital Region Police Office (NCRPO) said the recording was between a high-ranking government official and a legislator.

During the conversation, one of the unnamed individuals told the other to ignore what happened in Mamasapano to prevent delaying the ongoing peace talks between the government and the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF).

The conversation in gist was between two persons discussing the possibility of playing down the incident so as not to affect the peace agreement with the MILF,” he said.

He said he obtained the audio recording through email and was sent by a credible source.

Blood is in the hands of President Aquino as he is the most accountable in the infamous Mamasapano massacre, legislators belonging to the independent minority bloc in the House of Representatives also declared yesterday.

Ahead of the reopening of the Senate hearing on the botched Oplan Exodus, Buhay Partylist Rep. Lito Atienza said there’s nobody else to blame for the massacre but the commander in chief, Aquino.

“Without any hesitation, Noynoy Aquino is accountable for he did not do anything to save the SAF despite the fact that he has the direct access and information of the operation,” Atienza said yesterday in a media forum. “Noynoy allowed them to get killed”, he added.

“For doing nothing, Aquino allowed the slaughter of the SAF 44,” he added.

Atienza also asserted that the President is a “liar” who “went on maximizing to divert facts from stories just to avoid the pointing finger of guilt to him”.

“From misencounter to encounter then one story to another.. The administration was acting whimsically with their series of lies,” he added.

Apart from Aquino, Atienza also said that Liberal Party (LP) standard bearer and former Department of the Interior and Local Government (DILG) Secretary Mar Roxas should also be charged with liability in the said operation.

Atienza said that he isn’t buying the excuse of Roxas that he was “taken out of the loop” in the police mission that targeted Malaysian terrorist Marwan and was by passed by the President who was communicating instead to his close friend, then suspended former PNP chief Director Gen. Alan Purisima.

“Roxas, do not know anything prior to the operation? Oh my God, what a lame and stupid excuse. He was DILG secretary, the PNP was under him, don’t tell me that he did not know anything, it is very impossible. Major Police operations pass through him,” Atienza said.

“If it was true that his authority was bypassed, it should’ve been the perfect time for him to resign and tell the President ‘I quit’,” he added.

Also expected to be present on the Senate hearing set on January 27, are Executive Secretary Paquito Ochoa Jr., Defense Secretary Voltaire Gazmin, Communications Secretary Sonny Colima and LP senatorial aspirant and former Justice Secretary Leila de Lima.

Delayed SAF probe results

Agreeing with Rep. Atienza, Abakada Partylist Rep. Jonathan dela Cruz said that they lament the fact that their fellow legislators belonging to the House Committee on Public Order and Security and the Special Committee on National Unity and Reconciliation are “delaying the results of their supposed investigations” which he cites as a grave injustice to the public.

Dela Cruz also suspects that their fellow legislators who participated in investigations are delaying the findings for perhaps political reasons.

“Now that there seems to be a cover up, we of the independent minority bloc in Congress cannot tolerate this baloney. (Rep. Atienza’s) exposé is the main point of the alternative investigation report we prepared,” dela Cruz said.

Dela Cruz also said he does not fully subscribe with finality to the Board of Inquiry (BoI) report prepared by former PNP Criminal Investigation and Detention Group (CIDG) chief Ret. Gen. Romeo Maganto and the haphazard Senate report by the Committee on Peace and Order chair and presidential wannabe Sent. Grace Poe which accordingly absolves Aquino.

“A lot of questions are left unasked. Nobody went deeply to President Aquino’s role and the American intervention as well. For all we know, the report’s done for 6 months and maybe only Poe knows the big deal,” he added.

The fallen SAF 44 were killed on their mission of arresting wanted terrorist Zulkifli bin Hir alias Marwan in who was situated in the insurgent Moros’ territory in Tukanalipao, Mamasapano, Maguindanao.

In an apparent crisis management effort, the Palace said Aquino has authorized the posthumous conferment of Medal of Valor to two SAF commandos who died during the Mamasapano mission, which will be commemorated on Monday.

Presidential Communications Development and Strategic Planning Office Undersecretary Manolo Quezon III confirmed that the President has already authorized the grant of the awards.

“This is the awarding ceremony that will take place, I believe, in Camp Crame. The President authorized the award and among the awards that will be conferred will be the PNP Medal of Valor,” Quezon said.

Quezon added that aside from the medal awarding, which will be given to two individuals, there will also be the Medalya ng Kabahayanihan or the PNP Distinguished Conduct Medal to be awarded to other members of the SAF 44.

SAF members Senior Inspector Gednat Tabdi and Police Officer 2 Romeo Cempron will receive the Medal of Valor awards on Monday during the PNP’s commemoration of the first anniversary of the Mamasapano incident.

The 44 SAF members were killed in Mamasapano, Maguindanao on Jan. 25, 2015 in a mission to neutralize Indonesian bomb maker Zulkifli Binhir alias Marwan and Filipino terrorist Abdul Basit Usman.

The SAF members killed the Indonesian terrorist, but failed to arrest Usman. Usman was later killed in a clash with authorities.

The police commandos were leaving the site when they encountered members of the Moro Islamic Liberation Front and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters resulting in the deaths of its 44 members.





By Ted Tuvera