http://www.theatlantic.com/notes/2016/01/what-were-following-this-morning/426555/
202
20
Buckle up, bed down, dig out: The East Coast is bracing for the wallop of a winter storm today. Washington, D.C., which was paralyzed by about an inch of snow Wednesday night, is expected to get much more, perhaps as much as two feet Friday afternoon; public transit in the city is shutting down Friday evening through Sunday evening. Philadelphia and New York are also right in the storm’s path. There are 4,700 canceled flights so far. Read our full rundown on the storm, which we refuse to call Jonas, here.

The right vs. the Donald: The eminent conservative magazine National Review has devoted its newest issue, published Thursday night, to a symposium of 21 writers from corner of the right calling for Donald Trump to be stopped. Conor and Matt have more detail. The Republican National Committee has already revoked the magazine’s role in a February 25 debate over the issue. Trump responded as only he can, calling National Review “a dying paper.”

Massacre in Mogadishu: At least 14 civilians were killed in the Somali capital Thursday night in an attack claimed by the Islamist group Al-Shabab. Gunmen stormed a beachside resort from several sides, then killed hostages as security forces closed in, killing six terrorists in a battle that lasted until nearly dawn. Others people were killed by a car bomb.

An American student arrested in North Korea: Otto Frederick Warmbier, a 21-year-old student at the University of Virginia, has been arrested in Pyongyang and accused of “hostile acts” against the regime with "the tacit connivance of the U.S. government.” He was reportedly in the country on a tourist visa, and was arrested as he prepared to leave the country after a five-day tour.

Execution in Alabama: Thursday night in Atmore, Alabama killed Christopher Eugene Brooks via lethal injection, the state’s first execution in more than two years. He was sentenced to death for the 1992 rape and murder of a woman.