http://www.themalaymailonline.com/malaysia/article/bangsa-johor-a-concept-other-states-can-emulate-sultan-says
130
13
‘Bangsa Johor’ a concept other states can emulate, Sultan says

Johor Sultan Ibrahim Iskandar said the ‘Bangsa Johor’ concept means everybody is responsible for developing Johor while respecting everyone else’s culture and religion. — Bernama picKUALA LUMPUR, Aug 30 — The ‘Bangsa Johor’ concept of unity is something which other states can learn from, Johor monarch Sultan Ibrahim Iskandar has said.

“Other states can look to Johor as an example of how to foster racial unity. Because our intention is noble, so many have come to express their desire to live in and be part of Johor,” the New Straits Times (NST) quoted Sultan Ibrahim as saying.

He told the English-language daily that the concept was conceived in 1920, when his great-grandfather, Major General Sultan Sir Ibrahim Al-Masyhur Ibni Al-Marhum Sultan Sir Abu Bakar Al-Khalil felt the need to appreciate and unite the various races who had come to develop the state.

“The Chinese, Indians and Javanese had all been invited to join the Malays, in the 1800s by his father, Sultan Sir Abu Bakar and his grandfather Temenggung Daeng Ibrahim, to seek their fortunes in Johor, from when it was just a jungle with a very small population,” he said, adding that the Bangsa Johor concept is also relevant today, in the wake of constant racially-charged issues.

“Bangsa Johor means everybody is responsible for developing Johor while respecting everyone else’s culture and religion because we want everybody to live in peace and prosperity. Concord is a blessing.

“More than ever, the concept of Bangsa Johor is relevant today, especially looking at the issues of racial polarisation that keep coming up,” Sultan Ibrahim added.

He added that concept was also created for “the greater good of Malaysia, adding that the label is not to instil any form of negativity.

Sultan Ibrahim also warned those who are ill-informed of the concept to not speak about it with authority, in response to a question about former prime minister Tun Dr Mahathir Mohamad’s recent criticism of Bangsa Johor.

Last week, Sultan Ibrahim cautioned Dr Mahathir to keep his nose out of matters related to his state, including the Bangsa Johor concept.

Dr Mahathir’s antagonism towards world leaders had put Malaysia “in a spot” in the past, the sultan was reported by The Star as saying in a scathing response to Dr Mahathir, that such notions promoting affinity to individual states over the country will divide Malaysians.

He remarked that the 91-year-old Kedahan is now making trouble and advised Dr Mahathir to “keep his mouth shut”.

“He has quarrelled with many world leaders including with our neighbour Singapore and putting Malaysia in a spot.

“And now he talks about unity with an incredible straight face. Tun Mahathir is the root cause of the present problems in the country. He has no right to interfere in my state. I will not tolerate his antics,” Sultan Ibrahim was quoted saying.