http://singhstation.net/2016/05/jagdish-tytler-offers-apology-1984/
202
20
Senior Congress leader Jagdish Tytler, One of the main Accused of 1984 Sikh genocide, said that he is willing to offer apology to the Sikh community for 1984 charges.

Jagdish Tytler has stated that he has written a letter to Akal Takht Sahib that he wants to meet Jathedar Akal Takht Sahib and appear before Akal takht Sahib.

“If In Court evidence proves that i am guilty then i should be severely punished. He claimed that his name Has been linked to a 1984 massacre under a conspiracy”, Tytler said.

He further says that some congress leaders are behind this conspiracy. His family also belong to Sikh community and how Can he kill the innocent Sikhs, but he has regret that massacre of Sikh had occurred in Delhi when their was in Power in National Capital and also in India.

He said that if the conflict is found to be a part of the evidence of the massacre he was ready to ask for forgiveness from the Sikh community. He said that the investigation into the massacre by various commissions and agencies, but they found no evidence against him..

“Tytler posed the question as to who was behind it,he said that un-known congress worker whom he don`t know. but he were not behind the killings . Several leaders of the BJP and RSS were also behind the massacre , the case were registered against them and media had also published stories about it”, Tytler said.

Tytler said that CBI has Given Clean chit to him and other investing agencies found no proof against him, but due to politics of vote bank his name has been dragged repeatedly into this matter. He said that on October 31, the day of the late Prime Minister Indira Gandhi was assassinated in Delhi, he was present in Amethi instead of Delhi. November 1, he was with the body of Indira Gandhi, which is being recorded at that time by Doordarshan.

Reacting to a statement by senior Congress leader Jagdish Tytler, wherein he reportedly said that he wished to appear before Akal Takht, senior Supreme Court lawyer HS Phoolka said it was shocking and surprising on the part of the “main mastermind” of the 1984 Sikh genocide.

“I would meet Giani Gurbachan Singh tomorrow in Delhi and present a proof of Tytler’s involvement in the genocide,” he added.

Phoolka said the chief of the DSGMC had presented a siropa and a sword to Tytler even after a criminal case was registered against him. “Those elements may again try to facilitate Tytler’s meeting with the Jathedar,” Phoolka said. “I will urge the Jathedar to impress upon the Centre to arrest Tytler,” he said.