https://au.news.yahoo.com/thewest/wa/a/32864502/evil-8-accused-claims-anxiety-behind-court-no-show/
130
13
The accused outside court at an earlier court appearance. File picture: Michael Wilson/The West Australian

An alleged member of the Evil 8 paedophile ring has been refused bail after he failed to show up at court because he was overwhelmed and anxious.

Alfred John Impicciatore was arrested in the Royal Perth Hospital emergency department after he missed an appearance at Perth Magistrate's Court on September 9.

Mr Impicciatore, who has failed to arrive at court on time on four separate occasions, re-applied for bail this morning in a bid to get out of Hakea Prison.

Defence lawyer Mara Barone told the court her client had dealt with a "very confronting" court appearance in August when his previous lawyer was sick.

She said Mr Impicciatore was "insulted and assaulted" by members of the public, was forced to leave the court when he hid inside in an attempt to avoid the media and was refused help by police.

LATEST

ST JOHN PARAMEDIC FIGHTS FOR LIFE

GOVT SIGNS OFF ON $450M ROE 8 CONTRACTS

TENANTS TURFED FOR USING PUBLIC HOUSING AS CRIME BASE

TURN OFF YOUR GALAXY NOTE 7 IMMEDIATELY

$700K DEFAMATION AWARD

DAUGHTER FILMS PARENTS ON HEROIN

TRUMP'S CAMPAIGN TEETERS AS RYAN 'WON'T DEFEND HIM'

CHINA SEA EXERCISES TO SPELL 'TROUBLE'

ADULTS ARE LURED INTO JUNK FOOD TRAP TOO

Ms Barone said when he approached the court alone in September, Mr Impicciatore started to feel unwell, anxious and suicidal.

Instead of going inside, he went to the hospital's emergency department to get treatment.

Mr Impicciatore is accused of sexually assaulting a young girl whose rapist father advertised her on websites such as Craigslist.

He has been charged four counts of sexually penetrating a child, possessing child exploitation material and two counts of breaching bail.

The Wembley man has not entered a plea to any of the charges despite repeated warnings that his case must progress.

Prosecutor Justin Whalley said the case had already been in court for 1.5 years and it appeared Mr Impicciatore was dragging things out to avoid the inevitable.

He argued stress was not a good enough reason to skip a court appearance and said Mr Impicciatore had a history of not turning up.

"Instead of turning right he turns left and goes to Royal Perth Hospital," Mr Whalley said.

"This is a case in which a conviction is almost inevitable."

The court was told Mr Impicciatore had a history of mental health issues.

The psychiatrist who assessed Mr Impicciatore at RPH discharged him and made a note that he was fit to plead.

Magistrate Martin Flynn accepted Mr Impicciatore came to the city with the intention of answering his bail but was overwhelmed by the thought of the media presence outside court.

But he refused to grant bail again, saying there were no conditions he could put in place to prevent him from doing the same thing in the future.

"I have reached the view that although I accept that Mr Impicciatore felt anxious and generally felt ill, that when viewing his treatment on the day, that was not an illness which warranted his non appearance at court," Mr Flynn said.

Mr Impicciatore’s bail was revoked last year after his flatmates told police he had not been at his house for several weeks.

He has been granted fresh bail after two non-appearances and has had arrest warrants cancelled twice after he showed up late to court.

Mr Impicciatore has hired five different lawyers since he was charged with child sex offences.

The victim at the centre of the alleged paedophile ring was raped, molested, filmed and drugged by strangers over two years.

She was aged 11 when the abuse started.

The girl’s father, who was sentenced in June to more than 22 years jail, is appealing against the length of his prison term.

Community outrage erupted in August when it was revealed another member of the paedophile ring, Ryan Trevor Clegg, had been living metres from a daycare centre while awaiting sentence.

The Government responded with a decision to introduce an amendment to bail laws that would remove the presumption of bail for serious child sex offenders awaiting sentence.

Mr Impicciatore will face his ninth committal mention in Perth Magistrate's Court later this month.