http://mainlinemedianews.com/articles/2016/03/31/main_line_times/opinion/doc56f5574d557ca703713738.txt
203
20




The loss of American lives in the Iraq War is staggering: over 4,490 American soldiers died in Iraq War; over 32,000 U.S. soldiers were injured and many more were injured if you count those with traumatic brain injuries, post-traumatic stress disorder, depression, hearing loss, and other long term disorders. As of March 20, 2016 it is estimated that civilian deaths from the Iraq war has reached 155,929.



The Islamic State (ISIS) continues to create horror at home and abroad. There is no question that we must act. We must not, however, overreact. There is no more vital place where the President and Congress must get foreign policy exactly right.



A knockout blow against ISIS in Syria and Iraq is an important national security goal. We must realize, however, that radical Islamist groups encircle the globe from Belgium to Paris to Africa to Israel to Bali to Canada and to the United States.



In addition, we must have patience in pursuing ISIS and never repeat the mistakes of the Iraq War. By putting large numbers of American troops and contractors in harms-way and attempting to hold large swaths of territory in a foreign land, in the middle of a religious civil war, we harmed ourselves, in blood and treasure, more that the terror attacks themselves. The Iraq War has already cost taxpayers over 1.1 trillion dollars.



ISIS wants nothing more that to engage the U.S. in another large scale ground war. If they succeed, once again the spotlight will shift from their violence and their mass killing of innocents, to our soldiers. When we invade and hold territory, we change the narrative of war itself. Instead of the clarity of terrorist groups attacking innocent people, how our soldiers respond to becoming an occupying army becomes the narrative of the war and a recruiting tool for more terrorists. Every check point, every approaching car, every approaching person, every human who is misidentified as a terrorist and is killed or injured, becomes a rallying point for those who perpetuate hatred. Blame is heaped upon the United States for the horror terrorists groups have begun. Under the fog of war, terror groups flourish. This happened in Afghanistan and Iraq. It will happen again in Syria if we go all-in with a large occupying American force. We will never be able to “stand up” a local militia, if there is no local people or fighting force that cares enough about their own territory or freedom to fight for it.



So what do we do?



There have been only two approaches to war that have ever worked for the U.S. since WW II. They are the Powell Doctrine, as applied by George H. W. Bush in Desert Storm and supporting an indigenous force with air strikes as was done in Kosovo and Yugoslavia.



The Powell Doctrine states a list of questions to be answered affirmatively before military action is taken:



1 Is a vital national security interest threatened? 1

2

3

See Full Story The greatest threat posed by the Belgian and Paris bombings is not the bombings themselves, but how we, as a nation, will react or overreact to those bombings.The loss of American lives in the Iraq War is staggering: over 4,490 American soldiers died in Iraq War; over 32,000 U.S. soldiers were injured and many more were injured if you count those with traumatic brain injuries, post-traumatic stress disorder, depression, hearing loss, and other long term disorders. As of March 20, 2016 it is estimated that civilian deaths from the Iraq war has reached 155,929.The Islamic State (ISIS) continues to create horror at home and abroad. There is no question that we must act. We must not, however, overreact. There is no more vital place where the President and Congress must get foreign policy exactly right.A knockout blow against ISIS in Syria and Iraq is an important national security goal. We must realize, however, that radical Islamist groups encircle the globe from Belgium to Paris to Africa to Israel to Bali to Canada and to the United States.In addition, we must have patience in pursuing ISIS and never repeat the mistakes of the Iraq War. By putting large numbers of American troops and contractors in harms-way and attempting to hold large swaths of territory in a foreign land, in the middle of a religious civil war, we harmed ourselves, in blood and treasure, more that the terror attacks themselves. The Iraq War has already cost taxpayers over 1.1 trillion dollars.ISIS wants nothing more that to engage the U.S. in another large scale ground war. If they succeed, once again the spotlight will shift from their violence and their mass killing of innocents, to our soldiers. When we invade and hold territory, we change the narrative of war itself. Instead of the clarity of terrorist groups attacking innocent people, how our soldiers respond to becoming an occupying army becomes the narrative of the war and a recruiting tool for more terrorists. Every check point, every approaching car, every approaching person, every human who is misidentified as a terrorist and is killed or injured, becomes a rallying point for those who perpetuate hatred. Blame is heaped upon the United States for the horror terrorists groups have begun. Under the fog of war, terror groups flourish. This happened in Afghanistan and Iraq. It will happen again in Syria if we go all-in with a large occupying American force. We will never be able to “stand up” a local militia, if there is no local people or fighting force that cares enough about their own territory or freedom to fight for it.So what do we do?There have been only two approaches to war that have ever worked for the U.S. since WW II. They are the Powell Doctrine, as applied by George H. W. Bush in Desert Storm and supporting an indigenous force with air strikes as was done in Kosovo and Yugoslavia.The Powell Doctrine states a list of questions to be answered affirmatively before military action is taken:1 Is a vital national security interest threatened? Continued...





3 Have the risks and costs been fully analyzed?



4 Have all other non-violent policy means been fully exhausted?



5 Is there a plausible exit strategy to avoid endless war?



6 Have the consequences of our actions been fully considered?



7 Is the action supported by the American people?



8 Do we have genuine broad international support?



General Powell has added that when a nation is engaging in war, every resource should be used to achieve decisive victory against the enemy, minimizing U.S. casualties. The Powell Doctrine worked in Desert Storm but will it work against a proto-state like ISIS? The Second Iraq war has answered that question.



The other model for successful intervention was the war between former Yugoslavia and the Kosovo. President Clinton worked patiently with Britain’s David Owen to try to end the war through diplomatic means. In November of 1995, Bosnia, Serbia and Croatia signed the Dayton Peace Accords. Then, the Yugoslavian province of Kosovo sought independence. Irregular soldiers of the Kosovo Liberation Army began to attack Serbian police. Yugoslav President Milosevic sent in the Army, which began a horrendous campaign of ethnic cleansing.



In response, President Clinton did not put mass numbers of American soldiers in harms way. Instead, the American led NATO campaign began bombing Serbian targets including Belgrade power stations. Between economic sanctions and a bombing campaign, the Army turned on Milosevic, arrested him and handed him over to Western authorities for war crimes. The conflict in Kosovo came to an end. 1

2

3

See Full Story 2 Do we have a clear attainable objective?3 Have the risks and costs been fully analyzed?4 Have all other non-violent policy means been fully exhausted?5 Is there a plausible exit strategy to avoid endless war?6 Have the consequences of our actions been fully considered?7 Is the action supported by the American people?8 Do we have genuine broad international support?General Powell has added that when a nation is engaging in war, every resource should be used to achieve decisive victory against the enemy, minimizing U.S. casualties. The Powell Doctrine worked in Desert Storm but will it work against a proto-state like ISIS? The Second Iraq war has answered that question.The other model for successful intervention was the war between former Yugoslavia and the Kosovo. President Clinton worked patiently with Britain’s David Owen to try to end the war through diplomatic means. In November of 1995, Bosnia, Serbia and Croatia signed the Dayton Peace Accords. Then, the Yugoslavian province of Kosovo sought independence. Irregular soldiers of the Kosovo Liberation Army began to attack Serbian police. Yugoslav President Milosevic sent in the Army, which began a horrendous campaign of ethnic cleansing.In response, President Clinton did not put mass numbers of American soldiers in harms way. Instead, the American led NATO campaign began bombing Serbian targets including Belgrade power stations. Between economic sanctions and a bombing campaign, the Army turned on Milosevic, arrested him and handed him over to Western authorities for war crimes. The conflict in Kosovo came to an end. Continued...





In the fight against terror groups, we must work with local governments if they exist, or if the country is in civil war we must pick a side that both supports human rights and does not support terrorists and support our side with determination and resolve. When we do so effectively, our allies win, and peace comes sooner than where we decide to occupy a foreign land.



This takes patience. This takes resolve. This takes money but nowhere near the treasury draining expense as a full scale invasion or ramping up of forces by the tens of thousands. Let us learn from the past. Let’s show patience and resolve.



Finally, I cannot talk about war without mentioning the long term strategy of pursuing peace. The Bible commands us to “Seek peace and pursue it.” In the case of terrorists, this means leading foreign policy with the great American value of being able to live in peace, side by side, with people whose race, religion or national origin are different than our own. Referring to the Four Freedoms Speech by Franklin Delano Roosevelt in 1941, we need a foreign policy where people have freedom of speech, freedom of worship, freedom from want, and freedom from fear “everywhere in the world.”



Ultimately, when people are given a choice between a life of peace and prosperity versus a constant state of war, peace eventually wins out.



Brian Gordon is a candidate for U.S. Congress 2nd District. 1

2

3

See Full Story This model was followed recently in Iraq. With the advice of our best military minds, President Obama has increasingly given material support and air strike support to the Peshmerga Kurdish fighters and Yazidis in their efforts to drive out ISIS from north central Iraq liberating town after town. Just like in a full scale invasion, it is a slow process.In the fight against terror groups, we must work with local governments if they exist, or if the country is in civil war we must pick a side that both supports human rights and does not support terrorists and support our side with determination and resolve. When we do so effectively, our allies win, and peace comes sooner than where we decide to occupy a foreign land.This takes patience. This takes resolve. This takes money but nowhere near the treasury draining expense as a full scale invasion or ramping up of forces by the tens of thousands. Let us learn from the past. Let’s show patience and resolve.Finally, I cannot talk about war without mentioning the long term strategy of pursuing peace. The Bible commands us to “Seek peace and pursue it.” In the case of terrorists, this means leading foreign policy with the great American value of being able to live in peace, side by side, with people whose race, religion or national origin are different than our own. Referring to the Four Freedoms Speech by Franklin Delano Roosevelt in 1941, we need a foreign policy where people have freedom of speech, freedom of worship, freedom from want, and freedom from fear “everywhere in the world.”Ultimately, when people are given a choice between a life of peace and prosperity versus a constant state of war, peace eventually wins out.Brian Gordon is a candidate for U.S. Congress 2nd District.