http://smc.sd/en/2016/03/sudan-accused-of-arming-celica-movement-in-central-africa-causes-and-objectives/
203
20
During the past years, the World had witnessed core changes which resulted in the formation of a multi-polar world and displacement of forces that had dominance over the International policy. These are the previous western colonizing countries and the United States in particular. They had been dominant over the World since the break of the Soviet Union and the fall of the Berlin wall at the beginning of the nineties of last century.

It is not possible to arrive at a multi-polar world without a conflict between the traditional powers and those which had recently risen. Researchers in International Policy take as an example the conflict rising presently between Western Powers, headed by the United States of America, and between the new International Powers represented by the Group of BRIX Countries which include Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa beside other Regional gatherings like (NAFTA), (ASEAN), (MERCOSUR)….etc. They had obtained economic and political facilities that enabled them to play great roles at both the International and Regional levels, and had now gained a status that deserves to be taken account of.

Internal Conflict

The conflict becomes clear in the domination, hegemony and control over the markets in the Continent of Africa, which resembles the beginnings of the Western Colonization wave, and it is quite probable that the conflict witnessed in the region of Central Africa was just a form of that raging conflict.

The internal conflict that broke out in Central Africa two years ago is not considered to be a deviation from the general sequence in the Black Continent, which kept witnessing various types of conflicts; but the acuteness of that conflict and the deviation that took place, led that Country to fall in the blaze of a sectarian war, its parties being the Muslims and Christians of that Country. The two Parties used weapons that were infiltrated to their Country from abroad. According to International reports, the flow of weapons into that Country came from various sources. A report issued by the Organization of (Researches Armament in Conflict) in this January, asserted that the sources of those weapons and ammunitions were largely European, Asian and African. The contrast was the focus on a supposedly role of Sudan which was exaggerated at certain stages of conflict in that Country.

Accusing Sudan

Accusing Sudan as arming the CELICA Movement has many causes behind it. These include: Holding Sudan responsible in what was lately revealed by the United Nations Committee about a wide scope of ethnic cleansing against Muslims, beside war crimes in which CELICA Movement, which is formed from a majority of Muslims, was involved, and the Christian ANTI BLANCA Movement. Secondly: Holding innocent the European parties, which incidents point to their involvement in that conflict, especially the Western Companies which try to present there in aim of getting a share in that region.

Accusing Sudan comes also within the frame of attempting to spoil its Regional relations, especially with its neighboring countries. This comes in aim of isolating it and stirring doubts between it and its neighbors, in addition to stopping any form of cooperation projects between it and the neighborhood, and preventing any form joint cooperation projects between them. It is noticed that the way in which western weapons and ammunitions had arrived to CELICA, might be the same way in which they arrived to it from Sudan and other neighborhood Countries. There are different ways for the spread of small weapons, and the simplest way is the weapons market which is known historically in the region and in Africa in general. Moreover, Central Africa neighbors the regions of chronic conflicts in Southern Sudan, North Uganda, Congo and the Great Lakes Region. These regions are characterized by the easy cross of borders, in addition to the presence of organized networks for smuggling arms, humans, minerals and natural resources. China Model

There is a consensus that the influence of China over the African Continent has been increasing as, not just threatens the influence of the traditional States, but also threatening their future presence there, in a continent that is considered today as the cradle for natural resources, promising market, cheap labor power and great economic facilities. China, with its International economy escalating at a rate that stirs wonder even in the West, had introduced a model for International cooperation and exchange that is based on justice and investment in what is known as “Real Economy”. It is the one that achieves general benefit to citizens of the African Continent through providing work opportunities, widening the public services umbrella, in addition to training labor forces and students on the various productive skills. Western Information accuses China of robbing the African Continent wealth and enflaming conflicts through introduction of Chinese weapons to the conflicting parties, without being restricted by moral standards in International policy and the issue of Human Rights. Armament Race

Launching unreal accusations against China and its friendly countries in the African Continent had become a repeated pattern among Western Countries. The causes for those fears among the West are due to the great rise of China against the future Western International control and effect. There is a pattern assumed by the conflict between the West on one side and China and its Allies on the other side. It is the race of armament. That is the race towards the monopoly of the market of arms and military products which produce a great deal of profits to the countries which export them. Western Countries had kept control on this market, but now they are threatened by China, Russia and Brazil which defense capabilities had been increasing greatly .

The talk about the increase of infiltration of Sudanese armaments and ammunition to Central Africa, which had witnessed the peak of conflict between its components, after 2013; that is after CELICA had gained access to power, in aim of disfiguring Sudan’s portfolio. Some western circles started to talk lately about the spread of Sudanese arms in conflict regions. The objective behind that is the arrival at a hidden objective that greatly worries the Western Countries. That objective is the Sudan’s defensive abilities which are growing greatly, especially in respect of manufacturing weapons internally for defense purposes.

Third Party

Among observers, there are some who talk about the presence of a third party, who has an interest in causing war to break out in aim of making the blame on some countries, especially the neighboring countries, such as Sudan to Central Africa.. This gives chance to accuse Sudan for example due to its tensioned relations with some of the Western Countries, or due to the presence of great interests to some countries with some internal parties such as rebel movements as an example. Circles which constitute that party (which includes Companies, Countries and individuals …etc.), may package, or re-package weapons and delete the marks or statements which denote their origin, and fix statements or information that denote that Sudan is the origin, or at least hypothesize that Sudan might be the cross path through which those weapons and ammunitions had passed before arriving to the conflicting parties in Central Africa.

The source:

http://news.sudanvisiondaily.com/details.html?rsnpid=262190