http://reliefweb.int/report/syrian-arab-republic/129-individuals-killed-and-not-less-896-documented-breaches-beginning
203
20
I- Introduction

This report depicts the new breaches of the ceasefire agreement where daily reports about this occasion were issued since it started and up to 14 March 2016.

In this report we update the information about the ceasefire agreement since 14 up to 25 March 2016, when the negotiations stopped. Different Syrian governorates, especially regions under the control of armed opposition, witnessed a significant decline in the shelling and killing percentages since March 2011. However, it is worth noting that regions under the government control or Kurdish Self Management Forces are not subjected to government shelling which is considered responsible for killing more than 60% of the victims in addition to destroying houses and displacing its residents.

We noticed that the residents sent their children back to schools again and great numbers of patients went to hospitals to get treated since the shelling decrease as hospitals and schools were continuously shelled. Additionally, infrastructure rehabilitation was conducted since the shelling has decreased.

However, the Syrian regime continued to breach the ceasefire in several ways as it is one of the most affected parties regarding this agreement and unpublicized violations have been continuous like torturing detainees.

The Syrian regime continued to commit massacres against civilians in regions that are under ISIL’s control. Government forces committed two massacres in Al Raqqa governorate on 18 and 19 March 2016 since ISIL-controlled regions are not included in the ceasefire agreement.

In SNHR, we aspire that the cessation of hostilities shall transform into an entire ceasefire all over Syria with no exceptions. This action should be followed by a political process that does justice to all victims, holds all perpetrators accountable for their crimes, including the Syrian regime that violated the rights of Syrian people in several ways.