http://www.scoopnews.in/det.aspx?q=53419
202
20
Wednesday, November 2, 2016

Top Stories

Jammu News

Kashmir News

Ladakh News

Special Stories

Articles

Letters

Other Stories Your browser does not support inline frames or is currently configured not to display inline frames. News Details Army on top in Pakistan as 2015 ends







By Manzoor Ahmed









The supremacy of the Pakistan Army in the nation’s affairs, without formally taking power, has been near-complete as the year 2015 ends. The process that began when Asif Zardari was at the helm has made rapid strides, what with the military leading from the front in not only fighting terrorism and deciding foreign policy matters, but also in running special courts to tackle militancy and crime. The single biggest indicator is the increasingly accepted presence the high table of Army Chief, Gen. Raheel Sharif, be it the United States, China or the Gulf nations. He was in the loop during the brief visit to Lahore by Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi.







The hope that Pakistan would rise dramatically and decisively in the wake of the school children’s massacre in December 2014 was belied as the polity did not go beyond high-sounding resolves, leaving the action to the army. Indeed, as Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif’s government dithered, the army took anti-militancy operations into its own hands, compelling the government to publicly come on board. The Peshawar killings awakened the army into realizing that it must grab the initiative, leaving the civilian leadership to muddle through in running the economy and other areas. The Army Chief began by visiting Kabul to get the Ashraf Ghani regime on board in fighting militancy jointly, for mutual benefit. This, however, soured with both the Sharifs failing to rein in the Taliban – indeed, quietly facilitating the Taliban attacks into Afghanistan the moment the US/NATO forces withdrew from Afghanistan.









However, the army chief remains at the top in dealing with Kabul, and well beyond that, in dealing with all security-related issues and even diplomacy, making him the man of the hour.







Realising his own limitations and taking from his past follies, Nawaz has avoided anything remotely adverse against the army and has let it be known that he is on same page with the army brass. So much so that he surrendered the key National Security Advisor’s post from Sartaj Aziz, the ineffective civilian, that went to Lt. Gen. Janjua.







In sum, much of Pakistan’s politics throughout 2015 has revolved around the army’s actions and the government’s apathetic approach to governance.







To beef up a crumbling civilian structure, the army imposed civil–military ‘Apex Committees’ at provincial and federal levels. Made up of both military and political leaders, these committees are responsible for coordinating security policies. Importantly, they have been able to make significant policy decisions, bringing some order in governance. But nobody is in any doubt about the army calling the shots.







The army did have considerable success in breaking the nexus between the militant wings of the Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM) and the Pakistan People’s Party (PPP), which finance terror and crime syndicates in Karachi — Pakistan’s economic Achilles heel. While this has won them support from the public, it has created tensions with some of the political oligarchs in Karachi. Nawaz has watched this all, playing safe.







The army has used its clout to protect its former chief and president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, compelling Nawaz against punishing his bête noire. The treason case against Musharraf — the original reason for the discord between the government and the military — continues to be a source of tension. On his part, Musharraf has had no qualms giving media interviews defending himself in the cases pending before courts and occasionally, attacking India.







The army has called the civilian bluff, convinced that outbursts against them are orchestrated. An inherently weak, tainted civilian leadership is yet to understand that they cannot publicly ridicule the military and get away with it. And so the relations between the two have remained testy throughout 2015.



Army has succeeded where the politicians have failed. Since this tussle has happened many times in the past, the politicians, who normally slug it out among themselves, have stayed united to prevent a complete breakdown of the ‘democratic process’ and retain a modicum of their relevance.







While there are many who act or talk out of turn, the joker of the pack, it would seem, is also the main challenger of Nawaz – Imran Khan. He failed to prove that there was organised ballot rigging during the 2013 elections. His Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaaf (PTI) has suffered and has failed to show any tangible results in the restive Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province it rules. One result of the army-led action against the militants has been that Imran, who was their vociferous supporter, has piped down.







By comparison, the ruling Pakistan Muslim League (Nawaz) has shown relatively strong performance in local elections in Punjab. The rule of the Sharif brothers – Shahbaz is chief minister of the most powerful Punjab province -- is not under any political threat, as of now.







In wilderness after it lost power in 2013, the PPP has managed to stay relevant, running the Sindh province. But the Zardaris – father and son Bilawal, have not made much headway in posing a threat to Nawaz. In short, Pakistan’s polity remains divided, divisive, concerned with issues less relevant to the public and keen on self-preservation.



The Sharif family rules the roost in Pakistan so far as the economy is concerned. The bureaucracy and the economy are run through a predatory group made up of Sharif’s family members and close associates from the time of his first government in the early 1990s. The cabinet has reportedly met only three times in 2015. The governance remains poor.









The Finance Ministry, run by a close Sharif relative, unashamedly fudges budget figures, concealing the true financial position of the government from the public. There is little accountability when it comes to failures on the economic front.









The US is funding the Pakistani economy to keep it going. Funds are funneled through both civilian/economic measures and for funding military aimed at fighting militancy.







While the IMF has shown confidence in the economy, many notable economists have warned of the risks of excessive borrowing and the possibility that Pakistan is slipping into a debt trap.



Pakistan’s record so far as minorities are concerned, remains poor. Basic laws pertaining to these sections are absent, while issues are debated and promises made are rarely kept. The government’s unstated fear is from the Islamists. Even as campaign against the militants and sectarian groups continues by the army, the minorities have continued to bear the wrath of religious fanaticism. This underscores the army’s limitations.







After a brief bonhomie when President Ashraf Ghani took power in Kabul, relations with Afghanistan are rocky again. Ghani has repeatedly accused Pakistan of unleashing the Taliban on his territory, while Islamabad blames Kabul for allowing TTP militants and others to escape the Zarb-e-Azb military operation by fleeing to Afghan territory.







Iran and Pakistan are caught on opposing sides in Afghanistan and in their relations with the Gulf states. Relations with Saudi Arabia, the original holy cow because it is the custodian of the Islam’s top shrines, have soured, somewhat, after Pakistan did not join the Saudi campaign in Yemen and is not likely to join the Saudi-led 43 nation alliance to fight terrorism.









This was because they are already over-stretched on the borders and in fighting militants and want no hand in taking military operations abroad. It was resistance from within the military leadership, and the country at large, that kept Pakistan from Nawaz’s initial commitment to send ground troops to the Saudi led war in Yemen. Now, this will have implications for Pakistan’s long-term engagement with the Gulf Cooperation Council countries who are unhappy at Islamabad’s refusal.







Pakistan is watching strengthening of Iran–India relations with considerable suspicion. There is sustained understanding between India, Iran and Russia, on how to counter Pakistani plans in Afghanistan.







The India-Pakistan statement late in the year announcing resumption of dialogue process offered a glimmer of hope for peace. The sudden visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi could not be without a nod from the army. Nawaz would need to keep the army on board and hold the Islamists at bay while making every move with India. He is acutely aware that the army can always thwart peace moves with India by igniting skirmishes or firing on the border.







The Pak-US ties have somewhat stabilised following military action to eliminate militants from North Waziristan. But the United States continues to make demands on Pakistan in pursuit of its global counter-terrorism agenda.







The formal signing of an agreement to commence work on the China–Pakistan Economic Corridor was the big news of 2015. The agreement both reinforces China’s commitment to Pakistan and serves China’s strategic interests. This is a major achievement of the Nawaz Government. But everything would depend upon how he is able to deliver, particularly in the restive Balochistan province.









The move to get the army chief a fresh term and the worry about Nawaz’s own tenure ending in 2018, are the twin worries of Pakistan.









(The author is a Kashmir based Freelance Journalist)











(Disclaimer: The views, observations and opinions expressed in above write up of Scoop News are strictly author's own. Scoop News does not take any onus or liability for the veracity, accuracy, validity, completeness, suitability of any of information in the above given write up. The information, facts or figures appearing in the write up in no way manifest the position, standpoint or stance of Scoop News and the Scoop News does not assume any encumbrance or answerability of the same.)





Editor

Scoop News,(scoopnews.in)

... Share this Story Comment On this Story Back Issuesk Issues If you are looking for Issues beyond today. You can simply use this calendar tool to view Issue of Scoop News for any particular Date. Get the Twitter / ScoopNewsJnK widget and many other great free widgets at Widgetbox ! Not seeing a widget? ( More info Heating Pads | Knee Heating Pad | Foot Warmers Shridev Sharma, Kamrup Housing, Durva Greens © Scoop News, Jammu Kashmirr Home || About Us || Advertise With Us || Disclaimer || Contact Us Powered by Web Design Jammu