http://www.thenational.scot/world/united-states-obama-moves-to-tighten-gun-contol.11951
202
20
United States: Obama moves to tighten gun contol

If you would prefer unlimited access, please support our journalism with a website subscription. Subscribe today for just £3.99 a month.

Registered users can read up to 10 articles for free each month.

Will fin breid, barley-bree an paintit room. Whan MacLean meets wi's friens in Springburn. Aa thae roses an geeans will turn tae blume. An a black laud frae yont Nyanga. Dings the fell gallows o the burghers doun.

Black an white ane-til-ither mairriet. Mak the vile barracks o thair maisters bare. Sae come aa ye at hame wi freedom. Never heed whit the houdies croak for Doom. In yer hous aa the bairns o Aidam.

Tak the road an seek ither loanins. Wi thair ill-ploys tae sport an play. Nae mair will our bonnie callants. Merch tae war whan our braggarts crousely craw. Nor wee weans frae pitheid an clachan. Murn the ships sailin doun the Broomielaw. Broken faimilies in launs we've hairriet. Will curse 'Scotlan the Brave' nae mair, nae mair.

Roch the win i the clear day's dawin. Blaws the clouds heilster-gowdie owre the bay. But thair's mair nor a roch win blawin. Thro the Great Glen o the warl the day. It's a thocht that wad gar our rottans. Aa thae rogues that gang gallus fresh an gay.

PRESIDENT Barack Obama has moved to tighten gun laws in the US following a series of mass shootings, saying his plan will save lives. However, the proposals are sure to be met with opposition in Congress and the gun industry lobby.

PRESIDENT Barack Obama has moved to tighten gun laws in the US following a series of mass shootings, saying his plan will save lives. However, the proposals are sure to be met with opposition in Congress and the gun industry lobby.

Obama wants to require that all gun sellers to register as dealers – even those who sell at gun shows and online – and for background checks to be run on all prospective purchasers.

He has been looking for ways to work round a Republican-led Congress that has blocked his previous efforts to tighten gun laws.

Obama has accused Republicans – and some Democrats – of being beholden to the gun industry lobby and opposing some measures he says a majority of Americans support, including expanded background checks on gun sales.

But the issue of gun control is one that bitterly divides Americans, with many viewing any attempt to regulate firearms as a possible infringement on their constitutional right to own guns.

“This is not going to solve every violent crime in this country,” Obama said. But he added: “It will potentially save lives and spare families the pain of these extraordinary losses.”

The president’s plan to broaden background checks forms the centrepiece of a broader package of measures he wants to take on gun control in his final year in office.

Although he cannot unilaterally change gun laws, he hopes that beefing up enforcement of existing laws can prevent at least some gun deaths in a country where they are rife.

Under current law, only federally licensed gun dealers must conduct background checks on buyers. But many who sell guns at flea markets, on websites or other informal settings do not register as dealers.

Gun control advocates say that loophole is exploited to skirt the background check requirement.

The executive actions on gun control fall far short of what Obama and like-minded politicians attempted to accomplish with legislation in 2013, after the Sandy Hook school massacre in Connecticut the previous year shook the nation’s conscience.

Even the more modest measures are sure to spark a confrontation with Republicans and gun rights groups that oppose new impediments to buying guns.

“We’re very comfortable that the president can legally take these actions now,” said Attorney General Loretta Lynch.

Obama’s announcement was hailed by Democratic politicians and gun control groups such as the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence, which claimed he was making history with “bold and meaningful action” that would make all Americans safer.

Democratic presidential frontrunner Hillary Clinton, at a rally in Iowa, said she was “so proud” of Obama. She warned the next president could easily undo his changes but added: “I won’t wipe it away.”

Republicans were quick to attack Obama, with senator Bob Corker denouncing the moves as “divisive and detrimental to real solutions”.

Corker said: “I will work with my colleagues to respond appropriately to ensure the Constitution is respected.”

Far from mandating background checks for all gun sales, the new guidance still exempt collectors and gun hobbyists, and the exact definition of who must register as a dealer and conduct background checks remains vague.

The administration did not issue figures on how many guns someone must sell to be considered a dealer.

Instead said it planned to remind people that courts have deemed people to be dealers in some cases even if they only sell a handful of guns.