http://www.blackagendareport.com/node/4910
202
20
Dismantling Capitalism and Imperialism

This month’s conference on the Black Radical Tradition, held at Temple University, in Philadelphia, was an historic gathering of 21st century Black “anti-capitalists and anti-imperialists,” said Dr. Anthony Monteiro, one of the organizers of the event. “Not only were we talking about a different foreign policy, but about dismantling the military-industrial and police state in the U.S.,” said Monteiro. He envisions “massive civil disobedience that will take place over extended periods of time, where you make those who benefit from the police state and the military-industrial complex pay a price.”

Flint Takes U.S. Ethnic Cleansing to a New Level

The lead poisoning of Flint, Michigan’s water system is “a crime against humanity – part of the ongoing story of ethnic cleansing in the United States,” said Black Agenda Report editor and columnist Dr. Marsha Coleman-Adebayo, who two decades ago blew the whistle on corruption and racism at the Environmental Protection Agency. Dr. Coleman-Adebayo said the EPA “completely and totally abandoned its mission” to safeguard Flint’s water quality, and the agency’s regional administrator “should be sent to jail,” instead of just being forced to resign.

Uhuru! Sign the Genocide Petition

Despite frigid weather, the Uhuru Movement set up tent encampments in Jackson, Mississippi, New York City, Chicago and Washington, DC, where the United Nations has been holding hearings on human rights violations against Black people in the United States. International People’s Democratic Uhuru Movement president Herdosia Bentum said “this cold is not as brutal as the system that has been on our backs for 600 years.” Uhuru activists are collecting signatures on a petition charging the U.S. with genocide against Blacks.

Campus Tour: No More Stolen Lives

The Stop Mass Incarceration Network, founded five years ago by Carl Dix and Dr. Cornel West, is holding regional conferences in cities around the country “to forge the kind of movement that can stop the horror of police getting away with murder in this country, said Dix. The gatherings in New York, Charlotte, Chicago, San Francisco and Los Angeles will put the finishing touches on a “No More Stolen Lives” tour of college campuses, to bring more students into movement politics.

CLICK BELOW TO HEAR BLACK AGENDA RADIO

Black Agenda Radio on the Progressive Radio Network is hosted by Glen Ford and Nellie Bailey. A new edition of the program airs every Monday at 11:00am ET on PRN. Length: one hour.