http://www.thetidenewsonline.com/2016/03/30/herdsmen-the-unending-menace/
203
20
With the incessant

spilling of human blood in different parts of the country for whatever flimsy reason, one cannot help but wonder how we got to this level. How is it that human lives no longer matter in Nigeria? From cultism to politics, religious to tribal, communal to many other reasons, hundreds of innocent citizens are being daily wasted in the country.

Just imagine the reason for the recent massacre by herdsmen in Agatu Community in Benue State. The leader of the herdsmen in the besieged community reportedly claimed that over 10,000 of their cattle were allegedly killed by the people of the area and in retaliation they went and razed down seven villages, killing over 200 men, women and children indiscriminately.

One is not by any means supporting the alleged killing of the cattle but can that truly justify the mindless spewing of human blood and the great destruction? Incidentally, this is not the first time Agatu is experiencing the wrath of herdsmen. Just last year, another village in the community Egba was attacked. Though reports put the death toll at 90, the police claimed only 30 corpses were recovered.

For several years other parts of the country, notably the South East, South West and South South have also had their share of the brutal attack of the herdsmen who would not spare any community that dares questions the destruction of their farmlands and crops by their cattle.

The loss of lives and massive destruction of property that usually attend the attacks are indications of how heavily armed the cattle rearers are. From a group of stick – wielding pastoralists, living essentially normalic life, the Fulani herdsmen have metamorphosed into arms bearing fighting force. Yet we are in a country that criminalizes illegal possession of arms.

Why both current and past government have not taken any concrete action to stop this barbaric act is still a puzzle to many. Of course, President Muhammadu Buhari has ordered an investigation into the latest massacre in Agatu, the Senate has equally assured to look into the matter, but what will be the outcome of these? Will this not go the way of previous massacres where anybody was hardly ever made to account for their deadly acts?

No doubt, the failure to address this problem all these past years has emboldened the herdsmen to carry on with the unbridled trampling on the rights of other Nigerians peaceful living in their communities. It has continued to flame the ember of hatred among various communities, religions and tribes.

So, as many distinguished Nigerians have suggested, it is high time the Federal government took a decisive action to put an end to the atrocities being committed by the herdsmen. Nobody should be above the law no matter their social class, religious or ethic learning.

There is no way we can prevent the reoccurrence of the inhuman act if the marauders are not arrested and prosecuted in accordance with the law. Already, there are various dangerous interpretations to government’s inability to tackle the problem and this is the time for Buhari to dispel all doubts about his position in the matter by taking all necessary steps to ensure the carnage does not happen again. This includes making sure that the invaders are fished out and made to face the consequences of their actions.

Meanwhile, last week reports have it that there is tension and fear among the residents of Ugwuneshi autonomous community in Awgu local government area of Enugu State, following the alleged arrest of 76 of their people by “men in military uniform” over a clash with Fulani herdsmen. Both Federal and State government should take urgent measures to handle the delicate situation to avoid a repeat of Agatu experience in Awgu.

Government should give the citizens reasons to believe that their lives are valued and must be protected.

Similarly, the Senators advice that the Federal Government should check the proliferation of arms around the country and retrieve them should be seriously considered. The country is already facing a big security battle, no thanks to Boko Haram insurgent group, and allowing unauthorized people to continue to bear arms at will and use them to terrorize others surely portends danger for the country.

Most importantly, Nigeria should tow the line of the developed countries who keep their animals in ranches. In no advanced country can you see cattle roaming freely on the properties of other people and causing problem for their countries. Both Federal, State, local government even cattle owners who make money from this business, can join hands in establishing ranches and grazing reserves across the country and adopt other strategies to enable herdsmen settle to modern systems of livestock farming.

At this critical time when people are being encouraged to go into farming to ensure availability of food in the country and to curtail food importation, herdsmen should not be allowed to empty their cattle into cultivated farmlands and destroy crops and farmlands.

Most importantly, peaceful co-existence must be encouraged and promoted among farmers and herdsmen and people of all tribes and religions as we obviously need each other.

Calista Ezeaku