http://www.standardmedia.co.ke/article/2000220087/north-rift-farmers-hold-protests-over-poor-maize-prices
139
13


Updated Tue, October 18th 2016 at 00:00 GMT +3

Farmers drawn from the North rift region demonstrate in the streets of Eldoret,Uasin Gishu County yesterday. They want maize and wheat prices to be increased to 3,000 for Maize and Wheat for 3,200.They have given the Government a 14-day ultimatum to give new prices for their grains.This comes as the region begin harvesting their grains Photo By ELIUD KIPSANG. 17/10/2016

Even as Kenyans in some parts of the country go without food, farmers in the country's grain basket of the North Rift are spending sleepless nights seeking a market for their bumper harvest.

Demonstrations rocked Eldoret town yesterday, with farmers issuing a 14-day ultimatum to the State to review producer prices.

Producers of maize and wheat, the country's main staple foods, fear incurring huge post-harvest losses due to lack of stores and failure by the Government to offer better prices in the strategic food reserve, under the National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB).

The challenge has been recurrent, prompting farmers to stage street protests after successive harvests to compel the Government to buy their produce and also set better prices commensurate with the skyrocketing cost of inputs and other operational costs.

The North Rift counties of Trans Nzoia, Uasin Gishu, Nandi and Elgeyo Marakwet produce an average of 12 million 90kg bags of maize annually, which farmers said can be bought from them and supplied to regions with food shortages to address the crisis.

The counties worst hit by drought include West Pokot, Taita Taveta, Tharaka Nithi, Samburu, Wajir, Mandera and Isiolo, which have experienced decline in food and livestock production.

Farmers said they find it ironical that Kenyans in some parts of the country are starving when they have abundance of food stocks, achieved through year-long toil.

"This is our most difficult year. There was delay in fertiliser distribution and when it finally arrived, most of us got fake supplies that hugely affected our production. We asked for compensation and the Agriculture minister ruled that out and promised favourable prices after harvest. However, they have turned their backs on us now," said Mr Musa Barno, the Uasin Gishu branch Kenya National Farmers Federation chairman.

Barno said they may be forced to walk to State House if the Government does not publicly declare an increment in maize and wheat purchase prices at NCPB depots.

Mr Patrice Chepkwony, a farmer, slammed the Jubilee administration for failing the farmer. He said the Grand Coalition Government had tremendously improved their livelihoods by cutting down the cost of production and offering good prices through NCPB.

"We had 10 years of happiness under President Kibaki's regime. It is sad that the Jubilee leadership has prioritised political campaigns and neglected economic development and food security issues, leaving farmers to languish in poverty," said an agitated Chepkwony.

A director of the Kenya Farmers Association (KFA), Mr Kipkorir Menjo, said: "We are not going to settle for anything less than Sh3,000 per 90kg bag of maize and Sh3,200 for the same quantity of wheat. The Government is used to taking us for a ride and overlooking farmers' needs."