http://www.thedailystar.net/world/europe/taliban-ambush-convoy-us-british-tourists-1264840
130
13
Taliban militants attacked a group of 12 American and European tourists escorted by an Afghan army convoy in western Herat province yesterday, leaving at least seven people wounded as the insurgents step up nationwide attacks.

The tourists -- eight British, three Americans and one German national -- were ambushed by Taliban gunmen in the restive district of Chesht-e-Sharif, while en route from the neighbouring provinces of Bamiyan and Ghor.

It is unclear why they were travelling overland at a time when Western embassies typically warn their citizens against all travel in Afghanistan, citing threats of kidnapping and attacks.

"The foreign tourists -- three Americans, six Britons, two Scots and one German -- were travelling with an Afghan army convoy when they were ambushed by the Taliban in Chesht-e-Sharif," said Jilani Farhad, the spokesman for Herat's governor.

He said the insurgents had been repelled and the foreigners were being escorted to Herat city, adding that the attack left at least six foreigners and their Afghan driver wounded.

Local authorities released photographs of some of the foreigners being treated in a district hospital for apparently minor injuries.

The Taliban claimed the attack on "foreign invaders" as they intensify their annual summer offensive after a brief lull during the holy fasting month of Ramadan, which ended in early July.

Meanwhile, a Pakistani government helicopter crash-landed in eastern Afghanistan , officials said, without confirming reports six people on board were taken hostage by the Taliban.

"Six people were boarding it, but we are unaware of their fate," a senior government official based in Lahore told AFP on condition of anonymity.

The helicopter was being sent to Uzbekistan for overhauling when it crashed in Azra district, in the restive Afghan province of Logar, the official added.

Earlier, local district governor Hamidullah Hamid said six people on board had been taken hostage by the Taliban and transported to an unknown location.

The insurgents have not so far commented on the incident.

Kabul has long accused Pakistan of supporting the Taliban and nurturing sanctuaries on its soil in the hope of maintaining influence in Afghanistan.