http://www.tngovwatch.org/audio-robert-spencer-on-the-herman-cain-show-discussing-the-us-response-to-the-islamic-state-southern-california-muslims-screaming-allahu-akbar-fire-hundreds-of-shots-in-re/
201
20
Audio: Robert Spencer on the Herman Cain Show discussing the US response to the Islamic State By Robert Spencer on Mar 29, 2016 08:20 pm Earlier today I was on Herman Cain’s radio show, discussing the Islamic State (ISIS), and the Obama administration’s willful ignorance regarding the jihad threat. Read in browser » Maine: Muslims “frustrated” by “backlash” after Brussels jihad massacre By Robert Spencer on Mar 29, 2016 04:19 pm What backlash? Muslims attacked? Mosques burned? Laws passed barring Muslims from entering airports? No. Actually, there has been no backlash at all: “violence against Maine’s estimated 6,000 Muslims has not been a serious problem.” So where’s the backlash? Why, one Muslim says that “the anger and hostility displayed nationally during the political campaign season eventually […] Read in browser » Pakistan: 25,000 supporters of blasphemy law clash with police, set fire to cars By Robert Spencer on Mar 29, 2016 02:53 pm Tiny minority of extremists. “Islamists call for Sharia law in Pakistan after Salman Taseer blasphemy row,” by Samuel Osborne, Independent, March 28, 2016: Thousands of protesters have clashed with police in Islamabad in the second day of protests over blasphemy laws in Pakistan. Demonstrators gathered outside Parliament and other key buildings to demanding authorities implement […] Read in browser » Minnesota: Muslim in contact with Islamic State jihadis threatens to “shoot up,” “blow up” a Walgreens By Robert Spencer on Mar 29, 2016 02:31 pm His attorney, however, assures us that he is “mild-mannered,” so relax, you greasy Islamophobe. “Man Charged With Threatening to Shoot, Blow up Walgreens,” by Amy Forliti, Associated Press, March 29, 2016 (thanks to Lookmann): A Minnesota man accused of lying to the FBI about when he last contacted the Islamic State group was charged Tuesday […] Read in browser » Southern California: Muslims screaming “Allahu akbar” fire hundreds of shots in remote area, are arrested and released By Robert Spencer on Mar 29, 2016 02:00 pm Below are four reports about this incident. Only the sensationalistic SuperStation95 claims that these Muslims opened fire on hikers and campers, which would seem to be difficult to cover up if true; however, I’ve included their report here because it contains numerous photos of those who were arrested, as well as messages from a witness […] Read in browser » Robert Spencer in FrontPage: Paris Jihadis Went Dancing, Then Went Killing By Robert Spencer on Mar 29, 2016 11:00 am Exploding another media myth in FrontPage today: Footage has emerged of Paris jihad murderers Salah Abdeslam and his brother Brahim dancing at a Brussels nightclub several months before they murdered 130 people. The UK’s Daily Mail, always determined to ignore the jihadi mindset and motivations and misrepresent both as quite other than what they are, […] Read in browser » New York Times: Governments can’t figure out why people become terrorists, they “defy a single profile” By Robert Spencer on Mar 29, 2016 09:33 am This lengthy New York Times article is one long exercise in willful ignorance. “The brothers who carried out suicide bombings in Brussels last week had long, violent criminal records and had been regarded internationally as potential terrorists. But in San Bernardino, Calif., last year, one of the attackers was a county health inspector who lived […] Read in browser » Belgium: Imams refuse to pray for the souls of the non-Muslim victims of Brussels jihad massacre By Robert Spencer on Mar 29, 2016 09:02 am “It is not for the Prophet and those who have believed to ask forgiveness for the polytheists, even if they were relatives, after it has become clear to them that they are companions of Hellfire.” (Qur’an 9:113) “There has already been for you an excellent pattern in Abraham and those with him, when they said […] Read in browser » Brussels jihadi was “migrants’ rights activist” By Robert Spencer on Mar 29, 2016 08:42 am UPDATE: Cheffou has been freed for lack of evidence. ———- Could he have had a hidden agenda in wanting to bring Muslim migrants into Europe? Why, the very thought of it is “Islamophobic”! “Police capture ‘man in hat’ bomb suspect,” by Bojan Pancevski, Sunday Times, March 27, 2016 (thanks to Daniel Greenfield): A MIGRANTS’ rights […] Read in browser » Washington Post: “Fighting terrorism may actually increase the risk of terrorist attacks” By Robert Spencer on Mar 29, 2016 08:34 am Washington Post to West: Drop dead. Lie down and die. Don’t you dare fight back against jihad terrorism — that will only lead to…jihad terrorism. “Fighting terrorism may actually increase the risk of terrorist attacks. Here’s how,” by Thomas Jensen, Washington Post, March 29, 2016: Days before the Brussels attacks on March 22, Belgian authorities […] Read in browser » UK: National Union of Teachers rejects teaching “fundamental British values” as “cultural supremacism” By Robert Spencer on Mar 29, 2016 07:33 am “We need to fight to reject this notion of British values.” The alternative is cultural and national suicide, but few seem to care in Britain, and those who do are being closely watched by authorities, lest they get out of line. As a free society, Britain is finished. “Teaching children fundamental British values is act […] Read in browser »