http://www.indystar.com/story/news/2016/05/01/business-body-snatching-indianapolis/83544696/
202
20
Buy Photo An Aug. 8, 1903, IndyStar story details the confessions of grave robber Rufus Cantrell. (Photo: IndyStar archives)Buy Photo

When a young girl's family visited her grave the day after her burial, their grief turned to horror when they found her tiny slipper lying in the snow next to her grave. Indianapolis went into an uproar.

Then complaints of similar occurrences started. Disturbed graves and hints of tampering were noted. Investigations began, and they had a suspect.

When police arrested Rufus Cantrell on suspicion of grave robbing in 1901, they had no idea the scope of the operation. Newspaper accounts referred to Cantrell as "The King of the Ghouls," a grave-robbing syndicate that emptied graves across Indianapolis for the purpose of selling them to medical colleges. Cantrell spilled the beans on every operation and rode with police around the city pointing out more than 100 empty graves. He even led them to the basements of several medical colleges and implicated the doctors who ran the institutions. Cantrell also helped police close investigations of several high-profile missing-persons cases — admitting their bodies were taken to medical colleges and then disposed of.

Medical students needed the hands-on study of human anatomy, yet there were no legal ways for medical schools to procure cadavers for dissections. Students would take matters into their own hands and steal corpses, but in the late 1890s, the practice of stealing corpses by unscrupulous individuals was big business — and business was booming.

They were called night ghouls, body snatchers and resurrectionists.

There were two rules for grave robbing — wait until the mourners had left the cemetery and never allow a subject to lie in its grave overnight.

Early grave robbing was sloppy, careless and attracted attention. Grave robbers then changed their tactics and placed the clothes back in the grave. Jewels and keepsakes were a bonus, but they had to be careful not to sell them locally for fear of the pieces being recognized.

Body snatching was a three-man operation: one to drive the carriage and two to remove the remains. It was customary to open the grave and pull the corpse out with an iron hook placed under the chin. The body was stripped naked and wrapped in heavy cloth, leaving the shrouds and clothes behind. The grave was restored, bodies delivered and the robbers paid $15-$30 for an hour's work.

Central State Hospital cemetery at West Washington Street and Tibbs Avenue, Greenlawn Cemetery along the White River just north of what would later become Kentucky Avenue, and Mount Jackson cemetery at 210 N. Tibbs were routinely targeted by the robbers. But news accounts indicate cemeteries across the Indianapolis area and beyond were easy targets of the robbers.

Grave robbers became a dying breed when the state legislature created the State Anatomical Board as a result of the conviction of Cantrell and his ghoul syndicate. Unclaimed bodies and indigent dead were registered with the board and either buried in county cemeteries or donated to medical colleges when they requested a cadaver.

Call Star producer Dawn Mitchell at (317) 444-6497. Follow her on Twitter: @dawn_mitchell61.

Buy Photo (Photo: Indianapolis News)

Read or Share this story: http://indy.st/26H5sKq