http://www.dailykos.com/story/2016/5/1/1522040/-Key-and-Peele-sum-up-our-foreign-policy-disasters-on-the-Daily-Show-Aleppo-Iraq-Libya
202
20
"Felons" explain the stupidity of our Foreign policy

As documented by others like gjohnsit currently on Iraq, and fisknp on Aleppo and written about by me earlier this week concerning Libya, things are not getting better.

I was especially mad to know that Gaddafi was so desperate to get a deal for Peace to stop the bombing of his people that he reached out to Dennis Kucinich for a diplomatic solution. Kucinich’s letter to the administration to get a halt of the NATO bombing campaign was largely ignored as our focus became regime change of Gaddafi — leaving the country ripe for ISIS to set up a base.

The past decade of Interventionist Wars and Regime change, in Iraq, Libya and now Syria are showing the United States that we have to fundamentally change our long term strategy.

Now Iraq’s government seems to be falling to protestors.

2 days ago, a hospital for children was air bombed in Aleppo, Syria, and the Washington Post now writes that the United States should rethink it’s approach to Assad’s regime:

For weeks the regime of Bashar al-Assad has been proclaiming its intention to recapture the rebel-held eastern side of Aleppo, with help from “our Russian partners,” as the prime minister put it. The bombing of hospitals and food markets, in turn, is a standard component of Mr. Assad’s military campaigns, intended to drive civilians out of rebel-held areas. By Saturday, the Aleppo offensive was in its ninth day; according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, 226 civilians had been killed by bombing and shelling through Friday, including 50 women and children. Yet U.S. and U.N. officials were still clinging to the fiction that the “cessation of hostilities” they said began on Feb. 27, and which the Assad regime never fully observed, was still somehow alive

So what have the results been in these efforts?

The result in Iraq — ISIS, a separate Kurdish state, and ongoing civil war.

The result in Libya — Al Qaeda and ISIS — and documented evidence of ethnic cleansing of entire towns of Black Libyans.

Syria — Cease fires ignored by Assad and civilians are being bombed, and ISIS is there too

And, by the way, the weapons cache that the rebels gathered from the Libyan Military went straight into ISIS efforts throughout the Middle East and parts of Africa.

I was thoroughly attacked for writing about Libya, because I pointed out Sec. Clinton’s role in pushing for regime change. So be it. Some body has got to recognize staying with this strategy is not working.

We must recognize that this strategy is not empowering allies, it is empowering ISIS.

I was distraught, until the Daily Show had Key and Peele talking about why felons should not be allowed to vote.

x YouTube Video

At 1:40 in the clip:

We felons don’t have the aptitude to make informed Political decisions. I mean straight up dog, I use violence to solve my problems in the short term without regard for the long term, much like how America’s disastrous foreign policy decisions in the Middle East destabilized the region and led to the emergence of the Islamic State!

Maybe humor is the only way we can look at this and start to consider a change in our military strategy.

I am too sick and tired of seeing my friends from other countries or who have relatives in these countries posting on Facebook, videos and pictures of bloodied children on operating tables or crushed under collapsed buildings.

To cheer me up, and you as well, I hold out this possibility.

x YouTube Video

We need a new way for PEACE.

Bernie Sanders “No more Wars”

Amen.