https://www.politicshome.com/news/uk/social-affairs/discrimination/news/74483/jeremy-corbyn-invited-visit-israel-amid-anti
203
20
The Israeli ambassador to the UK has called for Jeremy Corbyn to visit his country amid the anti-Semitism row that is engulfing the Labour party.

Mark Regev urged the party’s leadership to provide an “unequivocal” condemnation of anti-Semitism after outrage over Ken Livingstone’s controversial statements this week.

The former mayor of London stoked fury among Labour MPs by claiming Hitler had supported Zionism in the 1930 "before he went mad and ended up killing six million Jews".

Mr Regev roundly criticised Mr Livingstone for his claims, branding them a “perversion of history”.

Turning to the Labour leadership, he encouraged Mr Corbyn to take a more vocal stance against anti-Semitism.

“I think it’s crucial for leadership to stand up and to condemn anti-Semitism in unequivocal terms. I think it’s important that leadership is also not neutral or agnostic about anti-Semitism,” he told the Andrew Marr show.

The ambassador also had a thinly-veiled warning for Mr Corbyn and other politicians who defend or affiliate with resistance groups Hamas and Hezbollah.

The Labour leader reportedly once branded members of the factions as his "friends".

“You’ve had too many people on the progressive side of politics who have embraced Hamas and Hezbollah. Both of them are anti-Semitic organisations, you just have to read Hamas’ charter and it’s like chapters straight out of the prodigals of the elders of Zion. Yet some progressive politicians have embraced Hamas,” he said.

“Now, I’d ask the following question: if you’re progressive, you’re embracing an organisation which is homophobic, which is misogynistic, which is openly anti-Semitic, what’s progressive about that?”

It comes after Mr Corbyn yesterday announced an inquiry into claims of anti-Semitism and racism within the Labour party.

Mr Regev said that while criticism of the Israeli government is completely legitimate, comments in the last few weeks has crossed into "demonising and villifying" the Jewish state.

He said he would “love” to meet the Labour leader in person to discuss the issue and encouraged the veteran to take heed of the Israeli Labour party to visit the country in the near future.

“Of course, yesterday the leader of our Labour party and their sister parties… invited Jeremy Corbyn to visit Israel and I hope he does so,” said.

LIVINGSTONE

Mr Livingstone spoke out on Thursday as he denied Labour MP Naz Shah - who has been suspended from the party over Facebook posts suggesting Israel should be "relocated" to America - was anti-Semitic.

Mr Regev sought to dismiss Mr Livingstone’s assertions regarding Hitler’s approach to Jews upon being elected in 1932.

“In the first years of the third Reich, when Hitler was consolidating his power, so his policy was to ethnically cleanse Germany of all its Jewish population…,” he told the Andrew Marr show.

“The Jewish agency was out there energetically trying to save Jews getting them out. Of course they were saving lives because people who stayed behind, most of them were murdered. There were people in this country, great British people who were organising the Kindertransport.

“Hundreds, many hundreds of Jewish children’s lives were saved by those very good British People. Now were we collaborating with the Germans by trying to get our people out to save their lives? Of course not, it is a horrendous and perverted perversion of history.”