http://www.tribunemagazine.org/2016/05/dont-let-these-racism-smears-stick/
202
20
In the last year, there has been mounting and heavily publicised criticism against the Labour Party of anti-Semitism or failure to sanction anti Semitism within the party. It is, however clear, with only the slightest scrutiny, that any allegation of anti-Semitism is wholly without foundation. The Labour Party does not have a problem with anti-Semitism. But it is a sad truth that when any person or organisation is accused of anti-Semitism, it sticks. The allegation may be without evidence, unproven or, indeed as we find here, politically motivated. But once the label is there, it stays – like a festering sore.

That is not to say that there is not a problem with anti-Semitism in this country. There is and it is widespread and endemic. And like racism and Islamophobia, it crosses all political and social divides; discrimination is present, it has always been present, and it pollutes the very fabric of our society.

So why then has the suggestion of anti-Semitism in the Labour Party been allowed to linger, mature, and even be encouraged by some? The answer can be found in events long before Jeremy Corbyn became leader. It started on the October 13 2014, the day Parliament voted overwhelmingly in favour of recognising Palestine as an independent state. The vote was tabled by a Labour MP and supported by then leader Ed Miliband. This was not a whipped vote but was the largest turnout for a non-whipped backbench vote in the history of Parliament. The vote was highly symbolic and widely reported in the media, indicating that the UK, under Labour, was ready to recognise the independent state of Palestine. The vote had followed condemnation by Ed of the disproportionate bombing of residential areas in Gaza by Israeli forces the preceding summer.

Ed Miliband was viciously attacked in the mainstream media for this principled stance and a number of Labour MPs who had a long track record of supporting Israel criticised his position, complaining that he was putting off Jewish voters. The actress Maureen Lipman, a long-time defender of Israel, was extremely vocal, saying that if Ed was ever to become Prime Minister she would leave the country, writing that “come election day, I shall give my vote to another party. Almost any other party. Until my party is once more led by mensches.”

The Conservatives, of course, did their best during the last general election campaign to exploit Ed’s stance within the Jewish communities of Hendon and Golders Green, producing leaflets attacking Ed’s support for Palestine, leaflets that were only to be delivered to Jewish households. Although, more than any other party, they have a long history of controversy when it comes to anti-Semitism, dating back to the turn of the last century. In Richard Griffiths’ 1980 book Fellow Travellers of the Right, there are a number of examples, like Conservative MP Archibald Maule Ramsay who headed an explicitly anti-Semitic organisation called the Right Club whose aims were to “oppose and expose the activities of organised Jewry”’, including alleged Jewish control of the Conservative Party. Another example is the Tory ministerial aide Aidan Burley MP, who in 2011 had to resign over a Nazi-themed stag party he had organised in France. The party later found that this was “stupid and offensive” but not racist or anti-Semitic. In 2013, Patrick Mercer MP was filmed making offensive remarks about an Israeli soldier, saying: “Who the fuck are you, you know? ‘Well I’m a soldier.’ Are you? You don’t look like a soldier to me. You look like a bloody Jew.” And only last month, Abdul Zaman a senior member of a Conservative Party group in Bradford was suspended over comments one Labour MP has branded “anti-Semitic”.

Following the election, prominent Labour Party activists like Luke Akehurst wrote that one reason we had lost the election was because Ed had “comprehensively alienated many Jewish voters” with his decision to support the recognition of Palestine. Luke is the full time director of We Believe in Israel, the grassroots campaign group of the British Israeli Communications Organisation (BICOM), and so it would fit into his agenda to partially blame the election defeat on Ed’s support of Palestinian recognition. Another similar article was planted in the Spectator by Robert Philpot, the former director of Progress and currently the acting director of Labour Friends of Israel.

It is a complete fallacy. Ed’s stand had no effect on the outcome of the election. In a wide-ranging paper titled a Guide to the 2015 General Election in the UK – Where Jewish Votes May Matter Most, published by the Institute for Jewish Policy Research, an analysis of constituencies where there was a sizable Jewish community concluded that: “As a group, Jews have little influence over the final results”. In short, there is no “Jewish vote’”, no Jewish bloc, not all Jews think the same and, like Muslims, Catholics and Sikhs, they are individuals, who have different priorities and different needs. To think otherwise is both patronising and naive.

Following the election of Jeremy Corbyn last summer, there immediately began a sustained, aggressive attack on his position on Palestine. Anyone who knows Jeremy knows that he is a great humanitarian and has dedicated his life to helping the vulnerable, the poor and, where he can, attempting to resolve conflict. He supports many causes both domestically and internationally and has spent his life attending meetings, sharing platforms, and speaking at events. Some of these causes are not popular but ­Jeremy likes to push boundaries: he is fearless in challenging prejudices and exposing hypocrisy. And most of all he is an ­absolutely committed socialist and scares the living daylights out of the Tories.

But in today’s politics, if you want to lead, if you want to get to the top of that pole, you can’t be outspoken, you can’t defend unpopular causes and you cannot, whatever you do, ever ­criticise Israel.

So after Jeremy’s election, there was an unholy alliance between Conservative Central Office and a small group of Labour MPs. Working closely with the Daily Telegraph and the political blogger Guido Fawkes, they began scrutinising every meeting he had attended, every platform he had shared, and the Twitter feeds and Facebook posts of the 400,000 new members. It is not surprising that they found one or two anti-Semitic bad eggs. This is not to diminish the seriousness of anti-Semitisim, but to say that the Labour Party has a problem with anti-Semitism is simply not true.

In recent weeks, we have had a further development with the saga of Oxford University Labour Club (OULC). This, ­however, exposed a more sinister approach to anti-Semitism – one that attempts to conflate it with anti-Zionism. This conflation has always been on the fringes of the Israel-Palestine debate but it was always dismissed and never formed part of the mainstream discourse on the Middle East. The success of the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement, and Israel’s complete loss of integrity and respect following the two campaigns in Gaza leaving thousands of Palestinian dead, has left those supporting Israel under real pressure to be more aggressive in their defence of the country.

This all began when the vice-chair of the OULC, Alex Chalmers, resigned publically on Facebook after he lost a vote within the club over their support for Israeli Apartheid Week. This is an event which takes place every year across more than 150 universities and cities. The statement of resignation claims that some within the club have used words like ‘”zio” and that the club has “some kind of problem with Jews”. Put aside that we only have Alex Chalmers’ word for this and that there is no other evidence, or that he never complained at the time (after over a year of this word being mentioned in his presence) and he only came forward after he had lost a vote. His main complaint seems to be that anti-Zionism is the new anti-Semitism. There have been a plethora of articles since then supporting Alex Chalmers, not least from the ex-Chief Rabbi Jonathan Sacks, who in an article in Newsweek titled Anti-Zionism Is The New Anti-Semitism said that: “Today it is human rights. It is why Israel… is regularly accused of the five crimes against human rights: racism, apartheid, crimes against humanity, ethnic cleansing and attempted genocide. This is the blood libel of our time.”

And here Jonathan Sacks, evoking the most heinous of

anti-Semitic tropes, gets to the root of the issue. This has never been about anti-Semitism. This has always been about protecting Israel.

As with many other countries, the UK has a long history of anti-Semitism and racism, and we must always keep up our guard to ensure that when it is found, it is challenged and dealt with firmly. But we must take care not to allow our fear and rightly understandable anger of anti-Semitism to be exploited by those who want to use that fear and anger to prevent any criticism of Israel. Labour does not have an anti-Semitism problem. What it has is a principled leader who is head and shoulders above many who have come before him and who is willing to challenge all on their human rights record no matter who they are.

Mark McDonald is a human rights barrister at Mansfield Chambers and founder of Labour Friends of Palestine and the Middle East