http://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/laxity-slow-reaction-led-to-high-crpf-casualties-in-pampore/article8789710.ece
130
13
Preliminary investigation into the attack on a CRPF bus in Pampore, which left eight personnel dead and 22 injured, suggests that laxity on the part of the security men on the bus, poor response time from the road opening party (ROP) and surprise element of the militant strike led to high casualties.

Sources said despite police warning of a possible militant attack on the 78-km-long National Highway 1, connecting Srinagar to Qazigund in South Kashmir, most jawans were not wearing bullet-proof vests when the two-member fidayeen squad attacked the CRPF convoy near Pampore’s Frestbal area last week.

‘Retaliatory fire poor’

The jawans of the CRPF’s 161 Battalion, who were proceeding to Awantipora after a shooting practice, were mainly hit in the upper part of the body, which reflects the absence of bullet-proof vests. The retaliatory fire from within the bus was also “poor”, the sources said.

The initial probe has also found that the ROP and the Quick Response Team did not react quickly. Sources said the ROP and a semi-bullet-proof mobile bunker, which neutralised the two fidayeen, were more than 250 metres away from the bus, part of a four-vehicle convoy. This is against the standard operating procedure (SOP).

It is also evident from the amateur video of the attack that the militants succeeded in firing relentlessly at the bus from close range for more than two minutes.

A CRPF official admitted that the force did “not have enough bullet-proof jackets” but countered the suggestion that the personnel in the bus failed to respond adequately.

“We have given the entire sequence of the attack to the Home Ministry and they are satisfied with it,” the official said.

Senior CRPF officers told The Hindu that it was for the first time that militants were neutralised immediately, unlike in the past when the gunmen either fled from the spot or occupied a building.

Past attacks

The officers cited the example of June 24, 2013 attack near Hyderpora highway in which 11 Armymen were killed and 15 injured even as the militants succeeded in fleeing the spot.

Similarly in February this year, militants, after attacking a CRPF convoy, took control of a building in Pampore.

In June, three BSF jawans were killed and nine injured in another ambush on the highway in Bijbehara and the militants managed to escape.

Security agencies have failed to track the white Alto, driven by a local former militant, who accompanied the two militants.

“We have to further sharpen and quicken our response so that terrorists are neutralised immediately,” Inspector-General, CRPF’s Kashmir Range, Nalin Prabhat told The Hindu .

Meanwhile, more mobile bunkers have been set up at all vulnerable sites in South Kashmir following fears of fresh attacks.

A three-member team of the Ministry of Home Affairs, which arrived in Kashmir on Tuesday, has started assessing possible lapses during the Pampore attack and is reviewing the security situation ahead of the Amarnath yatra.

The MHA team, comprising Secretary, Border Management, Susheel Kumar; Special Secretary, Internal Security, Mahesh Kumar Singla and Joint Secretary, Kashmir Affairs, Gyanesh Kumar, is meeting the injured jawans and discussing the spurt in infiltration bids in the Valley.

Despite prior warning of a militant attack, most jawans were not wearing

bullet-proof vests