https://www.yahoo.com/news/atlantic-politics-policy-daily-tale-213044686.html
138
13
Today in 5 Lines

President Obama said that anti-immigration attitudes in America have been “exploited by demagogues” during a summit of North American leaders in Canada. The U.S. Senate passed a procedural vote to offer aid to Puerto Rico, likely helping the territory stave off a historic default. Primary voters in Utah and Colorado elected two transgender Democratic candidates to run for Congress for the first time in U.S. history. North Carolina lawmakers are reportedly considering revising the state’s controversial “bathroom bill.” And Turkey suggested ISIS was behind Tuesday’s attack at the Istanbul airport, which killed at least 41 people.

Today on The Atlantic

Donald Trump, Born Again: Evangelicals have largely found the businessman-turned-politician to be brash and offensive. But American evangelical culture loves nothing more than to see a wayward sinner born again, a trope that could help him find more success. (Lincoln Mullen)

The Case for Restorative Justice: Criminal prosecutions have largely failed to stop police brutality in America. Perhaps it’s time for an alternative method: direct mediation between victims of violence and police perpetrators. (Vann R. Newkirk II)

Two Years After Hobby Lobby: The U.S. Supreme Court has refused to hear a case brought by the owners of a Washington pharmacy chain who claim that providing emergency contraception violates their religious beliefs. This decision—or lack thereof—shows how much the high court has changed since 2014. (Emma Green)

Follow stories throughout the day with our Politics & Policy portal.

Snapshot

President Barack Obama, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Mexican President Enrique Pena Neito, shake hands during a group photo at the North America Leaders' Summit at the National Gallery of Canada. Pablo Martinez Monsivais / AP More





What We’re Reading

Haters Gonna Hate: Donald Trump built his campaign on hate—hating the “establishment,” the media, Mexicans, Muslims, Hillary Clinton—but he also represents the disenfranchised, those who feel they are being wronged. (Wesley Morris, The New York Times Magazine)

Recommended: Culture Is Replacing Class as the Key Political Divide

Not Your Average Convention: This year’s Republican National Convention is sure to be different than any other. Who will show up? How will they vote? And will there be enough “showbiz” to keep people from falling asleep? (Ed O’Keefe and David Weigel, The Washington Post)

Grappling With A Changing America: After decades of social and economic upheaval—and the crumbling of the American middle class—both parties will be forced to redefine themselves, for better or for worse. (Harold Meyerson, The American Prospect)

At Least Trump Is Honest?: Both Bernie Sanders and Donald Trump advocate trade policies that would benefit American workers at the expense of the global poor. The key difference: Trump acknowledges this fact, while Sanders pretends that his plan would help everybody. (Jonathan Chait, New York Magazine)

‘Never Been A Time Like This’: Groups like the U.S. Council of Muslim Organizations, Islamic Circle of North America, and the Arab American Institute have set out to register one million new voters this year in response to the divisive anti-Muslim comments made by Donald Trump. (Lauren Fox, Talking Points Memo)

Visualized

Nate Silver’s Prediction: The famed pollster and head of FiveThirtyEight has crunched the numbers: Hillary Clinton has an 80 percent chance of winning the general election. Check out these graphics to see why. (Nate Silver)

Millionaire Migration: How often do rich Americans move away from a state in order to avoid taxes? Not very often, according to a new study published in the American Sociological Review. (Richard Florida, CityLab)

Question of the Week

Last week, Britain voted to break with the European Union—a decision known as “Brexit.” If the United States were to leave the United Nations, as Sarah Palin suggested, what would that exit’s nickname be?

Send your answers to hello@theatlantic.com or tweet us @TheAtlPolitics, and our favorites will be featured in Friday’s Politics & Policy Daily.

-Written by Elaine Godfrey (@elainejgodfrey)

Read more from The Atlantic:

This article was originally published on The Atlantic.