http://jpupdates.com/2016/01/05/charlie-hebdo-editor-no-one-questions-when-jews-are-killed/
202
20
This week marks one year since the Charlie Hebdo massacre in Paris by jihadi gunmen who killed 13 journalists including 2 cops and the murder of four Jews two days later at the Hyper Cacher Kosher market.

To commemorate the event the editor, Gerard Biard, said that while the killings launched a global debate on the role of religion and free speech, no one bothered to explain to the world why the attackers went after the kosher supermarket.

“We are so used to Jews being killed because they are Jewish,” Gėrard Biard wrote. “This is an error, and not just on a human level. Because it’s the executioner who decides who is Jewish. Nov. 13 was the proof of that. On that day, the executioner showed us that he had decided we were all Jewish.”

President Barack Obama attributed the death of the four Jews as ” a bunch of folks who were randomly shot”

“People understand there is no future for Jews in Europe,” Belgian Chief Rabbi Avraham Gigi recently stated, citing a growing sense of fear among his coreligionists.

Today Jewish sites in France are under armed guard making Jews feel as if they are targets but welcoming the protection nevertheless. French President Francoise Hollande is scheduled to pay a visit to Hyper Cacher as an homage to the four people killed there which has revived concerns of anti-Semitism within the largest Jewish community in Europe.

In January of 2014 a group of protesters marched through Paris singing the French national anthem while chanting, “Jews, France is not for you”. Later that summer during the conflict with Gaza several Jewish locations including a synagogue came under attack by anti-Semitic mobs. Prime Minister Netanyhu exhorted French Jews to come to Israel, “Israel is a home for you” he said at last years public demonstrations after the attack. In 2015 7900 French citizens made aliyah to Israel.

A hero emerged at the Hyper Cacher market when a 25 year old undocumented worker from Mali, a Muslim, saved the lives of several shoppers who were in the store that day by hiding them in the basement refrigerator and then turned off the electricity. After escaping himself he helped the police by diagraming the store and informed them of the location of those in hiding.