http://www.laht.com/article.asp?ArticleId=2403225&CategoryId=23558
202
20
HOME | Central America

Six Men Murdered in Central Honduras



TEGUCIGALPA – At least six men were murdered in what may have been a drug-related massacre in Comayagua, a city in central Honduras, Security Secretariat spokesman Leonel Sauceda said on Sunday.



The men were gunned down between 1:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m. inside a house located next to the road that leads to El Rosario in Comayagua’s La Tejera district, Sauceda said.



Liquor bottles and six bullet casings were found at the crime scene, the Security Secretariat spokesman said.



The massacre may be related to drug dealing because Hilda Euceda, the mother of two of the victims, was arrested last year on drug charges and is serving time at the women’s prison near Tegucigalpa, Sauceda said.



The stepfather of the two murdered brothers is also serving time at the Comayagua prison farm after being “arrested for the same reason two or three years ago,” Sauceda said.



The victims have been identified as Jose Ernesto Ramos, 42; brothers Nelson Vegas and Santos Cecilio Reyes; Orlando Josue Orellana, Marvin Josue Montoya and Rigoberto Hernandez.



Vegas, Reyes and the other three victims ranged in age from 19 to 24, Sauceda said.



An average of 14 people per day are murdered in Honduras, according to officials, who blame much of the rise in the crime rate on drug traffickers and other organized crime groups.



TEGUCIGALPA – At least six men were murdered in what may have been a drug-related massacre in Comayagua, a city in central Honduras, Security Secretariat spokesman Leonel Sauceda said on Sunday.The men were gunned down between 1:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m. inside a house located next to the road that leads to El Rosario in Comayagua’s La Tejera district, Sauceda said.Liquor bottles and six bullet casings were found at the crime scene, the Security Secretariat spokesman said.The massacre may be related to drug dealing because Hilda Euceda, the mother of two of the victims, was arrested last year on drug charges and is serving time at the women’s prison near Tegucigalpa, Sauceda said.The stepfather of the two murdered brothers is also serving time at the Comayagua prison farm after being “arrested for the same reason two or three years ago,” Sauceda said.The victims have been identified as Jose Ernesto Ramos, 42; brothers Nelson Vegas and Santos Cecilio Reyes; Orlando Josue Orellana, Marvin Josue Montoya and Rigoberto Hernandez.Vegas, Reyes and the other three victims ranged in age from 19 to 24, Sauceda said.An average of 14 people per day are murdered in Honduras, according to officials, who blame much of the rise in the crime rate on drug traffickers and other organized crime groups. Enter your email address to subscribe to free headlines (and great cartoons so every email has a happy ending!) from the Latin American Herald Tribune:

