http://www.mpacuk.org/why-only-paris/
201
20
Once again we saw blowback in a European city because of unjust foreign policies*.

This time it was Paris. Over 100 people were killed and many more injured by ISIS.

Of course, the world mourned the death of innocent civilians but Muslims were outraged.

They weren’t outraged because people were mourning the deaths of Parisians, but rather because they couldn’t understand why their dead were not remembered in the same way.

Just look at some of the things that happened after the horrific Paris attacks:

Now consider Beirut in Lebanon.

Literally a day before the Paris attacks, ISIS killed and injured hundreds of in Lebanon but where were the worldwide vigils?

Where was the ‘Safety Check’ feature for Beirut?

Which buildings where lit up around the world for Lebanon? (Apparently the Sydney Opera House was but this image turned out to be a fake).

What is it about Paris that means that those deaths are worth remembering more than Beirut?

Forget Beirut for a second, what about other massacres in Kenya, Palestine, Syria and so many others?

Why were these not worth remembering?

Are the victims of the wrong religion, colour or nation which means that their blood is worth less?

What makes it worse is that world leaders were queuing up to say that they were in solidarity with France.

World leaders such as:

Barack Obama who conducts drone strikes that kill Muslim children

David Cameron who has welcomed extremists & despots such as Israel’s Netanyahu, India’s Modi & Egypt’s Sisi

World leaders who have helped make the problem worse in the Muslim world.

World leaders – who are currently considering more airstrikes that will inevitably kill more civilians – are saying that they are against the killing of civilians by ISIS because it goes against “our values”.

Who do they think they’re kidding?

This selective solidarity is incredibly racist and belittles the thousands of Muslims who die – mainly because of what our war-mongering world leaders do.

MPACUK says #NoToSelectiveOutrage

Our people’s blood is not cheap.

It is worth something.

We are worth something.

*ISIS claimed responsibility for the attacks. They said it was a response to French airstrikes.

*ISIS, as Obama admitted in an interview, are a “direct outgrowth of Al-Qaida in Iraq which grew out of our invasion”.

*A message to the Islamophobes – if you can’t understand the difference between explaining and justifying these horrific attacks then we can’t help you – not our fault that you can’t read.