http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Azerbaijan:-leave-no-stone-unturned-to-achieve-peace-38741.html
202
20


» 10/02/2016, 20.01



AZERBAIJAN - VATICAN Azerbaijan: leave no stone unturned to achieve peace



"We must exclude attitudes and approaches which instrumentalize their own convictions, their own identity or the name of God in order to legitimize subjugation and supremacy." " I am confident that, with the help of God, and the good will of those involved, the Caucasus will be a place where, through dialogue and negotiation, disputes and differences will be resolved and overcome". Baku (AsiaNews) - Promoting harmony within a nation - with the affirmation of positive coexistence between different ideas or religious beliefs - and between nations, "opening up new avenues that lead to lasting agreements and peace”, this was exhortation that the Pope addressed in his speech in front of Azerbaijan's political world, authorities and accredited diplomats, in the "Heydar Aliyev" Center Baku. The "leave no stone unturned to achieve peace" pronounced today by Francis, has a particularly strong meaning, given that since 1992 there is an ongoing conflict, which at times becomes outright war between Azerbaijan and Armenia. The conflict is over the Nagorno Karabakh region, with a majority Armenian population, which under Stalin was given to Azerbaijan, but is currently tied to Armenia. The same Pope's presence is therefore linked to political and diplomatic reasons, as well as religious. And the latter also to relations with Muslims, as this is a country with an overwhelming Islamic majority - over 80 percent Francis visit to the nation started in the early afternoon with a courtesy visit to President Ilham Heydar Aliyev, which was followed by the ceremonial homage to the Memorial for the ' independence and, at 17, local time, the meeting at the "Heydar Aliyev" Center with the authorities, including the head of state. "I have come to this country” he said “ full of admiration for the intricacy and richness of your culture, fruit of the contribution of so many peoples who in the course of history have inhabited these lands. They have given life to a fabric of experiences, values and distinctive features which characterize contemporary society and are reflected in the prosperity of the modern Azeri state. This coming 18 October Azerbaijan will celebrate twenty-five years of independence. This occasion affords the possibility of taking comprehensive stock of these decades, of the progress achieved and of the challenges which the country is facing. The road travelled thus far shows clearly the significant efforts undertaken to strengthen institutions and to promote the economic and civic growth of the nation. It is a path which requires constant attention towards all, especially the weakest, and one which is possible thanks to a society which recognizes the benefits of multiculturalism and of the necessary complementarity of cultures. This in turn leads to mutual collaboration and respect among the various components of civil society and among the adherents of various religious confessions. This common effort to harmonize differences is of particular importance in our time, as it shows that it is possible to bear witness to one’s own ideas and worldview without abusing the rights of others who have different ideas and perspectives. Every ethnic or ideological identity, as with every authentic religious path, must exclude attitudes and approaches which instrumentalize their own convictions, their own identity or the name of God in order to legitimize subjugation and supremacy. It is my sincere hope that Azerbaijan may continue along the way of cooperation between different cultures and religious confessions. May harmony and peaceful coexistence be evermore a source of vitality to the public and civil life of the country, in its multiplicity of expressions, ensuring to all men and women the possibility of offering their own contribution to the common good. The world, unfortunately, is experiencing the tragedy of many conflicts fuelled by intolerance, which in turn is fomented by violent ideologies and by the effective denial of the rights of the weakest. In order to effectively oppose these dangerous deviations, we need to promote a culture of peace, which is fostered by an untiring willingness for dialogue and by the awareness that there is no reasonable alternative to patiently and assiduously searching for shared solutions by means of committed and sustained negotiations. Just as within a country’s borders it is necessary to promote harmony among the various sectors, so too between states it is necessary to persevere wisely and courageously on the path which leads to authentic progress and the freedom of peoples, opening up new avenues that lead to lasting agreements and peace. In this way, peoples will be spared grave suffering and painful wounds, which are difficult to heal. Mindful also of this country, I wish to express my heartfelt closeness to those who have had to leave their land and to the many people who suffer the effects of bloody conflicts. I hope that the international community may be able to offer unfailingly its indispensable help. At the same time, in order to initiate a new phase for stable peace in the region, I invite everyone to grasp every opportunity to reach a satisfactory solution. I am confident that, with the help of God, and the good will of those involved, the Caucasus will be a place where, through dialogue and negotiation, disputes and differences will be resolved and overcome. By such means, this area – “a gateway between East and West”, in the beautiful image used by Saint John Paul II when he visited your country (cf. Address at the Arrival Ceremony, 22 May 2002) – will also become a gateway open to peace, and an example to which we can look to solve old and new conflicts. The Catholic Church, even though it has a small presence in the country, is truly present in the civic and social life of Azerbaijan; it participates in its joys and shares the challenges of confronting its difficulties. The juridical recognition, made possible by the ratification of the international agreement with the Holy See in 2011, has furthermore offered a stable regulatory framework for the life of the Catholic community in Azerbaijan. I am moreover particularly pleased with the cordial relations enjoyed by the Catholic, Muslim, Orthodox and Jewish communities. It is my hope that the signs of friendship and cooperation may continue to increase. These good relations assume great significance for peaceful coexistence and for peace in the world, and they demonstrate that among the followers of different religious confessions cordial relations, respect and cooperation for the good of all are possible. The attachment to authentic religious values is utterly incompatible with the attempt to violently impose on others one’s own vision, using God’s holy name as “armour”. Rather, may faith in God be a source and inspiration of mutual understanding and respect, and of reciprocal help, in pursuit of the common good of society. May God bless Azerbaijan with harmony, peace and prosperity". e-mail this to a friend Printable version







e-mail this to a friend : Azerbaijan: leave no stone unturned to achieve peace Middle East South Asia Central Asia North Asia South East Asia East Asia South West Asia Afghanistan Armenia Azerbaijan Bahrain Bangladesh Bhutan Brunei Myanmar Cambodia China East Timor Georgia India Indonesia Iran Iraq Israel Japan Kazakhstan North Korea South Korea Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Lebanon Macau Malaysia Mongolia Nepal Oman Pakistan Philippines Qatar Russia Saudi Arabia Singapore Sri Lanka Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Thailand Turkey Turkmenistan United Arab Emirates Uzbekistan Vietnam Yemen Palestine Hong Kong Jordan Europe Nord America Sud America Africa

"We must exclude attitudes and approaches which instrumentalize their own convictions, their own identity or the name of God in order to legitimize subjugation and supremacy." " I am confident that, with the help of God, and the good will of those involved, the Caucasus will be a place where, through dialogue and negotiation, disputes and differences will be resolved and overcome".



: : (*) : : (*) : (*)



: (*)



































See also

06/04/2016 14:32:00 ARMENIA – AZERBAIJAN

Armenian bishop urges prayers for Christians in Karabakh as well as peace; IS Jihadis go from Syria to Azerbaijan

Whilst the ceasefire is holding, the war that restarted a few days ago marks a shift in the balance of power in the Caucasus. Recent killings and beheadings show a pattern similar to that of IS Jihadis. Azeri forces appear to include Jihadis and Turkish Grey Wolves. Russia is concerned about the war and IS fighters on its doorstep. The US, EU, and UN are absent from the picture.



03/04/2016 12:26:00 ARMENIA-AZERBAIJAN

Fighting on the border of Nagorno-Karabakh. Putin calls for immediate cease-fire

Violent clashes and attacks on Armenian villages have caused civilian casualties. The victims include children. Nagorno-Karabakh, born from the dissolution of the USSR, like Azerbaijan, claims autonomy. In the past there have been massacres of Christian Armenians by Muslim Azerbaijanis. The area is rich in oil. Turkey and Russia vie for influence in the region.







02/10/2016 19:37:00 AZERBAIJAN - VATICAN

Pope in Azerbaijan: in the night of conflict, may religions be a "dawn of peace"

Pope Francis’ final appointment in Azerbaijan dedicated to inter faith dialogue. "God can not be invoked for partisan interests and selfish ends, nor be used to justify any form of fundamentalism, imperialism or colonialism".



02/10/2016 10:59:00 AZERBAIJAN - VATICAN

Pope in Azerbaijan: Service is a way of life

At mass celebrated in Baku, Francis recalls the persecution under the USSR. The Pope is “not wasting time” travelling so many kilometers to meet a few hundred faithful, but "imitates the Holy Spirit" who in the Upper Room gave courage to a small community.



05/11/2013 AZERBAIJAN - VATICAN

Caucasus' Muslims invite Pope Francis to Azerbaijan

The head of the Caucasus Islamic Department forwarded the invitation through Cardinal Ravasi, on an official visit to Baku to organize an exhibition of Azerbaijani art in the Vatican Museums: " We are very happy at his election, we would like to meet him in person". For his part , Cardinal invites the Sheikh to the Vatican.







