http://www.burmatimes.net/suu-kyi-islamophobia-vs-democracy/
202
20
Suu Kyi’s poisonous silent policy for genuine Democracy for all diverse ethnic nationalities through Islmaophobia and Burmanized Democracy

Burma Times: By Ibrahim Shah

Let’s see the view of the ever most renowned Burmese Lady, Suu Kyi, the mentor of the newly elected government led by National League for Democracy[NLD], regarding Muslims and the Rohingya while almost all the neo-Nazi inspired ethnocentric Burmese Buddhists abominate Muslims in the blindly fear of the disappearance of Buddhism in Myanmar.

After the Rohingya massacre led by world brutalist president Thein Sein occurred in June 2012, the long persecution of Burmese brutal military against Rohingya was globally introduced through media.

People of all classes visited to the Rohingya ghettoes inside Arakan where the internally displaced Rohingya people were inhumanely kept in the way that none will be able to imagine without physically arrival there.

It is very deplorable that not only Suu Kyi but also any NLD members did not pay any visit to Rohingya ghettoes.

Based on the increasing inhumane policies of Burmese authorities and cruelties of Rakhine people against Rohingya, the issue of the Rohingya people was flooded across the universal Island, the earth. When Suu Kyi was interview by international media, she repeatedly told that not only Rohingya but also Buddhists face difficulties in her country.

During the interview, BBC’s Mishal Husain reiterated Suu Kyi to condemn anti-Islamic sentiment and the wave of mob-led massacres of Muslims in Myanmar, and she repeatedly refuse.

However, she diplomatically replied: “I think there are many, many Buddhists who have also left the country for various reasons.This is a result of our sufferings under a dictatorial regime.”

While dishonesty of Suu Kyi over Rohingya people was evidently exposed after the conclusion of the interview conducted by Hussain, Suu Kyi angrily murmured: No one told me that I was going to be interviewed by a Muslim.

Here it was exposed that Suu Kyi rather endorses Islamophobia than genuine Democracy which will certainly paralyze the true democracy of Myanmar.

Both diplomatically and politically, international community has moral responsibility to take necessary steps through strong analysis to the inner policy of the mentor of the National League for Democracy [NLD] Aung San Suu Kyi whether she endorses Islamophobia or Democracy because the silent policy of Suu Kyi will further approve the remained genocidal policies of Burmese brutal military against Rohingya.