http://manilastandardtoday.com/opinion/columns/back-channel-by-alejandro-del-rosario/202427/it-s-indonesia-s-turn.html
202
20
After the Philippines, it’s Indonesia’s turn to be bullied by China. The Chinese also drove the Vietnamese out of the Paracels, defeating them in a naval battle. Kuala Lumpur also reported sighting 100 boats of Chinese registry in Malaysian waters.

Last week, Indonesian coast guard apprehended a Chinese trawler caught illegally fishing in Indonesia’s 200-mile exclusive economic zone. While towing the trawler, a Chinese gunboat rammed the Indon coast guard allowing the fishing boat to escape. But the Chinese fishermen already on board the Indonesian coast guard ship were detained. Beijing is demanding the release of the Chinese poachers.

The incident in international waters claimed by China is similar to the Scarborough Shoal (Panatag) incident near Bajo de Masinloc off Zambales in April 2012 when the Philippine Coast Guard was prevented by Chinese patrol boats from boarding a Chinese ship loaded with fish and other marine life hauled from Philippine waters. While the Philippines has backed off from confronting the Chinese and allowed them to consolidate their claim to almost the entire South China Sea, Indonesia is holding its ground in detaining the Chinese poachers, Jakarta’s foreign ministry summoned the Chinese ambassador to explain the intrusion on Indonesian waters. Unable to get a satisfactory response from Beijing, Jakarta is now thinking of following Manila’s lead in filing an arbitral case with the Hague international court.

Tension at Scarborough Shoal escalated anew last week when Filipino fishermen threw firebombs at a Chinese patrol boat which rammed them. Deprived of their livelihood by Chinese patrol boats shooing them away from traditional fishing ground, the Filipinos also brandished knives at their oppressors. People fight back when pushed too far by bullies.

China should be careful with this latest incident involving its violation of another country’s territorial waters. Indonesia is not a country to trifle with. The world’s most populous Muslim nation of 255 million carried out ethnic Chinese cleansing in the Great Purge of 1965-1966 under President Sukarno who preceded Suharto’s rule. The Chinese communist PKI was blamed for a failed coup attempt which led to its being banned in Indonesia. During this tumultuous time, Chinese merchants’ stores were torched and the estimate of ethnic Chinese killed ranged from 500,000 to almost 2 million.

A historical chapter

The last vestige of the Cold War came to end with the historical visit to Cuba of US President Barack Obama last week. The American president’s visit was preceded by the restoration of diplomatic relations last year between the two countries and the end of a decades long US economic embargo of Cuba. Normalization of relations was also helped along by the replacement of ailing Cuban revolutionary leader Fidel Castro by his brother Raul.

In his speech in the capital Havana before the Cuban people, Obama admitted the US economic embargo was outdated and a burden to Cuba. The end of Cuba’s 61-year isolation also signals the return of American business investments which is expected to perk up its economy.

US-Cuban relation was marred by the botched Bay of Pigs invasion launched by Cuban exiles and American mercenaries. The last kink to be ironed out in the new relationship is whether Obama will now shut down the US military base in Guantanamo.

“Si, se puede (Yes, it’s possible),” Obama intoned as he expressed his optimism on solving the problems between their two countries and the bright future ahead.

Europe’s new war

The retaliation was swift and deadly. After Belgian police captured one of the terrorists who carried out the simultaneous attack in Paris last November, jihadist suicide bombers killed 31 people in Brussels’ Zaventem International Airport and in a Metro subway station in Maalbeek. Also injured in the coordinated attack claimed by Islamic State terrorists were more than 240 people. Aside from the suspension of international flights to and from Brussels, the operation of the Eurostar cross channel railway connecting London and Paris was also suspended.

Belgium is home to thousands of Muslim migrants from the Middle East and Africa, particularly Morocco, Algeria and the former Belgian Congo. Known as the crossroads of Europe, Brussels is less than three hours’ drive to Paris. This is a different country from the one I know when I was posted as press attaché with the Philippine Embassy in Brussels in the early 90s. Over the years, Belgium became a refuge and base of operations for terrorists. One of the Madrid train bombers in 2004 that killed 101 people lived in Molenbeek, a Brussels suburb. The attack on Belgium is seen as an attack on the whole of Europe. The European Union is based in Brussels and so is the North Atlantic Treaty Organization whose three members—US, UK and France—have been carrying out air strikes against ISIS strongholds in Syria and Iraq.

On July 7, 2005, Islamist terrorists exploded three bombs in succession on board London’s underground trains and stations. A fourth bomb also exploded in a street bus in central London, killing 52 people in the synchronized attacks.

It’s difficult to make sense of the horror. One thing is clear; there is a war between the forces of evil who have no value for human life and those who want to preserve a civilized world order. Because this is a war without borders and the enemy in their midst, Europe is fighting an insane ideology in its own house.