http://www.tribune.net.ph/headlines/du30-wants-to-go-rogue-leave-un
131
13
DIGONG TO FORM OWN INT’L BODY

Since the United Nations (UN) would not stop pestering him on human rights, President Duterte said he would prefer that the Philippines leaves the multinational association setting the stage for the Philippines becoming a rogue state.

Duterte threatened yesterday to withdraw the Philippines from the UN as he launched another profanity-laced tirade against the organization for criticizing his bloody war on crime.

Duterte said he may even look to set up another international organization.

“I would invite everybody. I would invite maybe China, the African (nations),” he said.

More than 1,500 people have been killed since Duterte took office and immediately began his law-and-order crackdown, according to police statistics, triggering fierce criticism from the UN and rights groups.

Duterte, a lawyer famous for an acid tongue who has repeatedly told the UN not to interfere, yesterday stepped up his rhetoric.

“Maybe we’ll just have to decide to separate from the United Nations. If you are that disrespectful, son of a whore, then I will just leave you,” Duterte said in a press conference in his home city of Davao that started about 1 a.m.

The UN’s special rapporteur on summary executions, Agnes Callamard, last week said Duterte’s promise of immunity and bounties to security forces who killed drug suspects violated international law.

UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon in June also strongly criticized Duterte, who during the election campaign promised to kill 100,000 people and dump so many bodies in Manila Bay that the fish would grow fat from feeding on them.

“I unequivocally condemn his apparent endorsement of extrajudicial killings, which is illegal and a breach of fundamental rights and freedoms,” Ban said.

Duterte frequently peppers his public comments with swear words, he has also called Pope Francis and the US ambassador to Manila sons of whores, and days after his election win used typical language to criticize the UN.

“Fuck you, UN, you can’t even solve the Middle East carnage... couldn’t even lift a finger in Africa,” he said then.

Last month Duterte said he may not ratify the country’s commitments to a historic UN climate change pact agreed by his predecessor last year.

Yesterday morning Duterte said the UN had done nothing for the Philippines, ignoring its poverty reduction programs and enormous help following typhoons and other natural disasters, as he continued to curse it.

“I don’t give a shit to them. They are the ones interfering,” he said.

On the day he was sworn into office, Duterte called for people in slums to kill neighbors whom they believed were drug addicts, repeating a campaign line.

His aides have since said such comments are merely hyperbole and not meant to be taken literally.

However nearly 900 people have been murdered by unknown people during Duterte’s term, with police killing another 665 alleged drug suspects, according to Philippine National Police chief Ronald “Bato” de la Rosa.

The killings represent a massive increase on crime deaths before Duterte took office.

Duterte has repeatedly insisted police have only killed in self defence, while maintaining the other deaths are due to drug syndicates killing each other.

‘I’ll teach UN to count’

In a press conference at the ‘Malacañang of the South’ in Panacan, Davao City Duterte directed his outburst at the UN: “You’re complaining that there is no process. Okay, you guys, you law experts of the United Nations, come here, come here and face me and make the accusations and I will show you the statistics and I will hold your finger and teach you how to count,” he said.

The President said that he’s willing to dialog with UN observers to explain to them the effects of his war on the narcotics industry yet his spokesman Ernest Abella said a UN fact finding mission that Callamard offered to lead to look into the summary killings in the country is not welcome and will be considered “unnecessary meddling” into internal affairs.

“I will explain extra-judicial killings, for international release, if you want,” he said, reiterating his policy instructions to state security forces to liquidate resistant suspects while restating that he assumes responsibility for the outcome of his war on drugs.

“My orders are for the police to go out and hunt for criminals. I tell them to arrest these criminals if they surrender peacefully, but kill them if they put up a violent struggle. I assume full responsibility for what happens,” Duterte stressed.

Sticking to his campaign promise of swift justice, Duterte said that shooting resisting offenders is better than the tedious process in courts.

“My job as President is to protect law-abiding citizens. I was never tasked by any law to protect criminals. I say this because 16 million people voted for me and I have a large margin between me and the next candidate,” he said.

“The President therefore finds the pronouncements from certain bodies as unwelcome meddling in national matters. The Philippines has not extended any invitation to anybody, nor the UN to look into its national affairs. We are capable of our own internal dialogue,” Abella had said.

Abella added that foreigners criticizing Duterte’s policy that seemingly encourages killing more criminals and drugs suspects are accordingly ignorant of the Philippines’ distinct culture – whatever that is.

“The liberal Western values being imposed upon an Asian nation that places premium on common good is both insensitive and displays a lack of appreciation for the diversity of global culture,” Abella claimed.

Last Friday, Callamard responded to Chief Presidential Legal Counsel Salvador Panelo’s dare to visit the Philippines to take a look at the effects of the Philippine government’s policies against drug offenders.

“Invitation to investigate welcomed. Ready to ‘see for myself,” Callamard said through Twitter last Friday.

Abella, however, described Panelo’s statement as unofficial and that the Palace never invited anybody from the UN to send a team to the country.

“In an unofficial exchange between Legal Counsel (Panelo) and UN mouthpieces, the latter assumed they were offered an invitation to come and investigate the spike in drug related deaths being labeled as extra-judicial, or a license to kill freely,” Abella said.

Another joke?

Malacañang said Duterte’s threat of leaving the UN will have no effect on the country’s foreign relations.

Presidential Communications Secretary Martin Andanar said despite failing to classify the President’s statement as a serious policy statement or a mere joke, it will not cause any harm on the Philippines’ image before the community of nations.

“Everytime the President said something, they say its a policy-statement but I do not see anything contradicting our foreign policy,” Andanar said on radio.

Andanar said the country remains a “team-member” in the community of nations.

“Now, we have our multilateral agreements with other countries, we have our bilateral agreements, we still [respect] our contracts with other nations, our allies. So, so far I don’t see anything being violated,” he said.

Earlier yesterday, President Duterte said that the UN is not helpful to the Philippines anyway.

“When were you here the last time? Never. Except to criticize... When have you done a good deed to my country? We are contributing money,” Duterte said, addressing the UN in a news conference early morning in Davao City.

The President seems to be uninformed that the UN donated $193 million to the victims of super typhoon Yolanda back in November 2013.