http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/BRICSs-Jaipur-declaration-urges-international-FIs-to-support-sustainable-development/articleshow/53798495.cms
130
13
JAIPUR: Concluding a two-day discussion on sustainable development goals (SDGs) here on Sunday, the BRICS nations' women parliamentarian forum adopted the Jaipur declaration calling upon international financial institutions to "support and facilitate financing for development on favourable terms" to developing and least developed countries.It further called upon the international FIs to help such countries gain easier access to new and affordable technologies for capacity-building in accordance with the UN convention on climate change and the Paris Agreement. The Jaipur declaration stated the BRICS nations were committed to society's progress without endangering the capacity of coming generations.Women parliamentarians from Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa (BRICS) attended the two-day meeting that was inaugurated by Lok Sabha speaker Sumitra Mahajan at the state assembly on Saturday. At the valedictory session held at a city hotel on Sunday, Mahajan said dialogue between parliamentarians was important to achieve SDGs."Development must be inclusive, if it is to be equitable, sustainable and effective. Mainstreaming equity is vital for ameliorating socio-economic conditions of people within the framework of sustainable development," Mahajan said, adding that active involvement of women parliamentarians in the development process would result in meaningful and inclusive growth."As women, we have a natural instinct towards development and progress. We are seen as agents of change. It is widely recognised that if there is money in a woman's hand, there is money in her house; if the woman's hand is strong, her family is strong; and if there is happiness on a woman's face, there is happiness in her home," said Mahajan.The Lok Sabha speaker said that climate change affected humanity as a whole, but the developing countries had their own challenges. The BRICS Jaipur declaration mentioned the need to address climate change and protection of ecological system and forest as well as food security, expeditious parliamentary approval of SDG related legislations and adequate budgetary resources.Addressing the valedictory session, chief minister Vasundhara Raje said, "Women have huge potential. They are not competitors of men but are complementary on the path of development. Walking together both can bring change." Raje added that women's roles should not be confined to sectors like tourism or women and child development but it was time for them to get into more challenging sectors like finance and defence.Raje said Rajasthan was the first state in the country to empower women financially. "Our government introduced Bhamashah scheme under which a woman is counted as the head of her family and all direct benefit transfers of various schemes reach such women's bank accounts without fear of wastage, leakage and graft," Raje said.