http://www.4-traders.com/news/Sage-International-Major-Transaction-in-relation-to-the-Subscription-of-Share-in-the-Target-Compan--22934351/
138
13
Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited and The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited take no responsibility for the contents of this announcement, make no representation as to its accuracy or completeness and expressly disclaim any liability whatsoever for any loss howsoever arising from or in reliance upon the whole or any part of the contents of this announcement.

仁智國際集團有限公司

(incorporated in the Cayman Islands and continued in Bermuda with limited liability)

On 19 August 2016 (after trading hours of the Stock Exchange), the Subscriber, a direct wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, as subscriber, and the Target Company, as the issuer, entered into the Subscription Agreement, pursuant to which the Subscriber has conditionally agreed to subscribe for, and the Target Company has conditionally agreed to allot and issue, the Subscription Shares, representing 70% of the total number of shares of the Target Company in issue upon completion of the Subscription, at the aggregate Subscription Price of HK$7,000,000.

The Target Company is principally engaged in the business of production of drama and musical performance (including musicals and live shows), artist management and music intellectual property rights management, and the ancillary marketing matters.

As at the date of this announcement, the Target Company is wholly owned by Keith Productions. Upon completion of the Subscription, the Target Company shall be owned as to 70% by the Subscriber and as to 30% by Keith Productions.

One of the conditions precedent to the completion of the Subscription is that the Subscriber, Keith Productions and the Target Company shall enter into the Shareholders' Agreement setting out the shareholdings, management, activities and other matters concerning the operations of the Target Company with effect upon completion of the Subscription, pursuant to which the Subscriber shall make available the Shareholder's Loan to the Target Company for financing its operating costs.

As one of the applicable percentage ratios for the Subscription Price and the Shareholder's Loan by the Company (through the Subscriber) exceeds 25% but is less than 100%, the Subscription Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereunder constitutes a major transaction of the Company under Chapter 19 of the GEM Listing Rules which is subject to the reporting, announcement and shareholders' approval requirements under the GEM Listings Rules.

To the best of the Directors' knowledge, information and belief having made all reasonable enquires, no Shareholder has a material interests in the Subscription and accordingly, no Shareholder is required to abstain from voting if the Company was to convene a general meeting for the approval of the Subscription Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereunder.

A circular containing, among other things, information relating to the Subscription Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereunder is expected to be despatched to the Shareholders within 15 Business Days from the date of this announcement, i.e. on or before 9 September 2016.

The Board is pleased to announce that on 19 August 2016 (after the trading hours of the Stock Exchange), the Subscriber, a direct wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, and the Target Company entered into the Subscription Agreement, pursuant to which the Subscriber has conditionally agreed to subscribe for, and the Target Company has conditionally agreed to allot and issue the Subscription Shares, representing 70% of the total number of shares of the Target Company in issue upon completion of the Subscription, at the aggregate Subscription Price of HK$7,000,000.

Principal terms of the Subscription Agreement are set out below:

19 August 2016 (after trading hours of the Stock Exchange)

Black Sesame Entertainment Co. Limited, the Target Company, as issuer and Winning Spotlight Limited, the Subscriber, a direct wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, as subscriber

As at the date of this announcement, the Target Company is wholly owned by Keith Productions. To the best of the Directors' knowledge, information and belief, having made all reasonable enquiries, each of the Target Company and its existing ultimate beneficial owner(s) is an Independent Third Party.

As at the date of this announcement, the Target Company has an issued share capital of HK$1 and 1 share in issue and is wholly owned by Keith Productions.

Pursuant to the Subscription Agreement, the Subscriber has conditionally agreed to subscribe for, and the Target Company has conditionally agreed to allot and issue the Subscription Shares, representing 70% of the total number of shares of the Target Company in issue upon completion of the Subscription.

The Subscription Shares, when allotted, issued and fully paid, shall rank pari passu in all respects among themselves and with all the shares of the Target Company in issue on the date of the allotment and issue of the Subscription Shares.

As one of the conditions precedent to the completion of the Subscription, the Service Agreement shall be entered into between the Target Company and Mr. Chan, pursuant to which Mr. Chan shall be employed by the Target Company to serve as its director for the term of three years from the date thereof, in consideration of which and as part of the remuneration package, the Target Company shall, among others, allot and issue 2 new shares, credited as fully paid, to Keith Productions at the direction of Mr. Chan. The said 2 new shares, which together with the existing 1 share held by Keith Productions, shall represent

(i) 100% of the total number of shares of the Target Company in issue immediately prior to completion of the Subscription, and (ii) 30% of the total number of shares of the Target Company in issue upon completion of the Subscription.

Based on a preliminary valuation prepared by Greater China Appraisal Limited, an independent qualified professional valuer, the fair value of the service-based intangible asset in relation to the services provided by Mr. Chan to the Target Company is approximately HK$3 million as at 15 August 2016.

Upon completion of the Subscription, the Target Company shall be owned as to 70% by the Subscriber and as to 30% by Keith Productions.

The aggregate Subscription Price for the Subscription Shares shall be HK$7,000,000, and will be settled by cash on completion. It is expected that the Subscription Price will be funded by internal resources of the Group.

The Subscription Price and the Shareholder's Loan were determined on normal commercial terms and after arm's length negotiations among the parties to the Subscription Agreement and the Shareholder's Agreement having taken into consideration of various factors, including (i) the expected business needs of the Target Company; (ii) the fair value of the service-based intangible asset in relation to the services provided by Mr. Chan to the Target Company of approximately HK$3 million as at 15 August 2016; and

(iii) the reasons for and benefits of the Subscription as mentioned in the section headed "Reasons for and benefits of the Subscription" in this announcement.