http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/boy-6-dies-injuries-after-8959431
202
20
A 6-year-old boy wounded in a schoolyard shooting has died a day after a teenage suspect was charged with murdering his own father as well as wounding the pupil, a teacher and another student.

Jacob Hall, was shot on Wednesday at Townville Elementary School in Townville, South Carolina after the 14-year-old suspect is alleged to have crashed his pickup truck into a fence around the school and opened fire.

"Unfortunately he's lost the battle, at 12:56pm today" said Anderson County Coroner Greg Shore. He will have his autopsy on Sunday.

REUTERS Emergency vehicles drive down Osbourne Road to a home where Jeffrey DeWitt Osborne was shot by his teenage son

Townville FD Firefighter Jamie Brock



Jacob had been on life support after a bullet ripped his femoral artery, causing blood loss that led to major brain injury, his family has said.

Before his death the suspect was charged in 10th Judicial Circuit court on Friday with one count of murder and three counts of attempted murder. The hearing was behind closed doors because he is a juvenile.

Townville School District Teacher Meghan Hollingsworth

Authorities say the suspect shot and killed his father, Jeffrey Osborne, 47, as the man watched television at their home about 2 miles (3 km) from the school.

The teenager then drove to the school where he shot Jacob, another 6-year-old boy and teacher Meghan Hollingsworth, police have said.

Authorities said they did not know of any link between the shooter, who was home-schooled, and the victims.

AP Korrie Bennett hugs Heather Bailey after recovering their children following a shooting at Townville Elementary

A volunteer firefighter averted a potential school massacre by tackling the gunman.

He reportedly shouted "I hate my life!" and fired shots into the air before turning on two young pupils and a teacher.

Volunteer firefighter Jamie Brock was one of the first on the scene and managed to wrestle the boy to the ground until reinforcements arrived.

Mr Brock has been a member of Townville's Volunteer Fire Service for more than 30 years.

His heroic actions in the playground behind Townville Elementary School allowed a teacher time to get students inside the building.

US schools have taken added security precautions since 2012 when a gunman shot dead 20 children and six educators at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut.