http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3753793/Islamist-wings-prisons-turn-mini-Guantanamos.html
130
13
Locking up extremist prisoners in special ‘jihadi wings’ will be akin to opening up a British Guantanamo Bay, ministers have been warned.

Isolating hate preachers and Islamist terror offenders in jails would also give them ‘credibility’ and place prison officers at greater risk of being maimed or murdered.

Steve Gillan, general secretary of the Prison Officers Association, issued the warning after Justice Secretary Liz Truss yesterday unveiled plans for specialist units in some maximum security prisons.

It is understood that hate preacher Anjem Choudary will be held in the first special isolation wing for Muslim extremists at top-security HMP Frankland in Durham

The aim is to prevent extremists from converting other prisoners to their warped views.

A report by former prison governor Ian Acheson said terrorists and extremists have been able to spread their poison behind bars for too long without intervention. He said political correctness meant staff were too frightened to step in for fear of being branded racist.

But the shift towards terrorist-only units could raise fears of extremists being able to run entire blocks or wings – a problem at the notorious Maze prison in Northern Ireland during the Troubles.

Mr Gillan said: ‘We are totally opposed to this. We know the H blocks in Northern Ireland didn’t work and this will be the same.

‘There is a real danger that you further politicise people and give them credibility they do not deserve. Before you know it you have got a British Guantanamo Bay.

‘People will see these special units as giving them status and credibility – they will be doing things to get into them. We are a big enough country to have a proper dispersal system.’

He also called for Friday prayers for Muslims to be carried out in their cells instead of communally. He said: ‘Friday prayers are putting immense pressure on the already pressed prison service.

‘In France and Germany they do Friday prayers from their cells. This report says we should do the same and there is no reason for the Government not to accept this recommendation.’

It is understood that hate preacher Anjem Choudary will be held in the first special isolation wing for Muslim extremists at top-security HMP Frankland in Durham.

Choudary, 49, was convicted of terror offences last week. He will be one of up to ten Islamists held in a pilot scheme to stop them radicalising other inmates, the Mail has been told. The firebrand cleric, who was found guilty of supporting Islamic State, will be sentenced next month.

HMP Frankland has been chosen because it has experience of dealing with the most dangerous terrorists.

Kamel Bourgass, who murdered Detective Constable Stephen Oake in 2003, was kept in segregation at the prison amid concerns he was bullying other Muslim inmates and was a bad influence on other prisoners.

The scale of the problem is underlined by the increasing number of Muslim prisoners in the system. The figure has soared from 3,681 in 1997 to a record high of 12,662 last September.

Last year there were also 1,229 Muslim inmates in the eight maximum security prisons in England and Wales – almost a quarter of their 5,314 capacity.

David Wilson a former prison governor who is now professor of criminology at Birmingham City University, said: ‘The prison service will have to limit opportunities for radicalisation to take place but it can be done.