http://nuclear-news.net/2016/01/15/
203
20
Major disaster: radioactive material constantly being emitted from LA gas blowout Experts: Multiple types of radioactive material constantly being emitted from LA gas blowout — “I’d be running like hell” — “We are getting higher and higher levels…it’s accumulating” — “Poisons spreading through entire San Fernando Valley” home to 2 million people — “Thousands getting sick… it really is a major, major disaster” (AUDIO) http://enenews.com/experts-multiple-types-radioactive-material-being-continuously-emitted-la-gas-blowout-accumulating-getting-higher-higher-levels-poisons-all-moving-down-spreading-entire-san-fernando-valley-th?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+ENENews+%28Energy+News%29Follow up to: Radioactive material reportedly now being released from massive gas blowout in LA — Byproduct of Uranium — Expert: “A lot” has been detected… Very dangerous (VIDEO)

Interviews from Nuclear Hotseat hosted by Libbe HaLevy, Jan 13, 2016 (emphasis added): Kevin Kamps, Beyond Nuclear’s nuclear waste watchdog (8:30 in): “Another important thing that is very significant is that the radon is continually resupplied… Radon is going to beconstantly generated by the uranium contained in the methane… So really you’ve got achronic constant supply of hazardous radon gas coming out of this breach in California.” Cindy Folkers, Beyond Nuclear‘s expert on ionizing radiation (16:00 in): “I’m absolutely astounded that they are not measuring for radon that I know of… I can’t believe that they’re not measuring for radon… [Radon] also decays to a number of what are called radon progeny which includes a number of short-lived radioactive substances, some of which are lead and polonium. Both of those can be very biologically damaging… There is question as to the kind of doses that they would be getting of radon, but it still is really very much a worry… I feel like — doing the research that I’ve done — that we are not getting the full story of what’s happening there.” Richard Mathews, candidate for California State Senate who studied physics & astronomy at CALTECH (32:00 in): “People are really concerned about this, people are seriously getting sick… Thousands of people are getting sick from this — and it really is a major, major disaster… Methane floats away and spreads around the whole world… All the contaminants that are in with the methane are heavier than the air and that includes… benzene and toluene, hydrogen sulfide — all of those are heavier than air — they tend to stay close to the ground and move downhill. This is happening in the hills above the San Fernando Valley [home to nearly 2 million people] and so the poisons are all moving down into the San Fernando Valley and spreading through the entire San Fernando Valley… As the radon and other substances flow around, they are accumulating. They are not easily blown out of the valley, and we are getting higher and higher levels… The lead is going to be around for decades… The initiallead that you get is radioactive. This will be a continuing problem… It could spread through the entire San Fernando Valley… The damage that the radon does stays in your body… andshows up as cancer a decade after, maybe even 80 years later. So we really need to follow through.” Terry Lodge, attorney (50:00 in): “You have a massive release, probably, of radon going on — and there may actually also be radium particulate… I’d be taking very rapid steps [if I lived in the area], I’d be running like hell. And the reason is, I suspect that there’s little by way of emergency anticipation — what could possibly go wrong? We have this vast underground storage facility… There are not radiation monitors… the problem is sort of the Three Mile Island problem… the radiation emission went way off the meter… there were no redundant rings, there was no monitoring certain distances outside the plant boundary. You don’t even have that at Porter [Ranch]… They don’t know how much radon is being dispersed… [Radon] can be concentrated by rainfall, concentrated by humidity, and inversions… There needs to be some type of soil sampling… air, and all that… So the problem is that radon is around in the Porter Ranch situation — nobody’s prepared for it. They’re not talking about it now — this may months into the crisis.” Full interviews available here

Republican presidential candidates clueless on the danger of nuclear arms race Let’s Try to Avoid Another Nuclear Arms Race, Shall We? FOREIGN POLICY.COM BY TOM Z. COLLINA JANUARY 15, 2016 The Republican presidential debates have covered a range of national security issues, from China, to Islamist terrorism, to the defense budget. But only recently have the candidates begun talking about a key issue: the future of the U.S. nuclear arsenal. That’s the good news. The bad news is how shockingly little they know about the subject. At the debate on Jan. 14, Ben Carson said he was concerned about adversaries “obtaining nuclear weapons that they can explode in our exoatmosphere and destroy our electric grid.” Rick Santorum mentionedthis too, as did Ted Cruz last year. This is a fringe issue, more the stuff of action movies than real life. Hardly prime-time debate material. But when it comes to the dangers we actually face here in the real world, the candidates don’t fare much better. At the Dec. 15 debate, front-runner Donald Trump tripped over a question about the importance (and budget difficulties) involved in modernizing America’s nuclear triad. In response, he rambled that “nuclear is just the power, the devastation is very important to me,” a statement that plainly showed he hadn’t bothered to do his homework on the issue. In a Jan. 11 interview, Jeb Bush shot back, saying that if Trump wants to be the next president, “the dude ought to try to figure out what the nuclear triad is.” None of the GOP candidates seem prepared to confront the complexities of our nuclear arsenal. Even worse, they fail to grasp the meat of the issue. Continue reading →

US nuclear corporation salivates at thought of selling reactors to India Ahead Of PM Modi’s Trip To US, Hopes For A Major Nuclear Reactor Deal, NDTV All India | Reuters January 15, 2016 NEW DELHI: Toshiba Corp’s Westinghouse Electric hopes to clinch a deal to build six nuclear reactors in India by end-March, its CEO said, in time for a possible visit by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Washington to attend a global nuclear summit. A Westinghouse team is already in India to negotiate the deal, Chief Executive Daniel Roderick told news agency Reuters, but talks are likely to go down to the wire, as the crucial issue of nuclear liability insurance for suppliers remains unresolved. The aim, however, was to make a “commercially significant announcement” during PM Modi’s expected US visit in March and sign a final contract later in the year, Mr Roderick said. A US diplomat said the United States had invited PM Modi to the March 31-April 1 Nuclear Security Summit and that Washington was thinking of turning the trip into a full-fledged official visit, which would give the Indian leader a similar reception as Chinese President Xi Jinping. The Westinghouse contract would give a big boost to India’s $150 billion nuclear power programme……. The Westinghouse deal would be the first nuclear commercial power project since the United States and India first struck an agreement to cooperate in the civil nuclear arena a decade ago. India has given two sites to US companies – Westinghouse and a nuclear venture between General Electric Co and Hitachi – to build six reactors each. http://www.ndtv.com/india-news/ahead-of-pm-modis-trip-to-us-hopes-for-a-major-nuclear-reactor-deal-1266211

Obama funding “new nuclear” President Obama’s 2016 budget includes more than $900 million for the DOE to support U.S. civilian nuclear energy. The DOE also has $12.5 billion in remaining loan guarantee authority for advanced nuclear projects through Title 17. DOE Funds Advanced Pebble-Bed and Molten-Salt Nuclear Reactor Development The DOE pushes nuclear research, deployments and some regulatory reform.GreenTech Media by Eric Wesoff January 15, 2016 Last week, small modular reactor startup Terrestrial Energy closed $8 millionin funding for its proprietary Integral Molten Salt Reactor design. Earlier this week, a bipartisan bill won approval by the U.S. House of Representative’s Committee on Science, Space and Technology to drive R&D funding for nuclear power in the U.S. According to The Hill, “The bill directs the Department of Energy to prioritize nuclear energy research that utilizes private sector funding.” The legislation encourages private firms to partner with the national labs to study nuclear reactor technology, and calls for the DOE to “complete a research reactor within the next 10 years.” And this morning, the DOE announced the selection of two companies, X-energy and Southern Company, “to further develop advanced nuclear reactor designs.” These awards originate from the Gateway for Accelerated Innovation in Nuclear(GAIN) program. DOE’s initial funding will be $6 million for each project, with both firms providing cost-share. The potential “multi-year cost-share value for this research is up to $80 million,” and it is aiming for a demonstration project in about 20 years, according to the DOE. The advanced nuclear power projects receiving awards are: Continue reading →

Bernie Sanders opposes the one $trillion nuclear weapons plan Bernie says there are higher priorities than spending a trillion dollars on nukes, Governing Under The Influence, Rebecca Aguilar on January 14, 2016 “………Bernie Sanders opposes the one trillion nuclear weapons plan and addresses wasteful spending in the Department of Defense. …….I asked Senator Sanders, “Do you oppose the trillion dollar nuclear arms proposal that the Obama administration is trying to put forth?” And he replied with “Yes, I do”. Senator Sanders continued on with his answer, “Obviously we need a strong defense. But the truth is there is enormous waste within the 600 billion dollar a year Defense Department. It turns out that the Department of Defense is the only agency that cannot sustain an independent audit. So I think there is a lot of waste, a lot of cost overrun. We are right now maintaining, I think I won’t swear to you, 5,000 nuclear weapons.” Bernie was spot on, when he then said, “I don’t know what the world looks like at the end of 2,000 nuclear weapons going off. I don’t know that you’ll need another 3,000.” He then goes on to say, “You know what we could do for education with 30 billion dollars a year? You know what we could do for nutrition? You know what we could do with affordable housing? There is a lot higher priorities than maintaining that type of nuclear arsenal.” The crowd agreed with the Senator, and we applauded his answer…….http://gui.afsc.org/birddog/bernie-says-there-are-higher-priorities-spending-trillion-dollars-nukes

Green Party MP voices dangers of nuclear waste dump at Plymouth, questions Trident plan Green party representative voices outrage at nuclear waste in Plymouth http://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/Green-party-voices-outrage-nuclear-waste-Plymouth/story-28535265-detail/story.html By Plymouth Herald January 15, 2016 A GREEN party MEP has spoken out about her outrage regarding nuclear waste in Plymouth. Molly Scott Cato, the Green Party MEP for the region believes that local jobs linked to Trident submarines could be replaced by better, more socially useful employment and is urging local authorities and unions to back a process of “industrial conversion”. The controversial question of whether to commission a new generation of nuclear-armed Trident submarines, at an estimated cost of £100bn will be discussed by the UK Parliament later this year. Molly said: “I am deeply concerned about the health and safety hazards this nuclear waste dump poses to so many of my constituents. “This danger has been allowed to fester and grow for over twenty years in the heart of a major city. “This is totally unacceptable. “The dangers posed by nuclear waste are just one of the reasons that Greens have always been united in opposition to the replacement of the UK’s nuclear-armed Trident submarines. “We also believe that nuclear weapons are immoral, unusable and a totally unacceptable use of public money.” The government backs replacement, while Labour appear divided and are currently reviewing their policy on the issue

Ontario’s refurbishment of nuclear power plants is reckless Nuclear renovation plan reckless http://www.thestar.com/opinion/letters_to_the_editors/2016/01/15/nuclear-renovation-plan-reckless.html Jan 15 2016 Re: OPG to begin $12.8M nuclear plant renovation, Jan 12 OPG to begin $12.8M nuclear plant renovation, Jan. 12 Ontario’s decision to proceed with the refurbishment of the Bruce and Darlington nuclear power plants and to extend the life of the already long-past-due-for-closure Pickering plant, is stunning in its recklessness, its failure to engage in a rigourous, public examination of alternatives and lack of transparency about the risks and costs to the public. The decisions will lock Ontario’s electricity system into decades of dependency on an expensive, risky and aging technology. This at a time when we are witnessing the most significant revolutions in electricity generation, transmission, distribution and storage technologies seen since the first emergence of electricity grids more than a century ago. The future of sustainable energy systems lies in flexible, resilient, distributed generation systems, grounded on efficiency, renewable energy and smart grids, not high-risk megaprojects to rescue a technology whose time has passed. Mark S. Winfield, Associate Professor, Faculty of Environmental Studies, York University If only your headline were correct. Sadly, the true amount, $12.8 billion, is probably only the beginning of the money pit the Liberals are wading into once more‎. What happened to our new economic cooperation with Quebec? For a couple of billion tops, we could improve the transmission capabilities through eastern Ontario and buy their clean, renewable (actual) hydro power‎ at less than the cost of nuclear generation. ‎Terry Kushnier, Scarborough

Testimony regarding Dominion Virginia Power’s nuclear plan – it’s unreasonable Virginia State Corporation Commission eFiling CASE Document Cover Sheet ……Document Description Summary Direct Testimony & Exhibits of D. Scott Norwood, filed on behalf of the Office of the Attorney General’s Division of Consumer Counsel ……Document Description Summary Direct Testimony & Exhibits of D. Scott Norwood, filed on behalf of the Office of the Attorney General’s Division of Consumer Counsel DIRECT TESTIMONY OF SCOTT NORWOOD ON BEHALF OF OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL DIVISION OF CONSUMER COUNSEL SEPTEMBER 15, 2015 SUMMARY OF TESTIMONY J, D. Scott Norwood The purpose of my testimony is to present my evaluation and recommendations regarding Dominion Virginia Power’s (“DVP” or “Company”) 2015 IRP filing. The focus of my testimony is on the Company’s proposed resource plans that include the continued development of the North Anna Unit 3 nuclear generating facility (“NA3”), in view of the requirement in § 56-599 that the Commission shall make a determination as to whether an IRP is reasonable and in the public interest. Dominion has not estimated the average annual retail rate impacts that would result from construction of NA3. However, assuming that the NA3 project is completed without further cost increases, I estimate that the first year revenue requirement for the project (including related replacement fuel cost savings) would be almost $2.4 billion. This would result in an average rate increase of approximately 25.7% over current Virginia retail residential rates. The analysis presented in DVP’s 2015 IRP Report does not demonstrate that the Company’s plan to continue development of NA3 is reasonable in consideration of the increasing costs ofNA3 relative to other resource options identified in DVP’s IRP analyses. In fact, theNA3 project is more costly than the Least Cost Plan (“LCP”) in all 19 scenarios evaluated by DVP in the 2015 IRP, and is not the lowest cost option for complying with the EPA’s Clean Power Plan. DVP has not completed analysis of other issues of concern regarding the NA3 project that were ordered by the Commission in the Company’s 2013 IRP proceeding; however, the analyses that have been completed generally indicate that there are much lower cost alternatives to NA3. Moreover, the forecasted capital cost of NA3 is far higher than the ElA’s current generic cost estimate for nuclear generating units. For all of these reasons, DVP’s 2015 IRP strategy to continue development of NA3 does not appear to be reasonable. …… http://www.scc.virginia.gov/docketsearch/DOCS/34bx01!.PDF

China to develop small floating nuclear reactors Chinese oil, nuclear companies to develop floating atomic platforms for offshore drilling http://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2016/01/15/business/chinese-oil-nuclear-companies-develop-floating-atomic-platforms-offshore-drilling/#.VplMlZp97Gh TOKYO/HONG KONG – China National Offshore Oil Corp. and China General Nuclear Power Corp. will work together to develop nuclear technology for use in sea-based oil fields, the country’s biggest offshore explorer announced on Friday. The state-owned companies signed the strategic cooperation framework on Jan. 14, China National Offshore said on its official Weibo account on Friday. CGN, China’s biggest nuclear power operator, announced on Jan. 12 that the government had approved construction of a demonstration floating nuclear reactor that could be used for offshore oil production. “This partnership will push forward the organic integration of the offshore oil industry and the nuclear power industry,” China National Offshore said in the statement. The National Development and Reform Commission, China’s economic planner, has urged CGN to speed up the pace of development of the floating reactor, known as the ACPR50S, the company said in its Jan. 12 statement. Construction of the demonstration reactor is expected to start next year, with it powering up by 2020, according to CGN.

Fukushima cleanup will need underwater robots Underwater robots to assist with Fukushima clean-up http://eandt.theiet.org/news/2016/jan/underwater-robots-fukushima.cfm 15 January 2016 By Tereza Pultarova Radiation-sensing amphibious robots will help speed up decommissioning of the damaged Fukushima nuclear power plant. Currently under development by an international research team, the technology will finally provide means for assessing radiation in the submerged parts of the reactor. “Our research will focus on developing a remote-operated submersible vehicle with detection instruments that will be able to identify the radioactive sources,” said Malcolm Joyce, Professor of Nuclear Engineering at Lancaster University, who leads the team. “This capability does not currently exist and it would enable clean-up of the stricken Fukushima reactors to continue.” Focusing particularly on dangerous neutron and gamma radiation, the robots will be able to assess how stable the situation is in the submerged parts of the nuclear power plant. For safe decommissioning, debris as well as fuel needs to be removed from the reactor, but the high risk is that some accidental reaction could be triggered by the manipulation. “A key challenge with the remote-operated vehicle will be to design it so that it can fit through the small access ports typically available in nuclear facilities,” explained Barry Lennox, Professor of Applied Control at the University of Manchester. “These ports can be less than 100 mm in diameter, which will create significant challenges.” Scientists from universities in Lancaster and Manchester are working on the project, which is funded by the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council, together with partners from Japan and private company Hybrid Instruments. The remotely controlled vehicle that will come out of the project could also be used in decommissioning of undamaged nuclear sites, such as the Sellafield Reprocessing facility in Cumbria, or it could serve the oil and gas industry in assessing natural deposits of radioactive materials. The reactors of the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant, damaged during the 9.0-magnitude earthquake in 2011, had to be flooded with sea water to cool them down. “A key task is the removal of the nuclear fuel from the reactors,” Joyce said. “Once this is removed and stored safely elsewhere, radiation levels fall significantly making the plant much more safer, and cheaper, to decommission.”

Mouse-hole in Secondary Containment at Hope Creek Nuclear Power Station? Does it Matter? Mining Awareness + Did a Mouse Make a Hole in the Secondary Containment of Hope Creek Nuclear Power Station? “1 inch diameter hole was discovered in the secondary containment wall,…”

Who done it? Does this mouse look guilty? Like the culprit?



“At 1358 [EDT] on July 28, 2015, a 1 inch diameter hole was discovered in the secondary containment wall, between the Reactor Building and the Auxiliary Building, causing the Secondary Containment to become inoperable under Technical Specification 3.6.5.1… The hole was sealed at 1600 and technical specification 3.6.5.1 was exited…

The hole was discovered by plant personnel that were walking past the wall. Due to the discovery of the hole, the plant is performing an extent of condition inspection. ” (See entire text below). The secondary containment is fairly thick. Could the concrete be that rotten?



Maybe the mouse had a little bitty tunnel boring machine? Or did someone… View original post 1,523 more words

4.2 Magnitude Quake Measured Near Japan Nuclear Research Facilities-Nuclear Reactor Mining Awareness + http://earthquake.usgs.gov/earthquakes/eventpage/us10004elu#general_summary http://earthquake.usgs.gov/earthquakes/eventpage/us10004elu#impact_dyfi “Tōkai (東海村 Tōkai-mura?) is a village located in Naka District, Ibaraki|Naka District]], Ibaraki Prefecture, in the northern Kantō region of Japan. As of September 2015, the village had an estimated population of 37,885 and a population density of 997 persons per km². Its total area was 37.98 km². The Japan Atomic Energy Agency along with other organizations currently operate a number of nuclear technology research facilities in the town. In particular, Tōkai Nuclear Power Plant is located in Tōkai.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tōkai,_Ibaraki “Tokai-mura Facilities

JAEA has several facilities located in Tōkai, Ibaraki, which was the first center in Japan for nuclear research. Currently, JAEA has expanded to several other sites in the Ibaraki Prefecture as well as all of Japan. Tokai R&D Center (東海研究開発センター)

Nuclear Chemistry Research Center

Nuclear Fuel Cycle Engineering Laboratories

The Japan Proton Accelerator Research Complex (大強度陽子加速器計画 or J-PARC for short) houses many particle research… View original post 2 more words