http://article.wn.com/view/2016/05/09/Israel_Will_Nazism_comparisons_trigger_soul_searching/
203
20
" If there's something that frightens me about Holocaust remembrance, it's the recognition of the revolting processes that occurred in Europe - and particularly in Germany - 70, 80 and 90 years ago, and finding signs of them here among us today in 2016. "

There is no bigger taboo in Israel than comparing the state of Israel to Nazi Germany . And yet that is precisely what Yair Golan , the deputy head

In a reflection of the deep divisions plaguing Israel, a top general set off a controversy Thursday after appearing to liken the atmosphere in Israel to that of Nazi-era...

There is no bigger taboo in Israel than comparing the state of Israel to Nazi Germany. And yet that is precisely what Yair Golan, the deputy head of the Israeli military,...

The tenure of Margaret Sullivan as Public Editor of the New York Times (NYT) ended on April 16, 2016, with her column “Public Editor No. 5 Is Yesterday’s News.” This...

By Jonathan Cook It was an assessment no one expected from the deputy head of the Israeli military. In his Holocaust Day speech last week, Yair Golan compared current...

Related News

Top General’s Holocaust comments irk Netanyahu Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has publicly rebuked a top General for comments appearing to liken the atmosphere in Israel to that of Nazi-era Germany. Benjamin Netanyahu said that Major General Yair Golan, the military’s Deputy Chief of Staff, erred when speaking on the country’s annual Holocaust Memorial Day. Major General... The Hindu





Israeli military chief backtracks from 1930s Germany comparison IDF deputy chief says he did not intend to compare Israel to Nazi Germany in Holocaust memorial day speech citing ‘nauseating trends’ The deputy head of the Israeli military has been forced to backtrack after appearing to compare some attitudes in present-day Israel to “nauseating trends” in 1930s... The Guardian





On Holocaust Remembrance Day, Israel Army Deputy Chief Warns Israeli Society Exhibiting Similarities to 1930s Germany As calls for the ethnic cleansing of non-Jews become commonplace, so do the Nazi comparisons, both at home and abroad. Across the world and especially in the West, it is widely considered to be highly offensive to suggest that there are similarities between the State of Israel and Nazi Germany, the racist regime responsible for the murder of millions of Jews. But after seven... Alternet





Tel Aviv Diary: Coalition Talk Leaves Israelis Bemused Today was one of the wildest days in the history of Israeli politics. It started with the political turmoil generated by talks of including the Labor Party in the government. By the afternoon, those talks had been suspended. After a successful meeting between Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman, it was announced that a committee had... Newsweek



