https://wtpotus.wordpress.com/2016/01/28/identitarian-movement-in-europe/
203
20
A response to the threat of Islamization and the loss of cultural identity is brewing among the young people of Europe. The “identitarian movement” began in France in 2002. Subtitles in the video above explain the viewpoint of the German youth who are increasingly concerned about losing their ethnic identities, because of far-left ideology with its suicidal political correctness.

Below is a rough translation of the text posted along with the You Tube video:

Young people come together to reclaim their identity! #ZukunftEuropa One generation, one destiny, one last chance! This is not just a motto, but the every day goal of a movement that sees itself as a living covenant and as a community of destiny! We are a movement of young people who resist liberal leftist indoctrination! We can no longer remain silent! We see how our values ​​and our culture are in decline, as our home and our traditions are increasingly destroyed, and how freedom gives way to political correctness. We are united by destiny to be the last generation that can turn things around again! What unites us is the self-knowledge to be the phalanx, which must take action against the self-destructive, ever-growing multicultural ideology that drives mass immigration and Islamization, and thus the ultimate disappearance of the thousands-of-years-old family of nations called Europe, and their cultural traditions. We stand together in our quest to protect our homeland, to restore the freedom and sovereignty of our country, and to fight for the preservation of our ethno-cultural identity! But with idealism alone this fight cannot be won! Courage, dedication, and sacrifice will not suffice …

Following comes a pitch for monetary support of their movement.

Not surprisingly, the usual suspects rush to label these young people as “far right,” although similar movements or groups, such as Black Lives Matter or La Raza, are never called far right (or even far left).

Indeed, here in the USA, “diversity” is celebrated, although it does seem that certain ethnic groups are not allowed (by political correctness) to be proud of or to seek to preserve their own cultural identities. Like Europe, however, we must be ever on guard against Islamization.

This story explains the recent growth of the identitarian movement across Europe:

Originally the youth wing of the far-right anti-immigrant policy, it has since developed into its own entity and spread throughout Europe. Young people in Greece, Austria, Germany, and the UK have joined in protesting the leftward march of the European Union, particularly in the face of EU policies regarding the acceptance of and catering to migrant populations.

We here in the USA are accustomed to a multi-cultural, multi-ethnic, racially diverse nation, although still (so far, by the grace of God) united under one system of government (a Constitutional Republic) with one system of justice.

Europe, however, is comprised of many smaller nations. Each country has traditionally been relatively homogeneous–each typically with its own culture, ethnic identity, racial identity, and even language.

Is it wrong, racist, xenophobic, or Islamophobic for these young people to wish to preserve their traditions, their cultures, their countries? Is it fair to label them as bigots or compare them to Nazis? NO!

What next for the European Union?

There was a time when the entire world decried ethnic cleansing.

Whether it’s done outright by force, as in Nazi Germany, or incrementally by stealth (or civilizational) jihad, the result is the same.

Is it wrong for these European youths to take a stand against the ethnic cleansing of their own identities?

Imagine a world without Irish culture, Swedish culture, Italian culture, Greek culture, Spanish culture, French culture, et cetera.

It’s beyond imagining.

#####