http://www.news-leader.com/story/life/faith/2016/01/29/local-resident-describes-escape-former-refugee/79512112/
202
20
The Hobrath family had this family photo taken shortly before the family patriarch left to serve in the Nazi army in 1944, after being forcibly conscripted. He was killed that summer. (Photo: Submitted)

When Henry Hobrath hears about the plight of refugees from Syria and other besieged countries, he can relate.

An ethnic German whose ancestors lived for centuries in what is now Yugoslavia, Hobrath was once a refugee, fleeing an oppressive invader and ethnic cleansing. Fourteen years later, his family was finally able to immigrate to the United States.

Hobrath now shares his story, as he did recently at a Kiwanis of Ozark Empire meeting, but not before declaring his love for his adopted country with a medley of patriotic tunes on his harmonica.

Buy Photo (Photo: Linda Leicht/for the News-Leader)

It was in 1785 when Hobrath’s ancestors arrived in what was then Austro-Hungary, along the River Danube, to farm the rich river basin. The area had once been part of the Ottoman Empire; then, following nearly 40 years of war, it became part of the Austrian Empire. But war had devastated the region, and the Hapsburg emperor invited German farmers to resettle the area, eventually turning it into a "bread basket" for the region.

The ethnic Germans became known as Danube Swabians (Donauschwaben) and never lost their ethnic identity even while living peacefully among their neighbors — Hungarians, Croats, Serbs and Romanians. Following World War I, the empire was divided and the Swabians found themselves in either what was left of Hungary or the newly formed Romania or Yugoslavia.

The Hobrath family became Yugoslavian citizens. But when the German Nazis waged war in Europe, the Swabians’ fortunes turned. Neighbors saw them as collaborators; some say they were scapegoats. Hobrath calls them "Hitler’s last victims."

Some of the Swabians did support the Nazi regime, and some resettled in Germany. But most, like Hobrath’s father, chose to stay in their homeland. That decision cost them dearly. In 1944, the family patriarch was forced into the German army. In June, the family learned he had been killed, leaving a widow and four orphans. Henry was 4 years old.

When the Soviet army swept into the region in October, things got even worse.

"We were forced out of our home overnight," Hobrath recalls. His mother was able to get only a few things together when, the next day, a horse-drawn wagon was in front of their house. One wagon for each of the Swabian families created what seemed like a large wagon train to take them to a detainment camp in the mountains of southwest Poland. The trek would last for weeks.

Hobrath tells the story of the entire wagon train crossing the Danube. "Just as the last wagon crossed, the bridge was blown up," he says. "Old and young lifted their voices to heaven to thank God. It was a miracle."

Reasons to cheer were few. The group left their wagons to ride in cattle cars on trains. They slept on straw in the cold winter, eating only bread and a drink from the Red Cross at occasional stops, before arriving at a camp, then leaving for another as the war raged on.

The war ended in 1945, but the family’s struggles did not, as they lived under Soviet rule and continued ethnic hatred. Finally settled in northern Austria, where they lived for the next three years, his mother was forced to do backbreaking work for scant wages, but she was able to save enough money to plan her family’s escape.

With a small group of other refugees, they took a train to Salzburg, walking to the nearby German border. There, under cover of the darkness of night, they crossed the river into Germany. After walking for several kilometers, they arrived at safety, in an area controlled by the U.S. Army.

"The Americans let us sleep on their bunks while they slept on the floor," Hobrath recalls. "That’s when I fell in love with Americans."

A U.S. military truck took the group to a refugee camp in Bavaria where they were put in a large room in an old factory building along with four other families. Each had a little corner with a bunk and straw mattresses, and they were fed from the camp kitchen twice a day.

They lived there from 1948 until 1950 when the German government began to distribute refugees throughout Western Europe. The Hobraths and some other families were sent to the small village of Schwegenheim in the Rhineland region of southwest Germany.

Like a strange human auction, the families stood in the town center where local farmers came to choose a family. "But no one wanted to take us," he remembers. Some families offered to take his mother and 15-year-old sister only, but she refused to leave her sons. Henry was then 10, his brothers 8 and 13.

"Mother said, 'God has kept us together until now. I will not leave my children now.'," Hobrath says. "She wept and prayed as we children stood around her. In late afternoon a man came and said, 'Woman, do not cry. You and your children come with me.'"

The man, one of the most respected and richest farmers in town, allowed the family to live in an unoccupied home on his land and brought them a basket of cherries as a welcome, he recalls.

"Mother and we children thanked our Heavenly Father for being so good to us," Hobrath says.

But the local populace did not really accept the refugees. Despite their ethnic German heritage, they were not viewed as real Germans, just as their Yugoslavian neighbors rejected them as being German.

"The native people didn’t like us much, much like the Syrians fleeing ISIS," he adds.

They lived in Schwegenheim for the next six years. During that time, his uncles and grandparents were also able to join them. His uncles left for America in 1951, but it was not until 1955 that the Hobrath family applied to move. A spot not the lung of one of his brothers kept the family in Germany another year, but they were finally able to leave in 1956. Henry was 16.

They took the long ocean voyage aboard an old army troop ship. "After that, it went to the scrap yard," Hobrath says.

The family arrived in Cleveland, Ohio, where his uncles had settled. His grandparents followed in 1959. The family later moved to New Jersey.

Hobrath joined the U.S. Army, an homage to those G.I.s who gave up their beds for the weary refugees. He married and raised his own family, eventually settling in Springfield, where he says he never plans to leave.

(Some of the information in this report came from "The Last Waltz on the Danube" by Ali Botein-Furrivig and "Danube Swabian History" by Rosina T. Schmidt.)

Mom of boy killed in Joplin tornado wants empty chair at graduation

Read or Share this story: http://sgfnow.co/1SO66jZ