http://www.nairaland.com/3094065/nigerians-protest-germany-over-fulani
202
20
Nairaland Forum / Nairaland / General / Politics / Nigerians Protest In Germany Over Fulani Herdsmen Attack In Enugu. Photos (14220 Views)

Protest In Asaba Over Fulani Herdsmen / Photos: Nigerians Protest Over ‘crazy’ PHCN Bills In Abuja / Nigerians Protest At MTN, Multichoice, And Shoprite Offices' Outlet (1) (2) (3) (4)

(0) (1) (2) (Reply) (Go Down)





Source; Nigerians in Germany took to the streets over the weekend -to protest against the unlawful massacre of innocent civilians in Nimbo, Uzo-Uwani local government area of Enugu State by Fulani herdsmen. The Nigerian community in Germany also sympathized with the people of Enugu State of the great loss -as they urged the government to do something to prevent further attacks from the herdsmen.Source; http://www.nationalhelm.net/2016/05/nigerians-in-diaspora-stage-protest-in.html 3 Likes

more 1 Like

okay, we are watching 1 Like

and the protest continues.. Buhari do something

BBOG own pass this one o0o!! Naija government no be am biko!!

According to Buhari: IPOB, Shiite's & NDA are rascals that needs brutal & lethal force, but Fulani Herdsmen are SACRED. FG deals with NDA's, IPOB's & Shiite's openly but, when it comes to Fulani herdsmen, FG chose to deal with them secretly. Isn't that HYPOCRICY at it's peak??











LAST BULLET: People might be thinking that IPOB will be the cause of Nigeria's disintegration, but reverse is the case. Fulani Herdsmen will champion it.. 62 Likes 3 Shares

Later, dey will tell us dat Igbo are not united

That dey hate each other.

Just c d way igbos worldwide rallied behind Uzo Uwani.



Dre is no Tribe dat is more united than Igbos. 113 Likes 12 Shares





Cow eat d crop..



Farmer threatens the cow..



Herdsmen kill the farmer...



Relatives protest killing...



Soldier arrest relatives...





Who d fahk design this system??

Farmer plant crop...Cow eat d crop..Farmer threatens the cow..Herdsmen kill the farmer...Relatives protest killing...Soldier arrest relatives...Who d fahk design this system?? 90 Likes 8 Shares

idensko:

Later, dey will tell us dat Igbo are not united



That dey hate each other.



Just c d way igbos worldwide rallied behind Uzo Uwani.





Dre is no Tribe dat is more united than Igbos.

Is bore out of jealousy.......no tribe in Nigeria has ever cordinated any kind of protest out of Nigeria, none!

Igbo's look out for each other Is bore out of jealousy.......no tribe in Nigeria has ever cordinated any kind of protest out of Nigeria, none!Igbo's look out for each other 47 Likes 4 Shares

Let your voices be heard, we must unite against barbaric herdsmen 5 Likes

Please stop staging meaningless protest and causing public nuisance.



Your support to make your people defend themselves in whatever manner possible should be paramount. 2 Likes

MR President should please listen to the cry of these people 1 Like

Hope the President takes action... this is killing the Image of Nigeria 2 Likes

Rr

The 'fulanis' has taken an inreparable loan.

We are waiting for the dull.ard at London next week.



Hope he will come with lawal and buruntai. 12 Likes

How does this help peeps in nigeria

The Fulani herdsmen are not in Germany. They should come here and protest. 1 Like

it's a SHAME...



this happenings!

Herdsmen killing and all!

Genocidal president

BUHARI again..!!!



IGBOS are really powerful.

IF not for them, i think the ISLAMIC AGENDA would have been accomplished long ago.



Because an Ideal Yoruba Family has an ISLAMIC ancenstry and most of there domain has been conquered.



the IGBOS fight from within and Diaspora 28 Likes 2 Shares

issokay.

nice one, and i hope ajala listens 5 Likes

IPOB!!! 1 Like

Hmmm just watching.

Great move we need more of this from other country..... I remember when I was working in Enugu I love that state and I can't for get my Opa dioku lol 6 Likes

I dislike weak governments like the one we always have in Nigeria 5 Likes

Ok

Black people dey leave their country run go oyibo land dey make noise 2 Likes