http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-3749284/Jellyfish-stop-screen-glare-Sea-creature-s-SKIN-inspires-wrinkled-material-make-phones-easier-read-bright-sunlight.html
130
13
When a squid is startled the muscles in its skin contract, producing colourful patterns that help camouflage it while jellyfish use wrinkles to warn off predators.

Now these incredible properties of the sea creatures' skin have inspired researchers to develop new materials that could help make your phone easier to read in bright sunlight.

The scientists say by giving materials these same properities they can find uses in anti-glare screens and for spy-like encryption methods.

When a squid is startled the muscles in its skin contract, producing colourful patterns that help it camouflage, and when a jellyfish (pictured) is scared its skin wrinkles to warn off predators. Now these properties have inspired researchers to solve new problems

'When they're scared, some types of jellyfish form a wrinkled surface that is opaque and warns off predators,' said Songshan Zeng, from the University of Connecticut.

'That same surface is transparent when it's flat.'

This wrinkly skin is now being used to create anti-glare screens for phones, the researchers say.

HOW A SQUID CAMOUFLAGES To change the colour of its skin, an octopus has thousands of colour-changing cells known as chromatophores beneath the surface of its skin. These contain an elastic sac full of pigment, the colour of which can be altered. The sacs can also be expanded or contracted by an array of nerves, and when it is expanded the colours become more visible. By controlling the size of projections on its skin known as papillae, an octopus can also change the texture of its skin from bumps to spikes. This means they can not only match the colour of a reef, but its texture as well.

It works because wrinkles scatter light rays in multiple directions, rather than reflecting them directly back at the person viewing.

'Our experimental materials use cracks, folds or wrinkles to mimic the surface engineering of skin,' said Professor Luyi Sun, who lead the research.

Even more impressive is the reaction of a squid when it is startled.

Its muscles in its skin contract, exposing colored pigments that serve as camouflage.

'These new materials are unique because they change colour or transparency when they're stretched or exposed to moisture.'

The wrinkly materials could also be used to make James Bond-style secret messages.

'Like finger skin, whenever part of the film is exposed to moisture, it swells slightly, generating wrinkles,' Professor Sun said.

A coating on a circuit board is unobservable when dry, pictured. But it contains a material that wrinkles when exposed to water, and the wrinkles will never disappear

The board wrinkles to display 'H2O' when exposed to moisture (pictured). This could be used for showing manufacturers when phones have been damaged by water, indicating the customer has voided their warranty

The films can be made so that wrinkles can be generated by moisture, and if they are smoothed out they will not form again.

This property lends itself to a way of writing encrypted messages that could be read and then erased for good.

Another kind of film creates wrinkles generated by moisture can never be erased.

This kind of film could be used to make a small label incorporating the technology that could go inside a phone. If the phone fell into a toilet, permanent wrinkles would form on the label, which could warn companies if a customer had voided the warranty by dropping it in water.

The researchers will present their work today at the 252nd National Meeting & Exposition of the American Chemical Society (ACS).

As the video progresses, the octopus starts to become visible. 'I dove down to have a look at the shell that you can see just under where the octopus appears and as I approached the octopus came out of hiding,' said Jonathan Gordon, the diver who captured the footage