http://www.afr.com/news/world/europe/terror-threat-seen-unabated-after-paris-fugitive-is-captured-20160319-gnmg1p
203
20
Security in Belgium remains at its second highest level even after the arrest of the terror suspect Salah Abdeslam. Getty Images

Marine Strauss and Tara Patel by France and Belgium warned citizens they risk further terrorist atrocities even after a four-month manhunt ended in the dramatic capture of suspected Paris attacker Salah Abdeslam. Belgium kept its terror threat unchanged at Level 3, the second-highest level, as Prime Minister Charles Michel vowed on Saturday to keep up the fight against Islamist terrorism. Abdeslam, believed to be the sole surviving participant of the November massacre that left 130 people dead, was dubbed Europe's most wanted man after going to ground in the days after the Paris assault. Three teams of men linked to the Islamic State blew themselves up outside a stadium, fired at restaurant and cafe patrons, and shot members of the audience at the Bataclan concert hall on Nov. 13. "We are totally convinced that the fight is not over, the fight for security, the fight against the various forms of extremism, the fight against terrorism," Michel said the day after special forces dragged Abdeslam out of a house in the Molenbeek district of Brussels, the scene of earlier police raids in the aftermath of the assaults in Paris.

"We are totally convinced that the fight is not over," said Belgium prime minister, Charles Michel. AP

Extremely High' Risk

French Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve said in the French capital on Saturday that the threat remains "extremely high" despite a series of arrests since the attacks and "intense" operations by police to dismantle networks used for recruitment. "We will win our war against terrorism by acting without truce or break," Cazeneuve said. France plans to continue to increase the number of police who are armed as part of the fight, he added. Earlier, Belgian Foreign Minister Didier Reynders told BFM TV that Belgium would respond as quickly as possible to French President Francois Hollande's bid to extradite Abdeslam -- a move opposed by the terror suspect's lawyer. "We will make sure to meet this demand as favourably as possible under international agreements," Reynders said. Abdeslam should be in Paris "in the coming weeks." Michel said judicial cooperation with France "will stay at its maximum.

Europe's most wanted man, suspected Paris attacker, Salah Abdeslam was caught by police during raids in the Molenbeek borough of Brussels. Brussels will move to extradite him to France as quickly as it can. Supplied

Fighting Extradition Abdeslam's lawyer Sven Mary said that while his client is cooperating with Belgian justice, he will fight extradition. "There is first a case in Belgium that needs to be dealt with," he said after meetings with an investigating judge. "He has to explain himself and his extradition could be suspended while waiting for development of the investigation in Belgium." Belgian and European arrest warrants were issued against Abdeslam following meetings with the judge on Saturday, Mary told reporters. A Brussels court will decide on Wednesday whether to prolong the Belgian warrant, he said. A decision on the European warrant, which could pave the way for his extradition, will be made within 15 days, he said.

Abdeslam, who will be detained in a high-security prison in the city of Bruges, has acknowledged he was in Paris at the time of the November attacks, he said. Interpol Vigilance Prosecutors said in a separate statement he was accused of participation in terrorist assassination and participation in the activities of a terrorist organization. Global police agency Interpol urged extra vigilance at border controls to its 190 member countries, saying the capture may encourage any accomplices to attempt to flee Europe, or elsewhere.