http://blogs.timesofisrael.com/ahead-of-thursday-vote-un-watch-vying-to-block-anti-israel-penny-green-from-key-post/
202
20
Ahead of Thursday’s critical UN Human Rights Council vote on who will fill Richard Falk’s old position — as their permanent investigator of “Israel’s violations” — the top-ranked candidate Penny Green has just blocked me on her Twitter account.

A telling reaction from a university academic who apparently has no rebuttal to the major report we issued, “Mandate to Discriminate,” which exposed her — and other candidates’ — bias and extremism.

Ms. Green is angry that we showed the UNHRC President her tweets accusing Israel of “Apartheid,” her call for a total boycott of the Jewish state, and her support for Hamas.

Support BDS against Israel – best way to resist this criminal government: Five Things That Netanyahu Actually Said https://t.co/BpF3bSBGB5 — Penny Green (@pennyjgreen) October 23, 2015

Academics should now systematically refuse any invitations to visit Israeli universities or attend conferences there. — Penny Green (@pennyjgreen) August 3, 2014

War on Gaza: the west must impose sanctions against, boycott and divest from Israel. Protests around the world against Israel's crimes. — Penny Green (@pennyjgreen) July 20, 2014

UN Watch has launched a massive diplomatic campaign and online petition opposing her appointment, leading to numerous protests and newspaper articles documenting her breach of objectivity and impartiality.

Reactions followed worldwide, in Canada, U.S., UK, Italy, and the Netherlands:

Letter Canadian Opposition leaders urged Prime Minister Trudeau to oppose Green and Lynk:

UK lawyers opposed Penny Green in a letter to Baroness Anelay, UK Minister of State of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office

Former U.S. Deputy National Security Adviser Elliot Abrams blasted the nomination of Green National Review

Tim Marshall, former Sky News Diplomatic Editor, published an o p-ed opposing Green’s bid

opposing Green’s bid Italy’s Il Foglio published an op-ed by Giulio Meotti opposing Green, entitled “Quei burocrati dell’Onu che paragonano Israele allo Stato islamico” (Those UN bureaucrats who compare Israel to the Islamic State)

Dutch news editor Paul van der Bas, writing in De Dagelijkse Standaard, called the nomination “A new low for the biased UN Human Rights Council.”

It’s time for Penny Green to understand what Hamas backer Richard Falk learned: That if you are a UN appointee or candidate who supports terrorist groups, we at UN Watch will continue to land on you like a ton of bricks.

To join our urgent campaign now, click here to send a message to world leaders demanding that Green — and all other biased candidates — be rejected.

Compare US and UK govt responses to the IS in Iraq with Israel in Gaza. No question of bombing Israel for its massacres. — Penny Green (@pennyjgreen) August 13, 2014

A rare insight by channel 4 into Israel's brutal killing of children in Gaza: http://t.co/SnfLl1LOJ2 — Penny Green (@pennyjgreen) July 17, 2014

Ethnic cleansing of Palestinians in apartheid Israel http://t.co/dasuMtAhqX — Penny Green (@pennyjgreen) May 27, 2014