http://www.nationalturk.com/en/syria-bloodbath-in-homs-last-straw-for-bashar-al-assad-16267/
203
20
Over 200 people killed in Syria’s Homs in shelling by Syrian forces before critical UN vote for Bashar al-Assads fate.

Over 200 people killed in Syria’s Homs in shelling by Syrian forces before critical UN vote for Bashar al-Assads fate.

Damascus / NationalTurk – More than 200 Syrians were blasted in shelling by pro Assad Syrian forces in the city of Homs, Syria anti government activists stated , as the U.N. Security Council prepared to vote on a draft resolution backing the Arab League decision for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to give up power.

Death tolls cited by activists and opposition groups ranged from 217 to 260, making the Homs attack the deadliest and bloodiest so far in Bashar al-Assad’s crackdown on protests which started 11 months ago, inspired by uprisings that overthrew three Arab leaders, called Arab Spring.

Syria government forces : Killed 200 in bombings but committed also suicide ?

Syrian forces were reported began shelling the Khalidiya neighbourhood in Homs at around 8 p.m. local time on Friday using artillery and mortars. At least 36 houses were completely destroyed with families inside.

As news of the newest wave of Syrian violence spread, a crowd of Syrians stormed the Syrian embassy in Cairo in protest, and rallies broke out outside Syrian missions in Britain, Germany and the United States.

It was not immediately clear what had prompted Syrian forces to launch such an intense bombardment, just as diplomats at the Security Council were discussing the draft resolution supporting the Arab League demand for Assad to step aside.

Some activists said the violence was triggered by a wave of army defections in Homs, a stronghold of protests and armed insurgents who Assad has vowed to crush.

Syrian activists say Khalidiya was a key anti-Assad district. Assad forces are believed to be bombarding Syrians to scare other rebel neighbourhoods. “It does not seem that they get it. Even if they kill 10 million of us, the people will not stop until we topple him.”

Syria National Council : Most horrific massacre during Syrian protests and uprising

The opposition Syrian National Council announced 260 civilians were killed, describing the shelling as “one of the most horrific massacres since the beginning of the uprising in Syria”.

It added that it believed Assad’s forces were preparing for similar attacks around Damascus and in the northern town of Jisr al-Shughour.

Another group, the Local Coordination Committees, gave a death toll of over 200. It is not possible to verify activist or state media reports as Syria restricts independent media access.

Syria Violance : Assad or forces to topple made this massacre ?

Disturbing video footage on the Internet showed at least eight bodies assembled in a room, one of them with the top half of its head blown off. A voice on the video said the bombardment was continuing as the footage was filmed.

One activist stated residents were using primitive tools to rescue the people. They feared many were buried under rubble after shelling paused.

“We are not getting any help, there are no ambulances or anything. We are removing the people with our own hands,” he pleaded, adding there were only two field hospitals treating the wounded. Each one had a capacity to deal with 30 people, but he estimated the total number of wounded at 500 in the Syria Homs massacre

“We have dug out at least 100 bodies so far, they are placed in the two mosques.” More on Syria Homs massacre on www.nationalturk.com/en