http://ekurd.net/pkk-denounces-istanbul-blast-2016-03-20
203
20
SULAIMANI, Kurdistan region ‘Iraq’,— The KCK, a political umbrella group linked to the Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) militants, has condemned the Istanbul blast on Saturday that killed at least four people and wounded 36 others.

The Communities in Kurdistan KCK issued a statement following the attack saying it is against the targeting and killing of civilians.

“The Co-Presidency also offered condolences and well wishes to the families of the civilians massacred in Istanbul,” the statement read.

The KCK further said it stands against the massacre of civilians, describing it as a crime.

“The Co-Presidency recalled its dedication to abide by the Geneva Convention on War and stated that the guerrillas of the Kurdish freedom struggle would continue to act within the boundaries of this convention,” the statement read.

A suicide bomber killed himself and four others in a central Istanbul shopping and tourism district in the fourth such attack in Turkey this year.

Turkey’s Health Minister Mehmet Muezzinoglu said 36 were wounded in the attack, among them 12 foreigners.

Police and security forces cordoned off the usually bustling Istiklal Street, which is lined with restaurants, cafes, retail shops as well as foreign consulates.

There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the bombing.

The Kurdistan Freedom Falcons (TAK), a radical Kurdish group, claimed responsibility for the March 13 attack that killed 35 people in Ankara.

Some observers say there is strong evidence that TAK is a splinter group led by commanders who have split from the PKK because of dissatisfaction with its tactics, along the lines of the Real IRA and the IRA.

The PKK denies a link to the TAK Falcons.

The PKK took up arms in 1984 against the Turkish state, which still denies the constitutional existence of Kurds, to push for greater autonomy for the Kurdish minority who make up around 22.5 million of the country’s 78-million population.

A large Turkey’s Kurdish community openly sympathise with PKK rebels.

Copyright ©, respective author or news agency, nrttv.com | Ekurd.net

Comments

Comments