http://www.politico.eu/article/serbian-prime-minister-eu-membership-cant-glue-balkans-together-aleksandar-vucic/
203
20
Serbian Prime Minister Aleksandar Vučić | Andrej Isakovic/AFP via Getty Images Serbian PM: EU membership can’t glue Balkans together On the way to Europe, countries need to guard their own interests, Aleksandar Vučić said.

Serbia’s Prime Minister Aleksandar Vučić called on leaders of Western Balkan countries to start working together because the prospect of their integration into the European Union is not the only bond in the region, broken by war, ethnic strife and economic stagnation.

Speaking at the Sciences Po university in Paris on Friday, Vučić said countries of the region that had fought a series of wars after the break up of Yugoslavia in the early 1990s have to find a way to come together and start relying on themselves to advance their own interests.

“European Union is no longer the only factor of cohesion that can link up the Balkans,” Vučić said, according to a report by Al Jazeera Balkans. “The countries need to do this themselves. Yes, we are on our path to Europe, but we need to take care of ourselves. If we understand this, we will have a bright future.”

Twenty years after the guns fell silent, the region is still volatile, Vučić said, and although people of the “whole Western Balkan region are tired of conflict and a prolonged transition,” there is still “potential for internal instability and ethnic conflicts,” he said.

“Hidden conflicts still exist,” Vučić said, urging other leaders to put them down forever by working to better people’s lives, raise their standard of living and emphasise that “we can not survive without one another.”

Serbs have been blamed for much of the bloodshed during the recent wars in which hundreds of thousands have been killed and expelled from their homes to never return in a practice that became known as ethnic cleansing. Serb paramilitaries were also behind the 1995 Srebrenica massacre in Bosnia, in which more than 8,000 Muslim men and boys had been killed.

“I am one of those, who once thought, like some still do today, that we are better than others,” said Vučić, a former member of the Serbian radical nationalist party. “Now I know that we need to work together, live together, think differently and change our state of mind.”