http://www.newsday.co.tt/news/0,234366.html
130
13
A d v e r t i s e m e n t

TATTOO EYED RAPIST

By Nalinee Seelal Monday, October 10 2016

click on pic to zoom in

A RAPIST with the image of an eye tattooed in the middle of his forehead and wearing three gold tooth caps in his mouth is lurking somewhere in Central Trinidad. It is believed he has raped before and will do so again.

His latest attacker was abducted and taken to an apartment where she was beaten and raped repeatedly for hours by the human predator, before he later dropped her off along a road.



Police said that based on the description given by the woman, they are hopeful the suspect will be arrested soon.



The terrified woman told police that at half past seven on Thursday evening, she stood at Busy Corner in Chaguanas awaiting transport to be taken to her home in Central Trinidad. The 28-yearold woman said she boarded a silver-coloured Nissan Wingroad station wagon and asked the male driver to take her to her destination.



However, the driver later picked up another passenger who asked to be taken to Montrose.



The driver proceeded to drive to Montrose but instead of dropping off the male passenger there, he continued driving to Enterprise, Chaguanas where he dropped off the male passenger who grabbed the woman and pulled her out of the car, threatening to kill her if she screamed.



As the driver sped off, the man forced the woman into an apartment.



Inside the apartment, the woman’s terrifying ordeal began.



She told police that the man who is African descent, slim build, with a black beard, three gold tooth caps in his mouth and the tattoo of an eye in the middle of his forehead, began to beat her mercilessly. He ordered her to undress and proceeded to rape her. Police sources told Newsday that investigators were told by the woman that throughout Thursday night and into the early morning hours of Friday, she was raped repeatedly by the man.



When the woman failed to return home, her worried relatives made calls to her cellular phone but it was switched off and went straight to voice mail. Relatives made a report on her disappearance to the district police station.



At 2.30 am, the man told her to get dressed while he made a call on his cellular phone. Holding onto her, the man took the woman out of the apartment and walked with her to the Southern Main Road where a red Nissan Almera car pulled up and she was ordered to get in. The driver later took the woman to Freeport and dropped her off.



As she limped towards her home, the woman’s relatives ran out to greet her. On being told what she had endured, the relatives quickly called the Chaguanas police. She was taken to a health centre where she was medically examined by Dr Reddy.



Because of the extent of her physical injuries the woman remains warded at a public medical facility. As she lay on her hospital bed, the woman was interviewed by police officers where she gave them a description of her attacker.



Police yesterday warned members of the public especially women to exercise caution when travelling at nights and whenever possible, not to go in Private Hire (PH) taxis. “We have a number of reports of women being abducted and attacked including robbed and in some cases raped, by either the driver of PH cars or persons in the car who may be associates of the driver but posing as passengers. When possible, try and avoid using PH cars as your means of transport,” a senior police source stated.



A sketch of the tattoo-eyed rapist will be distributed to police officers in Central Division to aid in his capture and prosecution.



In an unrelated incident, at 4.30 am on Saturday, a 47-year-old self employed electrician was walking along Cemetery Street in Valencia when she was accosted by a man who began kicking her. Although she struggled with the man, the woman was overpowered, taken to some bushes and raped. A report was made to the Valencia Police Post and the woman was later medically examined by a district medical officer. WPC Joseph is investigating.







