http://www.capitalgazette.com/opinion/columns/ph-ac-ce-column-hayes-williams-0917-20160917-story.html
202
20
The 2016 presidential campaign is the most divisive I have experienced in my adult life. While it has been going on, the media revealed that filmmaker Nate Parker, while in college 17 years ago, was charged with rape and subsequently acquitted. Some have decided to refrain from seeing his new film because of this. Others believe this is an attempt to thwart the success of that movie, "The Birth of a Nation."

Parker created and sold this film, which is about the rise and fall of Nat Turner and the historic massacre of white slave-holding Americans, for $17.5 million. The film is named for the 1915 silent film, complete with white actors in blackface, which I watched again. It was sickening.

"The Birth of a Nation" — originally titled "The Clansman" — focuses on the Civil War and its aftermath. It was used to perpetuate and strengthen the second rise of the Ku Klux Klan, which lynched thousands of African-Americans after emancipation, with minimal penalties.

Nat Turner's massacre in 1831 evoked local action by all clergy, including the colored clergy of both Asbury United Methodist Church of Annapolis (then the First African Methodist Episcopal Church of Annapolis) and its mission church in Broadneck, known today as Asbury United Methodist Church of Broadneck.

In the aftermath of the massacre, everyone across the nation was on high alert; with white slave-holders creating safety commissions and vigilante groups, while free blacks, mobilized politically to protect their freedom and to monitor the treatment of the enslaved, were compromised as a result of Turner's actions.

Vigilante and safety committees gained support from the Maryland General Assembly, and most of their requests were granted and enacted into law by the end of session in December 1831. Numerous laws restricted movement of the colored population of Maryland. These included a measure making it unlawful for slaves and free blacks to assemble or attend meetings for religious purposes without a white-licensed or ordained preacher.

This law — "Section 7, Laws of Maryland — 1831" — had an exception stating that in Baltimore City and Annapolis, assemblies including slaves and free blacks could take place with the written permission of a white preacher. Could this exception be the birth of civil rights for colored citizens in the city?

At the time, the Rev. Henry Price, the owner of a confectionary at Church (now Main) Street, was well respected by all. He was an ordained deacon and elder in the First Methodist Episcopal Church of Annapolis (now Calvary), the son of Smith Price and the leader of his father's church (now Asbury).

Two months before the Maryland law was enacted, in October 1831, a letter by the Rev. Price was published by The Maryland Gazette. Here are excerpts:

"Whereas certain rumors, accompanied with suspicions of unfavorable character, have been circulated through the country respecting the colored population, calculated to destroy that confidence which the white population have reposed in them,

"Resolved therefore, that we deeply and sincerely regret that any circumstance should have transpired to create those suspicions.

"Resolved, that we who reside in this city, and its vicinity, who now compose this meeting, cannot refrain from expressing our grateful acknowledgments in possessing the assurance that the confidence of their white friends are still reposed in them, and that no rumor has been able to impair the same.

"Resolved, that should anything occur contrary to our views of good order, peace and tranquility, as inculcated in the word of God, we will use every means, and all our influence to put it down … That it is our highest wisdom to live soberly, righteously and godly in this present world, that in the world to come we may be sharers of eternal life."

Leadership, resistance to oppression and disparate treatment began here with our ancestors, who refused to accept laws intended to change their way of life.

Don't miss this film. This is our legacy in America.

Janice Hayes-Williams is an Annapolis historian and writer. Contact her at ourlocallegacy@aol.com.