http://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/3468110/posts
203
20
Skip to comments.

Kenya kills three women attackers of Mombasa police station

BBC News ^ | 9/11/2016 | BBC

Posted on by Nextrush

Three woman have been killed after trying to stage an attack at the main police station in the Kenyan port city of Mombasa, officials say.

The women, wearing hijabs, entered the station saying they wanted to report a crime, police say.

One of the women pulled a knife and another threw a petrol bomb, starting a fire. Two officers were injured,

It is not clear who is behind the attack, the Islamist group al-Shabab has staged numerous attacks in Kenya....



(Excerpt) Read more at bbc.com ...

TOPICS:

Extended News

News/Current Events

War on Terror

KEYWORDS:

I've been reading French politicians of the socialist party trying to make Muslim clothing on beaches an issue to distract from the terrorist violence and the easy immigration policies involving Muslims. Its not the clothes, its the violence committed by the people in the clothes that should be concerning us.



To: Nextrush

Kenya is just 11% Muslim, and this happens. Kenya is overdue for some ethnic cleansing in self-defense.



by 2 posted onby PapaBear3625 (Big government is attractive to those who think that THEY will be in control of it.)

To: PapaBear3625

“Kenya is just 11% Muslim, and this happens.” It would have been a tad higher but they sent their village idiot to us.



by 3 posted onby Mouton (The insurrection laws maintain the status quo now.)

To: PapaBear3625

The Kenyan Coast has been mostly Muslim for well over a millennium. All of the Slave Traders settled there when they retired. ;-) https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Islam_in_Kenya



To: Nextrush

Waiting for BLM to weigh in...



Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works.

FreeRepublic , LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794

FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson