http://thenationonlineng.net/maduekwe-ex-minister-laid-rest/
130
13
The remains of the late Ambassador, Chief Ojo Maduekwe, a former minister of Transport and later Culture has been laid to rest in his country home Asaga Ohafia.

Maduekwe was buried after a funeral service by the Presbyterian Church.

Speaking at the funeral service, Abia State governor Okezie Ikpeazu described the deceased as a wonderful family man, a great patriot, a warrior and hero who lived well.

Nigeria, he said, lost a patriot with his demise.

He said Abia is proud of the deceased whom he said was a worthy son and lived a life worthy of emulation.

The governor recalled the late Maduekwe served Nigeria and Abia State selflessly, pointing out that his death shows the ephemeral and transient nature of life.

He stressed the need for the living to have a good relationship with God so that testimonies will flow when they die.

Ikpeazu said: “His death is a painful one, though to us it is harvest time but we cannot question God who gives at his own time and takes also at his own time.

“We however thank God because he lived well and left many legacies.”

Senator Ita Enang extolled the sterling qualities of late Maduekwe who he said served Nigeria at various capacities with diligence and sincerity.

In his sermon, the Moderator of the Presbyterian Church, Most Rev Emele Mba Uka, cautioned people to be careful how they live so that good things will be said when they die.

He called on Nigerians not to celebrate looters but emulate people with integrity and sincerity like the late Maduekwe, who he said left his foot prints on the sands of time.

Daughter of the deceased, Mrs. Ultra Dike, in a funeral oration described her father as a good and selfless man who served God diligently without any reservations.

The funeral service was witnessed by several eminent persons including Ikpeazu and his wife, Nkechi; immediate past first lady, Dame Patience Jonathan; Senators Theodore Orji, Senators Enyi Abaribe and Mao Ohuabunwa attended the funeral service.

Others were Minister of Transport, Rotimi Amaechi; former Akwa Ibom State Governor Godswill Akpabio; House of Representatives members and members of the BoT of the PDP, led by Senator Wali Jubril.