http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/Congress-playing-politics-on-Amnesty-Jaitley/articleshow/53802571.cms
130
13
BENGALURU: A day after Karnataka government virtually gave a clean chit to Amnesty International, facing sedition charges for its event on Kashmir, union minister Arun Jaitley said on Sunday that the Congress government was doing vote-bank politics.The state unit of BJP and an outfit representing Kashmiri Pandits have sought a central probe into the alleged pro-freedom slogans. Bengaluru police booked Amnesty last week on Monday after BJP's student group ABVP protested and alleged that slogans on Kashmir's independence were raised at the event held at a city college two days earlier. Ex-servicemen also joined ABVP's protest in Bengaluru on Sunday, while Jnanpith award-winning Kannada writer Chandrashekhar Kambar said that slogans against India and its army were not acceptable.Karnataka's home minister had said on Saturday that the NGO did not do anything seditious by holding a discussion in which Kashmiris spoke about alleged excesses by security forces in the valley. G Parameshwara had said, "I do not believe Amnesty has conducted any seditious activity. Shouting slogans is not anti-national. The programme was organised to instil confidence among Kashmiris facing excesses by security forces." Parameshwara had also asked Congress workers to resist protests by ABVP seeking action against Amnesty International.Reacting sharply to Parameshwara's comments, Union finance minister Arun Jaitley said in Jammu on Sunday that 'Azadi' slogans could not be treated as freedom of speech by "an organisation which gets funding from abroad". Jaitley compared the slogans to those raised at JNU earlier this year which saw some students being arrested on charges of sedition, sparking a major row over freedom of expression in the country. Sedition carries a maximum penalty of life imprisonment, although convictions are rare.Karnataka's BJP unit has approached Union home minister Rajnath Singh for a probe by the National Investigation Agency into the alleged anti-India slogans. It said that the state had not acted on the FIR. "The programme 'Broken Families' clearly showed a nexus between Amnesty International and secessionist forces, and has exposed a systematic, sustained misinformation campaign against Indian government agencies, especially the Indian Army," said a letter to Singh signed by BJP MLA R Ashoka and MP PC Mohan.Earlier, Karnataka BJP president BS Yeddyurappa also wrote to Singh seeking Centre's intervention. R K Mattoo, chairman of Kashmiri Hindu Cultural Welfare Trust (KHCWT), demanded that the event be probed by central agencies, and questioned Amnesty's credibility by saying the NGO never talked about those killed by terrorists in the valley.Amnesty has said that the event aimed "to seek justice for human rights violations" in Kashmir, and dismissed the charge, saying the three accused persons never raised anti-India slogans. Aakar Patel, executive director of Amnesty International India, said the Bengaluru office would continue its operations despite protests.The controversy comes as Kashmir experiences its worst unrest in recent years after security forces killed a militant commander last month, sparking protests in which more than 60 civilians have been killed.