http://www.israelherald.com/index.php/sid/247573773
203
20
MONTREAL, QC--(Marketwired - November 01, 2016) - Siyata Mobile Inc. (the "Company" or "Siyata") (TSX VENTURE: SIM) (OTC PINK: SIMFF) is pleased to announce that it has officially launched both its Uniden速 U620 Rugged phone and Uniden速 UCP200 (formally known as Voyager) at Hot Mobile, a leading Israeli mobile operator.

Hot Mobile is in the process of migrating from its IDEN network to POC (Push-To-Talk Over Cellular) on their 4G LTE network. The deal comes after four months of trials using Kodiak PTT as the POC software provider. Siyata has fully integrated the Kodiak software into its devices to give customers a seamless PTT over cellular experience, previously available with Motorola IDEN devices.

Marc Seelenfreund, CEO of Siyata, stated, "We are extremely excited to launch our innovative push to talk over cellular devices with Hot Mobile and believe this is a great large-scale opportunity for Siyata. We have commenced sales of both products and are receiving outstanding responses from Hot Mobile customers." The Uniden速 U620 is the latest addition to its growing portfolio of devices targeting the blue collar mobile industrial markets, as well as innovative mobile solutions for consumers. The powerful, multi-functional cellular phone is based on an Android operating system, with all the features expected in a ultra-rugged device while supporting leading Push-To-Talk software options for instant communication.

About Siyata

Siyata Mobile Inc. is a leading global developer and provider of innovative cellular communication systems. Siyata's "Connected-Vehicle" devices and accessories are specifically designed for professional fleets such as trucks, vans, buses, ambulances, government cars and more. Siyata aims to provide greater mobile connectivity for professional drivers and to facilitate replacement of the current in-vehicle, multi-device status quo with a single device that incorporates voice, data, and fleet management solutions.

Through its newly acquired subsidiary Signifi Mobile, Siyata also markets and sells Uniden速 cellular signal boosters and accessories across Canada and the United States. Siyata's customers include cellular operators, commercial vehicle technology distributors, and fleets of all sizes in Canada, the US, Europe, Australia, and the Middle East. Visit http://www.siyatamobile.com/ to learn more.

On Behalf of the Board of Directors of:

SIYATA MOBILE INC.

Marc Seelenfreund

CEO and Director

Neither TSX Venture Exchange nor its Regulation Services Provider (as that term is defined in policies of the TSX Venture Exchange) accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this release.

This news release may include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. All statements within, other than statements of historical fact, are to be considered forward looking. Although the Company believes the expectations expressed in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results or developments may differ materially from those in forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements include market prices, continued availability of capital and financing, and general economic, market or business conditions. There can be no assurances that such statements will prove accurate and, therefore, readers are advised to rely on their own evaluation of such uncertainties. We do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements except as required under the applicable laws.

Investor Relations:

Arlen Hansen

Kin Communications

1-866-684-6730

SIM@kincommunications.com



Paradox Public Relations

Carl Desjardins

1-866-460-0408

info@paradox-pr.ca