http://www.frontpagemag.com/point/264138/allah-akbar-muslim-commemorates-911-stabbing-spree-daniel-greenfield
203
20
(The Victim: Wayne Greenhalgh)

At the 9/11 memorial, Obama claimed that diversity is our greatest strength. I leave it to the discerning reader to ask whether this kind of diversity is our greatest strength or weakness.

Ihsas Khan, 22, allegedly stabbed a stranger in an Islamic State-inspired attack on Saturday afternoon, chasing his victim while repeatedly yelling "someone is going to die today," witnesses said. And Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull speaking as his government prepares to introduce another tranche of anti-terrorism legislation on the eve of the 15th anniversary of the September 11 terror attacks in the US, said the Minto attack served as a reminder "the terror threat is real". Neighbours saw Mr Khan waiting in a reserve on Ohlfsen Road for as long as 10 minutes before local man Wayne Greenhalgh, 59, came through the park on his daily walk. Mr Greenhalgh was then allegedly stabbed several times with a large knife, suffering near-fatal wounds to his hands and body. He had to run for his life into a neighbour's home before Mr Khan tried to smash his way in through a glass door while shouting "Allah Akbar". Mr Greenhalgh's wife Bronwen said Mr Khan had approached them earlier in the day with a Koran in his hand.

Nothing to do with Islam. Of course.

Fairfax Media understands local police had been called on two occasions when Mr Khan abused and threatened people in public for their non-Islamic behaviour. He was also charged with maliciously damaging property when he destroyed an Australian flag in 2013 yet the matter was dealt with under the Mental Health Act.

Because the latest excuse for Muslim terrorists is that they're mentally ill.

When police searched his family home on Saturday night, they found an electronic copy of Islamic State's magazine Dabiq and evidence he had been searching for extremist YouTube videos. Fairfax Media has been told that in an interview with police, Mr Khan said he knew the leader of Islamic State and believed he was justified in killing people to protect and exact revenge for Sunni Muslims.

Don't worry. This is just a "perversion" of Islam though.

Mr Turnbull said, whereas the Minto attacked was the latest of an increasingly prevalent number of lone wolf attacks.

"At one level they seem very different, 15 years apart, different events. But connecting them both is a violent Islamist ideology which perverts the religion of Islam and seeks to destroy and threaten our way of life," he told a media conference, adding the heroism of those on the scene also linked the two events.

Mohammed was the first to pervert the peaceful religion of Islam with mass murder, robbery, rape, ethnic cleansing and child abuse. Ever since then Islam has been perverted.

Meanwhile let's be really vague about it.

Deputy Police Commissioner Cath Burn said at a press conference this morning. She said it was planned and Khan was shouting words at the scene that led bystanders to believe he was committing a terrorism attack.

"Words" of some kind.