http://www.messengernewspapers.co.uk/news/14375066.display/
202
20
PATROLS at Manchester Airport have been stepped up following this morning’s bomb attack at Brussels airport.

At least 23 people are thought to have been killed following two explosions close to the American Airlines check-in desk in the Belgian captial’s airport at around 8am local time.

Shortly after, at around 9.19am another explosion was heard at Maelbeek Metro station in the centre of Brussels – at least ten are believed to have been killed.

The city was already high alert following the capture last Friday of Paris massacre suspect Salah Abdeslam in the Molenbeek neighbourhood of the city.

Security at stations and airports across the world has been ramped up following this morning’s suspected suicide attacks, including Manchester Airport.

Assistant Chief Constable John O’Hare of Greater Manchester Police said: “First and foremost, our thoughts are with all those who have been affected by the incidents in Brussels today.

“There is no specific threat in Greater Manchester following the events this morning but we remain at a threat level of severe.

“We are working closely with Manchester Airport to ensure that the appropriate response is in place and we have increased our patrols to support this.

“We will continue to review the situation and maintain our increased patrols in crowded areas, iconic locations and transport hubs.

“The events today in Brussels reinforce the need for us all to remain vigilant and report any concerns whilst continuing with normal daily life.”

Greater Manchester’s Mayor and Police & Crime Commissioner Tony Lloyd spoke out against the attacks.

He said: “The terrible events in Brussels will shock and outrage people around the world. All communities here in Greater Manchester will wish to express their solidarity with, and sympathy to the people of Belgium.

"Our thoughts are with them, alongside a determination that those who would seek to sow discord and fear through death and destruction will never win.”