http://www.radio.cz/en/section/news/valuable-painting-returns-to-zlata-koruna-monastery
202
20
News Valuable painting returns to Zlatá Koruna monastery

13-04-2016 13:47 | Ruth Fraňková

The Madonna Zlatokorunská, a valuable gothic painting of a mother and child, has returned to the Zlatá Koruna monastery in South Bohemia after 78 years. The painting, created between 1410 and 1420, will be accessible to the public as of April 17, representatives of the National Heritage Institute said on Wednesday. It was taken away from the monastery in 1938 in a move to pre-empt it falling into the hands of Nazi Germany. After the war it became part of the National Gallery’s collection. It was returned to the Catholic Church in the 1990s.

For the daily news summary, available after 8pm CET, click here.

Supreme state attorney again “most influential Czech woman” 02-11-2016 09:42 | Ian Willoughby Supreme state attorney Lenka Bradáčová has been named the most influential woman in the Czech Republic for the fourth year running by Forbes magazine. The magazine’s editor said she merited top spot in the survey thanks to the courage and energy with which she tackles major cases involving business, politics and sometimes billions of crowns. Second on the list was the county’s European commissioner, Věra Jourová of ANO, followed by the financial director of PPF, Kateřina Jirásková.

Minister backs far-reaching proposals to boost birth rate 02-11-2016 09:36 | Ian Willoughby The minister of labour and social affairs, Michaela Marksová, is preparing far-reaching changes in family policy in a bid to boost fertility rates in the Czech Republic, Mladá Fronta Dnes reported on Wednesday. Her proposals include free kindergartens, higher one-off maternity benefits and children’s allowance and encouraging father’s to take paternity leave. Minister Marksová’s plans have the support of her Social Democrat party leader, Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. However, coalition partners the Christian Democrats want the project to be halted and the issues considered at government level. ANO chief Andrej Babiš said he had not yet seen the proposals. The likely cost has not been outlined, Mladá Fronta said.

Zaorálek calls for meeting on Dalai Lama policy 01-11-2016 20:52 updated | Ian Willoughby The Czech minister of foreign affairs, Lubomír Zaorálek, wants the government to discuss on Wednesday an agreement he says the cabinet made in 2014 not to meet officially with the Dalai Lama. The arts minister, Daniel Herman, recently received the Tibetan spiritual leader in Prague, sparking a row between the two ministers. Referring to that meeting, Mr. Zaorálek said on Tuesday that people would also be annoyed if somebody had met the Sudeten German leader Konrad Henlein while there was a legitimate Czechoslovak government in the interwar period. He later apologised for the Henlein reference.

Fresh record budget surplus set in October 01-11-2016 14:26 | Ian Willoughby The state budget surplus reached a new record of CZK 98.3 billion at the end of October, up from CZK 82.3 billion at the end of September. The result was the best for the tenth month of the year since the foundation of the Czech Republic in 1993. Officials attribute the development to improved tax collection. While a deficit of CZK 70 billion was planned for the whole of 2016, the minister of finance, Andrej Babiš, said the budget would actually show a surplus for the entire year.

Book written in Terezín by Holocaust victim set for Prague presentation 01-11-2016 14:09 | Ian Willoughby A book written in Terezín concentration camp by Otto Weiss, who later died at Auschwitz, is being presented at Prague’s Maisel Synagogue on Tuesday evening. Copies of the book entitled I viděl Bůh, že je to špatné (Even God saw it was bad) will be signed by the author’s painter daughter Helga Hošková-Weissová, who illustrated it in Terezín at the age of 13. Mrs. Hošková-Weissová, now aged 86, is herself the author of Helga's Diary: A Young Girl's Account of Life in a Concentration Camp.

Ex-ministers accuse Zeman of violating constitution over China declaration 01-11-2016 13:52 | Ian Willoughby Former ministers Michael Kocáb and Jan Kalvoda have led a call on Czech deputies and senators to examine whether President Miloš Zeman has committed gross violation of the constitution. The demand comes after Mr. Zeman, the prime minister and the chairmen of both houses of Parliament issued a declaration assuring China of continued positive relations between the two states. Mr. Kocáb and Mr. Kalvoda, who are part of a group called Kroměříž Challenge, said Mr. Zeman had not been empowered to make such a statement and that doing so contravened the principle of separation of powers. The declaration to Beijing followed a meeting between a government minister and the Dalai Lama that went against official Czech policy.

Trial of rip-off taxi drivers begins in Prague 01-11-2016 13:23 | Ian Willoughby The trial of six taxi drivers accused of ripping off passengers has begun in Prague. They could face up to eight years in prison for fraud after being caught levying up to CZK 200 a kilometre when the maximum amount permitted is CZK 28. One of the drivers admitted overcharging customers but told the judges on Tuesday that in most cases they had been aware of the price before he took them to their destinations. A former official from Prague’s taxis authority is also standing trial in the case.

Minister wants tougher rules for students who attack teachers 01-11-2016 13:11 | Ian Willoughby The Czech minister of education, Kateřina Valachová, is proposing tougher action against secondary school students who physically or verbally harass teachers or other pupils, iDnes.cz reported on Tuesday. Under a plan due to come into effect at the start of the next academic year, students should be automatically expelled for serious cases of such behaviour. The minister told the news website that there was sufficient legislation in place to deal with attacks on teachers; however, more must be done to ensure such cases come to court, she said. Ms. Valachová blamed the school management for a case this year in which a teacher in Prague died after suffering abuse from students.

Weather forecast 01-11-2016 12:45 | Ian Willoughby We should see sunny spells and rain in the Czech Republic on Wednesday while temperatures will reach up to 8 degrees Celsius. Similar weather and daytime highs can be expected for several more days.

Municipal court throws out city ban on march 01-11-2016 10:41 | Jan Velinger Prague‘s Municipal Court has cancelled the ban on a march to be held by critics of President Miloš Zeman on the national holiday on November 17, its organiser, activist Jan Cemper confirmed on Monday. Prague City hall had banned the march arguing it would cross routes with another demonstration of the president’s supporters, claiming the real aim had been to provoke clashes. Mr Cemper denied the charge. The march is expected to circumvent other planned demonstrations. The police regularly maintain a high presence during planned events to prevent clashes by rival groups. November 17 is the Day of Struggle for Freedom and Democracy that commemorates student demonstrations during the Nazi occupation in 1939 and against the Communist regime in 1989.