http://www.tribune.net.ph/headlines/sebastian-pushed-to-the-wall-de-lima
130
13
National Bilibid Prison (NBP) convict Jaybee Sebastian has been threatened with death, the reason now that he’s compelled to testify against her, Sen. Leila de Lima claimed yesterday.

“Apparently or obviously, Sebastian has been pushed to the wall. Apparently and obviously, he could no longer take the pressure,” she said.

De Lima reiterated the information that her office received of Sebastian being subjected to extreme pressure to have him testify against her, even to the point of threatening him harm or even death.

“Sebastian, I know him to be strong-willed. He would not allow himself to testify against me. In other words he can’t be forced to lie but maybe he can’t take it anymore. The reason is that he will really be targeted for elimination if he does not cooperate. He was given a preview of what he would suffer during the alleged riot. He did not die but others were killed. Others were wounded like Peter Co, Vicente Sy who were also not convinced get. But I wouldn’t be surprised in the next hearing they would show up,” she said.

De Lima claimed that Sebastian, based on her information, resisted being hauled into the ongoing congressional inquiry against her and for weeks tried to ward off those trying to convince him to be a witness in the said proceedings. “But now he has finally appeared there, and he acceded to joining the lies being peddled which means that he already caved in to the pressure,” de Lima said.

One of my sources said the real target of the alleged riot in Bilibid 19 was him. That he will be killed. So, that can only be the explanation. He was not able to take it anymore,” she said.

De Lima also expressed belief that her former security aide, a member of the Presidential Security Group (PSG) was likewise pressured to testify to corroborate the claim of Sebastian.

The senator, again vehemently denied all the new revelations made against her in the House proceedings, particularly those allegations on her romantic affairs.

“For the record, I don’t have a lover right now. I would have wished that I have so that somebody would take care of me. I am on in my lowest moments because of what’s happening to me and what’s being done to me. The next time I wouldn’t be surprised is they claim that all my security details became my boyfriend,” she said.

“But that’s foul. That’s really foul,” De Lima.

Also, the senator said there’s also no truth to the allegations on her solicitation or collection of drug money from high profile inmates to help finance her senatorial campaign in the last May 9 elections.

“There is no truth that I have a bagman because I never authorized that. I will never go for that. I will not be like that. I don’t receive any drug money. I did not and will not ever receive any money from an act of corruption, I don’t engage in those acts of corruption, not from drug money,” she said.

De Lima admitted though that she has a staff member whom she would regularly order to deposit cash for her but not in the huge amounts of cash as being alleged in the lower house hearings.

De Lima may sue Aguirre

De Lima added she is not about to take the latest action taken against her by the Department of Justice (Do), which issued an immigration lookout bulletin order (ILBO) against her and five others, sitting down.

“I will take the necessary legal action against this latest assault on my person by my successor at the DoJ,” she said, referring to Justice Sec. Vitaliano Aguirre II.

The senator maintained that there is still no basis for such issuance against her considering that the department has not dared for file any case against her either before the courts or even the Office of the Ombudsman stemming from the lower house investigation on her alleged drug links.

“I don’t think a lookout bulletin can be justified using a kangaroo court’s persecution of a sitting senator. Obviously the persecution continues by these men without balls. I already dared them to arrest me, but no one came. They have already done worse, a lookout bulletin at this point is just icing on their cake. I challenge this administration and the President,” she said.

“Are you that spineless to do those thing? Can you call yourselves real man?” she said.

Senate President Aquilino “Koko” Pimentel III downplayed the legal implication of the lookout bulletin against the De Lima and several others being implicated in the alleged proliferation of drugs inside the National Bilibid Prisons (NBP).

“A lookout bulletin is just a reporting system. If a person leaves or tries to leave, he’s to report to a central database.That is what it actually means,” Pimentel said.

Under the amended rules of the Senate, any member who wish to go abroad for personal reasons need not seek any permission or serve notice to the upper chamber leader or officer-in-charge, when Congress is in recess.

Sen. Panfilo Lacson, in another interview, said it’s the judgement call of Aguirre whether to place De Lima and others be placed under ILBO.

“The lookout order was meant only to report if a person under a lookout order is leaving the country but he or she cannot be prevented,” Lacson said.

Lacson, however, shared De Lima’s contention on the matter of the said order having any basis at this point in time as he himself does not find any.

The senator noted that Aguirre himself admitted that there is yet to be any air tight case by the government against De Lima despite the several revelations in the lower house inquiry.

De Lima merely laughed off the said issuance against her even as she claimed that she does not have any plans of going out of the country whether for some formal or official engagement or personal reasons.

Civil society forms around de Lima

De Lima, meanwhile, expressed her gratitude to the overwhelming support of several individuals and various groups for her firm determination in finding out the truth behind the unabated spate of unresolved and drug-related killings in the country.

De Lima said she is elated for the outpouring of public support she has been receiving since she has initiated the Senate investigation into the spate of extrajudicial killings and summary executions on the government’s all-out campaign against drugs.

“I am deeply moved by the outpouring of love and support from many sectors. Their words are more than enough to encourage me to keep on fighting for the values and principles we all share together,” she said.

Various women’s organizations, human rights advocates and members of the academe and civil society groups have earlier issued separate statements of support for the Senator’s advocacy, notably against the now-foiled attempt by some members of the House of Representatives to show an alleged sex video between her and her alleged lover.

They have also expressed indignation at how the Senator was removed as chairperson of the Senate justice and human rights committee and the subsequent harsh treatment she has received from her colleagues at the Senate.

“When we allow such indignity and disrepute to be visited upon a fellow human being, we, as a people, also lose our dignity and capacity for benevolence,” The Outstanding Women in National Service (TOWNS) said in an official statement.

“While we support efforts of government to reduce criminality and violence, these should be done following due process, and the rule of law,” the St. Scholastica’s College of Manila said in a statement last Oct. 6.

The Senator, who has been invited for dialogues on human rights and democracy, noted the growing awareness among members of the academe about the need to observe due process in the implementation of the government’s all-out war against illegal drugs.