http://www.telegraphindia.com/1160413/jsp/nation/story_79913.jsp
203
20
New Delhi, April 12: Minority affairs minister Najma Heptulla today walked a tightrope to reconcile an alleged contradiction in two back-to-back Muslim outreach exercises undertaken by Narendra Modi ahead of the Assembly elections.

At a news conference called to brief journalists on the Prime Minister's recent visit to Saudi Arabia, Heptulla was asked how the government reconciled the trip with Modi's participation in the World Sufi Forum, organised by the All India Ulama Mashaikh Board.

The board has repeatedly spoken about Saudi money allegedly funding terrorism in India and promoting the hardline Wahabi ideology.

"I will not reply to this question," Heptulla shot back, unusually terse. Regaining her composure swiftly, she sought to iron out the rough spots by insisting that as a minister, she was not concerned with any one sect or the dynamics between different sects.

Followers of Sufism are opposed to the radical Wahabi ideology.

Asked if Modi had endorsed one group by gracing their platform, Heptulla said: "He will endorse whoever goes to him."

She would not comment on allegations that Saudi money promoted radicalisation in India. "This is a question for the home ministry," she said.

On March 20, the last day of the four-day World Sufi Forum, the participants had spoken out against hardline schools of thought and sectarianism, which have resulted in massacres in places like Iraq and Syria.

At a Sufi maha panchayat in 2011, the board had urged Muslims to reject hardline Wahabism. The board had also criticised the Saudis for allegedly funding radical thought in India. Advocating madarsa reforms, the board had in 2011 claimed that these institutions were under the control of Wahabi-inspired organisations run with Saudi money.

Heptulla refused to be drawn into this controversy, maintaining that she was the minister for all, not any specific sect.

Asked if the Saudi Arabia visit and the participation at the Sufi forum would help Modi's party in the polls in Assam, Bengal and Kerala - all three have a sizable Muslim population - Heptulla replied in the affirmative.