http://www.newsfultoncounty.com/world/news/1348369-narendra-modi-paid-tribute-to-the-martyrs-of-the-jallianwala-bagh
202
20
On Wednesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid tribute to the martyrs of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre who lost their lives and remarked that their courage and sacrifice can never be forgotten.

“Saluting all the martyrs who lost their lives in the Jallianwala Bagh massacre. Their sacrifice & courage can never be forgotten,” the Prime Minister tweeted.Martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh massacre saluted by PM Modi

When a crowd of non violent protesters along with Vaisakhi pilgrims had gathered in Jallianwala Bagh, Amritsar, Punjab on 13 April, 1919, the massacre took place. The troops of the British Indian Army under the command of Colonel Reginald Dyer fired upon the crowd killing 379 people though the actual toll is believed to be much higher.

Some historians consider the episode a decisive step towards the end of British rule in India.

In the meantime, the Indian Workers Association (IWA), one of Britain’s oldest Sikh organizations has reportedly appealed to UK PM David Cameron to repeat in the House of Commons, his description of the massacre as a “deeply shameful act in British history”, which he made during his visit to Amritsar in February, 2013.

“This single action will cost nothing. The effect on the people of India and the Indian diaspora will be of historic magnitude,” IWA vice-president Harsev Bains wrote.

“This was a deeply shameful act in British history, one that Winston Churchill rightly described at that time as ‘monstrous’. We must never forget what happened here and we must ensure that the UK stands up for the right of peaceful protests,” Mr Cameron wrote.

He later defended his remarks saying “I don’t think the right thing is to reach back into history and to seek out things you can apologise for. I think the right thing is to acknowledge what happened, to recall what happened, to show respect and understanding for what happened”.

IWA, which dates back to 1938 as a pressure group for Sikh and Indian-origin workers across the UK, believes it is time Mr Cameron’s remarks are formally recorded.

Downing Street is yet to respond to the letter.