https://www.da.org.za/2016/04/manenberg-crisis-failure-to-solve-the-saps-resourcing-crisis-costs-south-african-lives-everyday/
202
20
Since the Easter weekend, an estimated 20 people in Manenberg have been murdered in gang-related violence due to the outbreak of a gang war between the Dixie Boys and Hard Livings gangs.

Tomorrow morning, I will conduct an oversight visit to the Manenberg Police station, as a part of a series of oversight visits across the country to drill down into the state of the SAPS at station level regarding “four U’s” (under-resourcing, under-staffing, under-equipping and under-training) and how this impacts on the SAPS’s ability to carry out their responsibility to protect the citizens of this country.

From these oversight visits, I will be able to see first-hand how the neglect of the “Four U’s” costs so many people their lives while the Minister of Police, Nathi Nhleko, and the last three National Police Commissioners have abdicated their responsibilities in favour undue political interference. Most notable is the suspended National Police Commissioner, Riah Phiyega, who is currently the subject of an inquiry into her fitness for office and her dereliction of the “Four U’s” that contributed to the Marikana massacre, the rise in gang-related crime in Manenburg and other parts of the country.

Yesterday, Western Cape Provincial Police Commissioner, Lieutenant General Khombinkosi Jula, admitted that the province faces a massive shortage of police officers. It is the responsibility the National Police Commissioner to ensure that SAPS in each province is given the resources to combat the crime in their province.

This admission is a welcomed one, noting that policing is a national competency and that national SAPS is constitutionally enjoined to act to prevent and curb spikes in violent crime that ARE on the rise. The DA has long called for more SAPS members to be recruited and trained in all provinces and that specialised gang and drug units be established in areas most affected, particularly as evidenced by the spate of violence in Manenberg.

Fighting crime is a matter of political will and the prioritisation of resources to achieve the best outcomes – that being the reduction of crime – is something that successive police Minister have been failing at miserably. The consequence has been the loss of South African lives and, in many instances, the lives of children caught in the cross fire.

We are losing the fight against rising levels of crime in South Africa, and what has become clear is that where the SAPS is most under-resourced, crime is highest.

The fact of the matter is that the Western Cape is the most under-resourced province in South Africa with 85% of stations being under-staffed with 2 392 posts that have simply not been filled. It is as tragic as it is unacceptable that the ANC government governs like black lives don’t matter by allowing violent crime to escalate in poorer communities across the country.

The SAPS top brass have known for many years that the police are under-resourced – this was pointed out by the Khayelitsha Commission of enquiry. Yet the lack of action – which costs South African lives on a daily basis – exemplifies how the SAPS top brass simply do not care about keeping poor people safe.

It is high time that the National Police Commissioner puts the needs of those communities hardest hit by crime at the fore front.