http://neurope.eu/article/turkeys-take-on-syria-kurds-and-refugees/
203
20
Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Google+ Share on LinkedIn +

In an interview with Al Jazeera, the deputy chairman for foreign affairs of Turkey’s ruling Justice and Development Party explains why Turkish military forces are shelling targets in northern Syria.

Yasin Aktay says the targets are held by the Syrian Kurdish People’s Protection Units – the armed wing of the Syrian Democratic Union Party. Turkey considers this group a terrorist organisation.

As reported by Al Jazeera, Washington and Ankara hold opposing views on Kurdish groups fighting in Syria. Washington views the Syrian Democratic Union Party, or PYD, as a close ally in the campaign against Islamic State in Syria, Ankara believes it is the Syrian wing of the Kurdistan Worker’s Party, or PKK.

Turkish forces have been bogged down in battle with the PKK for more than 30 years. The PKK is designated as a terrorist organisation by the United States and the European Union, while the PYD is not.

According to Aktay, the PKK is carrying out ethnic cleansing in northern Syria through its offshoot there, the PYD. The group has been doing this with the support of Russia.

“The PYD goes to territories where there is no or a small Kurdish population, and works to deport non-Kurdish ethnic population out of these areas,” he told Al Jazeera. “Aleppo is perhaps the only place where Syrians can still breathe. There is a humanitarian corridor [from Turkey] to Aleppo, allowing people to keep on with their lives in this key city.

“If this humanitarian corridor was blocked, which PYD seeks to achieve, people cannot go on with their lives in Aleppo and they will try to take refuge in Turkey, fleeing ethnic cleansing,” he added.

According to Aktay, Turkey’s offensive on PKK targets in the country has pushed the PKK into Syria. “They are trying to create a corridor through the Syria-Turkey border. This creates an obvious security risk for our country.”

And despite pressure from the US for Turkey to stop targeting PYD, Aktay said Turkey will not stop. “If the relations will be spoiled because of that, then so be it,” he said. “Turkey cannot tolerate what has been going on close to its borders anymore. If the Turkish military does not intervene in the current situation, the country gets attacked by the elements located inside Syria.”

As regards the ongoing Syrian refugee crisis, Aktay said Turkey is paying the entire price for the situation as the world powers are occupied with other calculations.

“Civilians in Syria rely on Turkey as the only safe place to take refugee, but this is unsustainable,” he said. “They cannot rely on us forever and Turkey cannot keep on acting as the fool in the situation it is facing.”