http://m.philstar.com/headlines/show/85e69d33f6dab21a4bc0ff57ee553524
131
13
Drug campaign a battle worth fighting – Jesuit priest

By Giovanni Nilles

MANILA, Philippines - The Duterte administration’s campaign against illegal drugs “is a battle that has to be fought,” notwithstanding reports of human rights abuses by law enforcers, according to a Jesuit priest and head of a major Catholic university in Davao City.

Fr. Joel Tabora, president of the Ateneo de Davao University, said Duterte’s “very controversial” campaign against the drug menace could be considered part of fulfillment of social justice, along with the peace talks with communist and Muslim rebels.

“It is a battle that has to be fought despite the cry of people who fear human rights violations,” Tabora said in a press conference Thursday at the Ateneo de Davao University.

He said it is actually the poor who suffer the most from the drug problem. “We must be able to fight drugs by bringing about a condition where (illegal) drugs are no longer necessary. ‘Thou shalt not kill’ also has to be applied to the millions that are being victimized by this illegal drug trade,” Tabora said.

He maintained the campaign needs full support from the people.

“There has to be support from the populace, otherwise this will just fizzle out. But we can’t be complacent even if we support the drive against illegal drugs,” he stressed.

Communications Secretary Martin Andanar said the public should not readily blame the police for the rising cases of extrajudicial killings.

“We have to qualify the extrajudicial killings. Is it done by the police, by vigilantes or by the drug syndicates themselves?” Andanar said.

Earlier, several Catholic church-based organizations warned against the spate of extrajudicial killings.

The United Nations Office of the High Commissioner on Human Rights, while not specifically blaming the Duterte administration for the killings, reminded the government that it has “a legally binding obligation to ensure the right to life and security of every person in the country, whether suspected of criminal offenses or not.”

UN special rapporteur on summary executions Agnes Callamard also noted Duterte’s calling for death to drug pushers is “irresponsible in the extreme and amount to incitement to violence and killing, a crime under international law.”

She said vigorously pursuing drug offenders should “not absolve the government from its international legal obligations and do not shield state actors or others from responsibility for illegal killings.”

Duterte reacted angrily to the UN position and even threatened to whack the head of whoever the UN sends to the country to investigate the killings.

In Legazpi City, Sen. Joseph Victor Ejercito said the administration should keep the momentum of its campaign against illegal drugs and criminality in general.– Celso Amo