http://freedomoutpost.com/2016/02/islamic-state-sex-slave-describes-how-her-family-was-massacred/
202
20
For those deluded into thinking this is just in Syria or Iraq and won't affect us here, have a look at what is happening in Europe. Rape is rampant, as is violent crime. The EU has brought this devout and violent culture into its cities, towns, villages.

"They were committing all kinds; murder, rape and displacing people by force in the name of Islam. "Imagine until now, for more than a year and a half, girls as young as nine are being rented and sold out [for sex]."

More of this bloodshed is coming to Europe and America, thanks to President Obama.

"Islamic State sex slave describes how her family was massacred," By Telegraph Reporter, February 15, 2016

Nadia Murad, 21, is in the UK as part of a campaign to raise awareness of the plight of Iraq's Yazidi population

A woman from the Iraqi minority Yazidi community who was kept as a sex slave for three months by violent jihadists, has described seeing her family slaughtered.

Nadia Murad, 21, is in the UK as part of a campaign to build solidarity with victims of violence in Iraq and unite the world against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant.

She described how she was orphaned when Isil fighters killed six of her brothers and her mother in northern Iraq.

"When I speak I didn't speak just on my behalf, but on behalf of all the women and children affected in the war zone," she said, according to The Mirror.

"Two months have passed since I have been campaigning and people have been happy, not just Yazidis, about this message.

"About 5,800 Yazidi women and children were captured by the so-called Islamic State. They have killed many people in Iraq and Syria and displaced millions.

"For us, the Yazidis, they killed the men and took the women and children.

"They were committing all kinds; murder, rape and displacing people by force in the name of Islam.

"Many people may think my story is difficult, but many more had more difficult than mine.

"They killed six of my brothers, but there are families that have lost 10 brothers."

She was speaking at Trade Union Congress House in central London and is in the UK to address parliamentarians.

She wants more help for Yazidis living in refugee camps, and an investigation into whether the militant group has committed genocide against the Yazidi people.

Isil considers them heretics.

A number of mass graves, containing hundreds of women's bodies, have been found around Miss Murad's hometown of Sinjar.

She said 3400 women were still being held by Isil.

"A year and a half has passed and the genocide against the Yazidis is continuous. We die every day because we see the world silent in the face of our plight," she said.

"My mother saw them killing my brothers and then they took my mother and killed her.

"I was already orphaned as I didn't have a father, all I had in the war was my mother.

"But when they took me to Mosul and raped me, I forgot my mother and brothers. Because what they were doing to the women was more difficult than death.

"Imagine until now, for more than a year and a half, girls as young as nine are being rented and sold out [for sex]."

Article reposted with permission from PamelaGeller.com, the opinions and views shared do not necessarily reflect the views of Freedom Outpost.

Pamela Geller's commitment to freedom from jihad and Shariah shines forth in her books