http://rightwingnews.com/terrorism/least-28-dead-terror-attack-hit-brussels/
202
20
At Least 28 Dead As Terror Attack Hit Brussels

Gee, I wonder who could have carried out the attacks?

(Daily Mail) At least 28 people have been killed and dozens injured in Brussels after a series of terror attacks struck the city’s airport and a metro station near the EU headquarters. Witnesses described apocalyptic scenes with blood and ‘dismembered bodies everywhere’ after two blasts rocked the American Airlines check-in desk at Brussels Airport at 8am (7am GMT) in a suspected suicide bombing. At least 13 people have died and 35 were injured. Then 79 minutes later at 9.19am, at least 15 people were killed and scores seriously injured when a blast hit a Metro station just 400 metres from the EU headquarters in the city centre. At the airport, there were reports of a firefight between police and the attackers who shouted in Arabic moment before detonating their bombs. The blasts sent shockwaves through the terminal building, shattering windows, knocking roof tiles off the ceiling and sending terrified passengers running for their lives. The explosions have left countries worldwide reeling, with security placed on high alert, flights cancelled, Eurostar services suspended and France’s border with Belgium shut down.

Two suspects were arrested in proximity to a metro station. Will they be Buddhist monks?

#Brussels death toll 15 dead, 55 injured in subway station, +28 dead at airport https://t.co/iy5JWE5Vlf pic.twitter.com/Ce3lQTqWUm — Business Insider (@businessinsider) March 22, 2016

BREAKING NEWS: Death toll rises to at least 28 in #Brussels terror attacks. https://t.co/S5EKicYAm0https://t.co/S4R7q10oYu — Fox News (@FoxNews) March 22, 2016

There are many more photos available at the Daily Mail of the horror and results of these terrorist attacks, which occurred just a short time after the arrest of Paris massacre suspect Salah Abdeslam in the Brussels on Friday. NYC, London, Paris, and many other cities are ramping up security in the wake of the attacks. But, hey, as Scott Johnson notes

But don’t jump to conclusions or get yourself worked up events in Brussels today. You may find yourself accused of “Islamophobia.” It’s a mental illness. Are we permitted to observe that even “Islamophobics” have real enemies?

BTW, aren’t these attacks bad for ‘climate change’? All that dust and carbon pollution from the blasts?

Oh, and if you thought Obama would be concerned, well, there have been no statements by Obama nor the White House. He was “briefed” while vacationing in Cuba, but, no one seems to have any quotes from Obama. Nor have their been any statements. He’ll get around to it at some point, probably after a nice breakfast that most Cubans have never seen, much less eaten.

Crossed at Pirate’s Cove. Follow me on Twitter @WilliamTeach.