http://bulawayo24.com/index-id-opinion-sc-columnist-byo-83479.html
203
20
Opinion / Columnist

For Zimbabwe to survive, the Zezuru supremacism must die



Almost a fortnight has lapsed since the first lady and members of her G-40 were embroiled in a tribal storm where they seemed to suggest that a Karanga can never be a president. While their utterances can be viewed as political banter as one of the protagonists of the clique once enunciated, but the glaring lack of dialogue on this pertinent issue baffles the mind.



It was so surprising that President Mugabe had the audacity to apologise on the tear-gassing of the war veterans by the police relegating to the dustbin such a crucial issue that can propagate the seeds of genocide. The lion of Africa-Mugabe the Rwandan ethnic cleansing is still fresh in our minds and it's high time you ban your mistress' meet people's rallies before it is too late.



It must be noted on the very onset that Zimbabwe is a unitary state composed of several languages and dialects and not even one of these diverse tribes has political, economic and cultural title deeds to claim exclusive rights for this country. For Grace, the First shopper to dance to the Zezuru unconquerable jingle is not only ill-thought but vindicates the notion that she is political virgin despite sharing the sheets with the grandfather of Zimbabwe's political orientation.



It is also proves right Zimbabweans who disapproved her PHD as what she did without an iota of doubt make her a simple house wife rather than a political contender of repute. For someone who must be grandmotherly to twerk her bum to tribal diatribe is not only uncultured but opens up to a wider range issues which the generality of the populace take for granted. Surely, the foundational principles of this nation called Zimbabwe needs to be revisited for the better of today and the other generations which will come after us.



Going forward, Zimbabwe across all geopolitical divides need to find a point of convergence and debate robustly on tribalism and power transfer matrix that is fair and transparent to all groups. Under such a round table, no person is allowed to demonise other groups' views. Zimbabwe belongs to all tribes in it be it Karanga, Manyika, Kalanga, Venda or Zezuru and it's high time we get rid of othering of groups we do not belong for the better of this landlocked country. Zimbabwe, this is our time to put into practice the famous words by Samora Machel; "For a nation to survive, a tribe must die." By so doing, this will put paid to this simmering problem that have been haunting Zimbabwe since her infancy days when more than 20 000 innocent souls were merciless maimed, tortured and butchered in the western parts of Zimbabwe for simply being Ndebele.



Secondly, the Hararenisation of Zimbabwe must also top on the agenda. Since time immemorial, Harare has remained the epicenter of economics and political administration. All companies are controlled from Harare be it recruiting of a watchman or a cleaner for a company doing exploitation of Midlands, Manicaland or Matebeland south. While it is common knowledge that due to the fluidity nature of culture and the passage of time, no one can to be an original Zezuru, Karanga or Ndebele, but is a cause of concern if people from the same region dominates the political and economic space. It is from this coincidence or planned matrix that makes a certain tribe considers itself the pinnacles of Zimbabwe.



Let us dismantle the scourge before it is too late. Zimbabwe is home to everyone regardless of difference in sex, race and creed.



Musavengana Hove is a budding political writer. Email soldierjournalist@gmail.com for feedback.







Source - Musavengana Hove