http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/Call-me-a-dog-but-not-a-Pakistani-Baloch-refugee/articleshow/53780775.cms
202
20
BACKGROUND X Baloch separatists upbeat after Modi salvo Baloch separatist demonstrators holding placards Highlights PM Modi's recent mention of alleged atrocities in Balochistan has brought the Baloch issue under international limelight

Baloch groups, including those based in US and elsewhere have hailed PM Modi

Mohajirs, and other disgruntled groups in Pakistan are also trying to make their voices heard in Washington and international forums WASHINGTON: On a warm summer morning this past June, a small group of Baloch separatist demonstrators stood in front of the White House as India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi made the short journey from Blair House to 1600, Pennsylvania to meet President Obama. ''PM Modi: Balochistan loves you and needs you,'' read one of the placards held by a protestor. ''Help us achieve our freedom from the terror sponsor state of Pakistan'' and ''Pakistan Army is the world's top ISIS,'' read other posters.



As it turned out, they got the cold shoulder. Balochistan was not on Modi's radar during the visit, whose outcomes did not touch on the developments in the restive province, although it has gained increasing attention in Washington, including Congressional notice and censure. With New Delhi now turning the spotlight on the province, ostensibly as payback to Pakistani needling in Kashmir, the propaganda and perception battle has truly been joined in Washington DC.



Already, a flurry of statements has cascaded from Baloch separatist leaders welcoming Modi's statement and seeking greater attention from the international community. Terming Modi's salvo as a ''positive development,'' Khalil Baloch, chairperson of the Baloch Nation, urged the International Community to ''follow suit and help put an end to Pakistan's 68 year Occupation of Balochistan,'' maintaining that the Baloch have existed as an ethnic group for thousands of years and as a nation state for centuries and it is through the revival of the Baloch state that regional peace can be guaranteed.



''An Independent Balochistan will help curtail the rogue Pakistani state's transnational terrorism. The Pakistani state as part of its Counter Insurgency Policy is developing and strengthening religiously driven terrorist groups, such as the Taliban, Daesh, Lashkar-e-Khurasan, Lashkar-e-Taiba, Lashkar-e-Jhangvi and the like, that the Pakistani state is supporting in every way; from logistical, medical and military support to the provision of finances,'' Baloch said, warning the world to ''understand that Pakistan's use of religious terrorism as a policy tool will have far reaching consequences.''



The Baloch cause already has attracted some Congressional support, notably from California lawmaker Dana Rohrabacher who has even convened a hearing on the subject and introduced a resolution calling for the right to self-determination for province. In an op-ed he wrote at the time of the hearing, Rohrabacher accused Pakistan of not only sheltering al-Qaeda but also providing a base of operations for the Taliban, who continue to kill Americans.



''With one hand (Pakistani) officials thumb their noses at us and with the other hand they grab billions in our foreign aid. It is time Washington stopped aiding Pakistan and developed a closer friendship with India and, perhaps, Baluchistan,'' Rohrabacher said.



Indeed, the mood on Capitol Hill and in the administration is decidedly cool towards Pakistan, which appears to have exhausted Washington's goodwill with what critics say is its doublespeak on terrorism. While Pakistan's foreign affairs advisor Sartaj Aziz seized on Modi's reference to Balochistan in his Independence Day speech as evidence of its contention that India has been ''fomenting terrorism'' in the province, Islamabad's strenuous effort to make the case of Indian involvement has failed to make any headway both in the US and at the UN.



Instead, Pakistan has increasingly come on the US radar for producing radical Islamic terrorists who have spread across the globe, from San Bernardino to Sydney. While some liberal Pakistani analysts acknowledge this and want the country to change course, hardline Pakistani commentators- many seen as ISI lackeys- live in denial, preferring instead to blame India for the country's ills.



Meanwhile, Pakistan is finding out that it is not just the Baloch who are stirring up Washington, but also Mohajirs, Muslim refugees from India who were instrumental in the founding of Pakistan. Smarting under the crackdown by the Punjabi-dominated Pakistan military, Mohajirs have become increasingly vocal in expressing disenchantment with the Pakistani entity. A recent Mohajir demonstration in front of the White House against the Pakistani military resulted in clashes with a group of pro-military activists, bringing the fractious nature of the Pakistani state out in the open in US.

RELATED STORIES

Baloch refugees +

BACKGROUND X PM’s mention of POK in I-Day speech rekindles his hopes MEERUT: Beant Singh lost his entire family when he was 11 years old. All of them were killed in the communal riots that marred the country during Partition. He fled Pakistan and settled in Meerut.



On Monday, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the nation from the rampart of Red Fort and referred to India's right on Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir (POK) region, 81 years old Singh jumped with joy.



He always wanted an easy access to the other side of LoC, so that he could visit his ancestral village - which is close to the border. "As an adolescent, I cried a number of times standing near a water stream that separates POK from the rest of Kashmir," he said. "I could still see my home from this side. Someone told me that a colonel of Pakistan's military stays there now," the octogenarian said.



"I want to visit the home of my birth, at least, once before I die," Singh told TOI.



His house is located in Wand Ka Moda village of Poonch.



"I sometime do not know how to react when the entire nation celebrates August 15. I lost everything in partition that ruined my life forever," he said.



"My mother and two brothers were burnt alive among others in a Gurdwara where they had taken refuge in Rawalpindi. I was staying in a hostel and studying in Khalsa School when the news came. Army rescued me. I was already deprived of all money and clothes I had. A total of 13 aanas and a blanket that concealed my watch were all that I left with from Pakistan. This watch was my last memory of my father."



After staying for a few days in refugee camps, Singh could take it no further.



"I got myself in a train at Amritsar and moved to Delhi. From there I came to Meerut," he said.



In his Independence Day speech, PM had raked up the issue of POK and Balochistan, thanking people from these regions for their words of praise. "The people of Balochistan, Gilgit and POK have thanked me a lot in the past few days. I am grateful to them," Modi said, reacting to Baloch leaders' call for help.

RELATED STORIES

Independence Day speech +

BACKGROUND X Balochistan is Pakistan's most complicated region: Former diplomat A Pakistani policeman stands guard at the site of a suicide bombing at the Civil Hospital in Quetta, Balochistan. (AFP photo) WASHINGTON: Balochistan is Pakistan's most complicated region and significant parts of the restive province are not necessarily controlled by the government, according to a former Pakistani diplomat.



"Balochistan is Pakistan's most complicated region, and unfortunately people try to simplify the problems there. It is not all about the mistakes of the Pakistani military, or the corruption of civilians in power, or the nationalists, or the presence of the Taliban. It is all those things," the former Pakistan Ambassador to the US, Husain Haqqani, said in an interview to The Atlantic magazine.



Noting that significant parts of Balochistan are not necessarily controlled by Pakistan's central government, Haqqani said the ethnic Baloch areas have a greater sympathy for nationalists who would like to see either an independent or autonomous Balochistan.



"The army tries to suppress them, sometimes with the help of religious extremists," he said.



"Also, the elected government in the province did not get significant mandates because the Baloch parties boycotted the last election and many people were elected with the low turnout of 10, 12, in some places 15 per cent. So these political leaders are seen by the majority of Baloch as the puppets of Islamabad," he added.



Responding to a question on freedom movement in Balochistan, Haqqani said this goes back to the country's creation, when the Muslim majority part of India left and became Pakistan.



"Some Baloch leaders say Balochistan's integration into Pakistan was done forcefully. But more important than that is the neglect. This is a resource-rich province, and instead of the people benefitting from those resources, they end up in other parts of Pakistan," he said.



The Pakistani military, he said, has to have a clear definition of who it considers the enemy.



Instead of cultivating one group of jihadi and fighting others, it needs to go after all jihadi and extremist groups.



"It also needs to start a process of reconciliation with the Baloch nationalists. These are citizens of Pakistan who feel they have been neglected, and therefore are feeling restive and unhappy. Putting in more troops is only going to escalate the violence. Not end it," Haqqani said.

RELATED STORIES India is meddling in Balochistan: Baloch govt

Pakistan invites self-exiled Balochistan leaders for talks

Omar Abdullah lashes out at Centre for raising Balochistan

Balochistan is not India's business: Salman Khurshid on PM's I-Day speech

Balochistan +

NEW DELHI: When 25-year-old Mazdak Dilshad Baloch arrived in India a few months ago, he raised the suspicion of immigration authorities at the New Delhi airport. Mazdak had a Canadian passport which showed the place of birth as Quetta in Pakistan Mazdak, one of the fewin New Delhi told ET: "I was at pain explaining to the immigration authority that I was not a Pakistani. Call me a dog, but not a Pakistani. I am a Baloch. Because of my place of birth, I faced a lot of harassment."The story of Mazdak is similar to thousands of Baloch who have sought asylum in different parts of the world after being hounded by the Pakistan army. Mazdak's father was abducted, mother harassed and properties damaged.The family had to seek asylum in Canada where they reside now. Mazdak and his wife are in India to create awareness about the Baloch freedom movement.They are happy that for the first time in 70 years of their struggle New Delhi has lend open support to their struggle.Prime Minister Narendra Modi in hishad said: "I want to express my gratitude to the people of Balochistan, Gilgit and PoK for the way they wholeheartedly thanked me, the way they expressed gratitude to me... People of a distant land I haven't even seen... When they thank the Indian prime minister, it's an honour for the 125 crore people of the country."ETHNIC CLEANSING"My father Mir Ghulam Mustafa Raisani, a filmmaker, was abducted by the Pakistan army and kept in detention in Quetta between 2006 and 2008. My mother is a political activist.After my father was released my parents left for Canada. Pakistan wants ethnic cleansing in. They want Balochs to accept Pakistan nationhood or else they kill us. They have committed genocide in our country," a distraught Mazdak told ET. The 25-year-old said he fled to Afghanistan in 2010 first.With the help of United Nation High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) he managed a refugee status and later under the rehabilitation programme migrated to Canada, where thousands of Baloch nationals have found refuge, after a bloodbath that resulted in killings of more than tens of thousands of Balochs."We want the Government of India to help form a Balochistan government in exile, like the Tibetans. Every Baloch appreciates what Prime Minister Modi has said. Balochs around the world are working towards forming a government in exile," Mazdak said.NO SCHOOLINGSpeaking about the struggle in Balochistan, Mazdak said his brothers and sisters did not receive proper schooling. "I studied at a school in Quetta. But now the situation has worsened. Pakistan has set up madrassas every 10 km in Baloch and want to brainwash innocent youth.""Because there is no education, there are no jobs. A common Balochi can find only menial job. Islamabad has appointed Pakistani Muslims in all important positions in Balochistan. Its army has created a mess in the entire region. The economic resources of our land are plundered. Pakistan has opened the doors for Chinese companies for mining coal reserves and other natural resources," he said.PAK ARMY DEFLECTING BLAMEMazdak who migrated to Canada in 2014 said that he was never contacted by any Indian agencies in India or Balochistan.When asked about Pakistan's allegations on the involvement of the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) in Balochistan, Mazdak said, "I am from Baloch and lived there for a very long time there. I have not seen any Indian agent. Nor has anyone contacted me or my family. It is all being done by Pakistan. It is a factory of terrorist.Islamabad wants to deflect the blame and blame India's RAW. To my understanding, there has been no support for Balochs from India or Indian agencies in the past 70 years."Blaming Pakistan for the mess in Balochistan, Mazdak said, "Islamabad has such a tight grip over the region that even the Pakistan media is not allowed free access to the region. Whatever stories on Baloch is first vetted by the Pakistan Army's ISPR. This makes it difficult for locals to voice the atrocities committed by Pakistan. It is also difficult to estimate the numbers of army personnel deployed in the region. If India can give details of Army deployment in Kashmir, why cannot Pakistan reveal the figures in Balochistan?"Mazdak alleged that Pakistan forces indulged in organ trade in Balochistan. "We have seen so many cases and bodies of Baloch nationals abducted, killed and their organs removed.We have been trying to raise the issue at the international level."