http://en.farsnews.com/newstext.aspx?nn=13950530000383
203
20
Foreign Policy

Spokesman: Cavusoglu Discussed Regional Developments with Zarif in Tehran for 5 Hours

TEHRAN (FNA)- Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu made a short visit to Tehran on Thursday and discussed regional developments, specially Syria, with his Iranian counterpart Mohammad Javad Zarif for five hours, Foreign Ministry Spokesman Bahram Qassemi confirmed.

“The Turkish foreign minister made a short visit to Tehran on Thursday to follow up on the agreements and consultations held between the two countries during Zarif’s visit to Ankara last week,” Qassemi said on Friday night.

He added that the Thursday negotiations between the Iranian and Turkish foreign ministers in Tehran lasted for five hours.

The Iranian Foreign Ministry official noted that during Zarif’s visit to Ankara and his talks with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and other senior officials on August 12, the two sides agreed to hold intensive negotiations at different levels.

Qassemi said the two countries' senior officials would hold several meetings at different levels in the near future.

In a relevant development on Friday, Cavusoglu confirmed that he has travelled to Tehran on Thursday and discussed the situation in Syria with senior Iranian officials, including Zarif.

"We should boost our efforts and as the time lapses, the issue of Syria becomes deeper; for the same reason I traveled to Tehran yesterday," the TRT television channel quoted Cavusoglu as saying.

He reiterated that Tehran and Ankara are currently discussing different issues such as Syria, Yemen, Iraq and other regional issues.

"The terrorist groups of Pejak and PKK as well as the need for establishment of a ceasefire in Syria are among other issues which Tehran and Ankara are discussing," Cavusoglu added.

Last Friday, Cavusoglu appreciated Iran's support for his government during the July 15 failed coup attempt in Turkey.

"In a telephone conversation in the very first hours of the coup attempt in Turkey, the Iranian foreign minister expressed support for the legitimate Turkish government and nation which we appreciate very much," Cavusoglu said in a joint press conference with Zarif in Ankara.

He said that Zarif repeatedly made phone calls to voice Iran's support for the Turkish government and nation against coup plotters.

Also last Friday, Zarif in a meeting with Cavusoglu in the Turkish capital underlined the need for the further expansion of mutual cooperation in different areas, specially in the war on terrorism.

"Iran and Turkey are important role players in the region, and they should boost cooperation on fighting terrorism," Zarif said during the meeting.

Zarif, who was on an official visit to Turkey in a meeting with Cavusoglu last Friday discussed mutual cooperation and regional developments.

This was the first visit by a high-ranking Iranian official to Turkey since the July 15 failed coup attempt in the country. Iran was the first country to condemn the coup.