http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/cbi-probes-possible-government-job-scam/1/745126.html
1313
13
Highlights 1 CBI suspects a scam in selection of government employees.

2 Staff Selection Commission had filed a complained earlier this month.

3 4 people were arrested for manipulating answer scripts.

The CBI is probing a possible test-rigging scam in selection of government employees following a complaint from the Staff Selection Commission that recruits for several posts in ministries and departments at the Centre.

After registering a case on June 28, the Central Bureau of Investigation arrested four contractual SSC employees allegedly involved in manipulating answer sheets. While Mahender and Dharmendra were arrested on August 18, Anil and Yograj were taken into custody on Saturday.

"Some candidates in the Combined Graduate Level Examination 2015, Tier II, had intentionally left their sheets blank or partially filled, which would be filled with the correct answers by some scorers (daily wage employees) in the SSC at the time of the evaluation of the OMR sheets," the FIR says.

Mukesh Saroja, counsel for one of the accused, said his client is being targeted as he is a temporary employee. The act cannot be committed without the involvement of regular staff and police must probe this, the lawyer argued.

OMR TECHNOLOGY

The Optical Mark Recognition (OMR) technology scans a printed form and reads predefined positions and records where marks are made on the paper. This mechanism is useful for applications in which large numbers of hand-filled forms need to be processed quickly and with great accuracy, such as surveys, reply cards, questionnaires and ballots. A common use is in the "bubble sheets" for multiplechoice tests. A candidate has to answer a question by filling in the corresponding bubble.

COMPLAINT TO THE CHAIRMAN

SSC chairman A Bhattacharyya said in his complaint to the CBI last November that he received a message on his phone tipping him off about the dubious methods being used for money to help aspiring candidates. The informer provided three roll numbers for verification.

"In the investigation so far it has come out that the four men arrested are not earning more than Rs 15,000 but had huge amounts, up to lakhs, in their bank accounts and even had properties in their name," a CBI officer said. "We are trying to find the mastermind behind the act."

The complaint was marked to the secretary, department of personnel and training.

The commission found in an internal inquiry that from the three roll numbers, two OMR sheets had been only partially filled and in one answers were marked against all questions. The SSC then examined the answer sheets of the same candidates for the Combined Graduate Level Examination 2015 Tier - I and discovered that there was a difference in the ink colours used to mark answers.

The part one that comprises columns such as name and roll number were filled with a certain ink that was different in colour from the ink used to fill the second part in which the answers are marked in the spaces provided against the questions.

Also read:

SSC paper leak: Delhi Police Crime Branch starts enquiry

