https://www.yahoo.com/news/cdc-warns-pregnant-women-avoid-073432713.html
1313
13
Five new cases of Zika virus were confirmed in Miami.

Federal health officials at the Centers for Disease Control have confirmed that five new cases of Zika were diagnosed in the popular South Beach neighborhood of Miami Beach, Florida.

The CDC has urged pregnant women and their partners to avoid travel to Miami-Dade Country.

As reported by the New York Times, the new Zika cases were diagnosed in two men and three womantwo residents of the state of Florida, and three tourists who were visiting South Beach from New York, Texas, and Taiwan.

The CDC also warns it is possible that other neighborhoods in Miami-Dade County have active Zika transmission that is not yet apparent. In the past month, Zika cases were reported in Miamis Wynwood neighborhood.

The CDC's updated page on the Zika virus advises:

Pregnant women should not travel to these areas.

Pregnant women and their partners living in or traveling to these areas should follow steps to prevent mosquito bites.

Women and men who live in or traveled to these areas and who have a pregnant sex partner should use condoms or other barriers to prevent infection every time they have sex or not have sex during the pregnancy.

Pregnant women and their partners who are concerned about being exposed to Zika may want to consider postponing nonessential travel to all parts of Miami-Dade County.

All pregnant women in the United States should be assessed for possible Zika virus exposure and signs or symptoms of Zika during each prenatal care visit.

Pregnant women who live in or frequently travel to these areas should be tested in the first and second trimester of pregnancy.

or to these areas should be tested in the first and second trimester of pregnancy. Pregnant women with possible Zika exposure and signs or symptoms of Zika should be tested for Zika.

Pregnant women who traveled to or had unprotected sex with a partner that traveled to or lives in these areas should talk to their healthcare provider and should be tested for Zika.

Last week, CDC added Cayman Islands to the list of travel notices for Zika.

Related Articles