http://www.anorak.co.uk/432444/news/culture-kalash-pakistani-tribe-doesnt-like-muslim-migrants.html
202
20
Culture Kalash: Pakistani tribe doesn’t like Muslim migrants

There is trouble in Pakistan. The Kalash tribe is threatened:

Hidden up in the mountains near Pakistan’s border with Afghanistan, the Kalash tribe loves homemade wine and whiskey, dances for days at colorful festivals, and practices a religion that holds that God has spirits and messengers who speak through nature… But over the past century, Muslims from modern-day Pakistan and Afghanistan began moving in. Now villagers say their Kalash culture and religion are threatened by forced conversions, robberies and assaults.

New arrivals not wanted by locals. The BBC says the Kalash was founded by settling armies of Alexander the Great. Adding:

“Unlike most of Pakistan, where even eye contact between unrelated men and women can be taboo, the Kalash express themselves freely. Children of both sexes play together and women breastfeed in public.”

Right-on!

CNN has more:

Loveless liaisons hold no appeal for the spirited Kalasha women: “We choose our husbands, and if they don’t treat us well, or it doesn’t work out, we can leave and find a new partner,” says Gul, as her two friends, teenage mothers Farida and Asmar, nod and blush.

Back to the issue:

“We are scared,” said Yasir Kalash, the manager of a hotel here in Pakistan’s northwestern Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province. “They capture our lands, our pastures and our forests, and sometimes take our goats and women … “We are afraid in the next few years we will be finished.”

In 2009, the Telegraph reported:

While Sikhs, Hindus, and Christians were slowly driven out of Pakistan’s North West Frontier Province by Muslim militants, the Kalash were free to drink their own distilled spirits and smoke cannabis. But the militant maulanas of the Taliban have finally caught up with them.

If you need to forcibly convert anyone to your beliefs, you are wrong.

Time to revisit Christopher Hitchens’ 10 Commandments for 21st Century living:

I: Do not condemn people on the basis of their ethnicity or color.

II: Do not ever use people as private property.

III: Despise those who use violence or the threat of it in sexual relations.

IV: Hide your face and weep if you dare to harm a child.

V: Do not condemn people for their inborn nature.

VI: Be aware that you too are an animal and dependent on the web of nature, and think and act accordingly.

VII: Do not imagine that you can escape judgment if you rob people with a false prospectus rather than with a knife.

VIII: Turn off that fucking cell phone.

IX: Denounce all jihadists and crusaders for what they are: psychopathic criminals with ugly delusions.

X: Be willing to renounce any god or any religion if any holy commandments should contradict any of the above.

Amen.

Anorak

Posted: 20th, August 2016 | In: Key Posts, News Comment | Follow the Comments on our RSS feed: RSS 2.0 | TrackBack | Permalink