http://www.owensoundsuntimes.com/2016/03/09/karen-ann-bridge-named-woman-of-distinction
203
20
PORT ELGIN -

When comedian Martha Chaves lamented “I am getting long in the tooth,” at the International Women's Day (IWD) celebrations in Port Elgin, March 8, Karen Ann Bridge instantly threw up her hand and quipped, “I can fix that.”

Bridge would have made good on her offer, had Chaves' dental problem not been figurative: she had recently graduated, at age 52, from Dentistry at the University of Western Ontario.

It’s this can-do attitude that earned Bridge the Woman of Distinction Award at the IWD celebration hosted by Women’s House Serving Bruce and Grey in Port Elgin, March 8.

An enthusiastic crowd of over 175, including approximately a dozen men, gathered at the Lakeshore Recreation Hall for the fundraising gala.

Bridge provided the evening's highlight - an inspiring address outlining the struggles and triumphs that led to her new career as a dentist at Lakeview Dental Services in Kincardine.

In her moving speech, Bridge briefly mentioned her troubled first marriage, and her then-husband’s announcement shortly after they wed that, “he now owned me.” Rising above that challenge, she became a single mother, and pursued a higher education after having worked as a dental hygienist.

Bridge said after struggling through her first year of university, she enrolled full-time at Saugeen District Secondary School, the high school she graduated from in the 80's, to brush up on academic fundamentals. There, she found herself a “full-time [student] with my friends' kids,” she laughed.

After a year, she returned to university, where she earned an Honours Bachelor of Science Degree and a Masters in Physiology from UWO, completing her Schulich Dental Clinician-Scientist (DCS) program, a dual degree, in 2015. She was awarded the Dr. John C. McLister Service Award for her commitment, leadership and service to her fellow students, the faculty, and staff at Western.

In an interview at the event, Bridge said she's “a Port Elgin girl,” having moved here when she was 12 from Sarnia.

Bridge said “There's so many astounding women that do so many things for this community; I am absolutely humbled and shocked by winning this award.”

Bridge accredits her achievements partly with “having a vision of who I wanted to be as a woman, and what my soul was telling me about what a healthy relationship is and what love truly is.”

Bridge said an incident with an abused woman last fall made her wonder, “Do abusers withhold access to dental care as well?” and now, she has a new vision of “...creating a network of dentists working...in conjunction with local women's houses to provide victims of domestic abuse with [the] dental care they deserve. To assist victims in regaining their oral health, their appearance, their self-esteem, and their confidence.”

Her advice to young women is “Don't let anybody say you can't do this and you can't do that. Learning is hard work and you have to do it with vigour; ...and if you fail at a course, or you struggle with a course, get the help that you need, repeat the course, don't give up.”

Bridge said what helped her keep going was the thought that “Ten years is going to go by whether I do this or not; so ten years from now I'll either be a dentist, or I'll be stuck in the same spot being unhappy...just do it.”

Women of all ages attended the annual event. Safa Siddiqui, 23, of Port Elgin is an Electrical Engineer at Bruce Power. Siddiqui said “People don't understand that women are more successful now than they were 50 years ago. ...Some of the CEO's of the biggest companies are women, and people undermine that so much because they're not men.”

She added “Me and two of my friends are the only women in engineering on my floor at Bruce Power.”

Siddiqui said she was one of very few women in her engineering class at Ryerson University, and it was there that she learned about the Dec. 6 massacre of 14 female engineering students at École Polytechnique in Montreal.

She said it was important to her to acknowledge after graduation, “We did this for us, and we did this for the future generation of engineers and it's not that men are the only one who can do this. ...We are strong women, and why don't we show the world what we can do?”

Helen Wuerth, 87, accompanied her friend Yvonne Keenan, 78, both from Port Elgin. Keenan said, “I've celebrated IWD for probably 30 years.”

The evening began with Julia Ferrier, 12, of Kincardine, speaking about how boys treat girls in her peer group, often pressuring them into unwanted behaviours or treating them like “dolls” that they can “do whatever they want with.”

Dinner followed, then MC Penny Forbeck, a former Board member of Women's House, conducted a live auction followed by a trivia game.

Professional comedians Martha Chaves and Judy Croon cracked up the appreciative audience members, who wrapped up the evening by singing the historic IWD anthem, “Bread and Roses” written in 1912 by a woman to protest sweatshop conditions for women and children in New York.

In 2015, Women's House responded to 9,671 crisis and support calls (up from 1,670 in the previous year) and served 675 women and 104 children.

For more information about Women's House Serving Bruce & Grey visit www.whsbg.on.ca