http://www.tngovwatch.org/the-10282016-jihad-watch-daily-digest-germany-christian-refugees-flee-migrant-camp-as-muslims-threaten-to-behead-unbelievers/
202
20
Please use this link to

, do not use your email client to forward, as they may inadvertently unsubscribe you.

HuffPo Germany: “Of course everything in Europe should be in Arabic for refugees”

By Robert Spencer on Oct 27, 2016 05:04 pm

Of course it should. After all, who’s in charge here? “HuffPo Germany: All Signs in Europe Should Be in Arabic,” by Chris Tomlinson, Breitbart, October 25, 2016: A Syrian migrant teen has demanded that all signs and products in Europe should be labelled in Arabic to make migrants feel more welcome. Aras Bacho moved to […]

Read in browser »

AFDI sues London taxis for Sharia censorship

By Robert Spencer on Oct 27, 2016 04:46 pm

We are moving forward with our fraud suit in London. A message from Pamela Geller: Anti-Sharia Ads Censored On London Transport My human rights organization, the American Freedom Defense Initiative, has filed suit in the United Kingdom – again. We are fighting for freedom there harder than most Brits. Back in June I reported that […]

Read in browser »

Hugh Fitzgerald: “Meet Your Muslim Neighbors”

By Hugh Fitzgerald on Oct 27, 2016 02:57 pm

Ever since 9/11, mosques and “Islamic centers” have been conducting campaigns of determined “outreach” to non-Muslims. The point of this “outreach” is to present Islam as the least threatening of faiths, one which has been too often misunderstood and its adherents unfairly maligned, and those adherents are only too glad to clear up misconceptions about […]

Read in browser »

Germany: Christian refugees flee migrant camp as Muslims threaten to behead “unbelievers”

By Robert Spencer on Oct 27, 2016 12:24 pm

“When you meet the unbelievers, strike the necks” — Qur’an 47:4 Did anyone really think that the Qur’an wouldn’t apply in Europe, and even in German migrant camps? “Christian refugees threatened with beheading for being ‘unbelievers’ by Muslim migrants,” by Rebecca Perring, Express, October 25, 2016: CHRISTIAN refugees were forced to flee a migrant camp […]

Read in browser »

Muslim Ex-National Guard member pleads guilty to trying to join the Islamic State

By Robert Spencer on Oct 27, 2016 12:06 pm

His membership in the National Guard didn’t override his attachment to the caliphate. Why that is so is a matter of indifference to authorities, but if they really want to prevent this sort of thing from happening again, that is exactly the question they should be asking. “Ex-National Guard member pleads guilty to terror charge,” […]

Read in browser »

Muslim brothers from Michigan released after being arrested for jihad terror plot in Tunisia

By Robert Spencer on Oct 27, 2016 08:57 am

“According to Tunisia Live, the brothers have been living in the north African country of Tunisia for about a year, and police recently found jihadist content and plans to build bombs on their laptops….According to reports, they’ve been released from jail tonight, because there’s no evidence directly linking them to a terror plot.” Very well. […]

Read in browser »

Germany: Non-Muslim primary school students forced to chant “Allahu akbar” and “There is no god but Allah”

By Robert Spencer on Oct 27, 2016 08:43 am

Preparing the youngsters for life in Angela Merkel’s Brave New Germany. “Fury as German primary school ‘forces’ children to chant ‘Allahu Akbar’ in Muslim prayer,” by Zoe Efstathiou, Express, October 27, 2016: PUPILS at a primary school were forced to chant “Allahu Akhbar” and “there is no God but Allah”, an appalled father has claimed. […]

Read in browser »

In libelous new “report,” SPLC equates foes of jihad terror with those who commit jihad massacres

By Robert Spencer on Oct 27, 2016 08:22 am

The objective of this libelous new report from the hard-Left money-making and incitement machine the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC) is made plain within it: “Before you book a spokesperson from an anti-Muslim extremist group or quote them in a story, research their background — detailed in this in-depth guide to 15 of the most […]

Read in browser »

Kenya: Muslims murder 12 non-Muslims sleeping in hotel, as “part of a campaign to kill ‘unbelievers’”

By Robert Spencer on Oct 27, 2016 07:20 am

Not that this has anything to do with Islam. No doubt John Kerry and Pope Francis are on their way to Mandera right now to explain to al-Shabab how they’re misunderstanding the religion of peace. “Extremist group Shabab raids Kenyan border town and massacres teachers,” by Robyn Dixon, Los Angeles Times, October 25, 2016: The […]

Read in browser »

Robert Spencer in FrontPage: Realism About the Jihad Threat in Oklahoma

By Robert Spencer on Oct 27, 2016 05:20 am

Oklahoma State Rep. John Bennett ventures where few dare to tread. My latest in FrontPage: In an age of near-universal denial and willful ignorance at the highest levels about the ideological roots, nature and magnitude of the jihad threat, it is as unusual as it is refreshing to find lawmakers at any level who are […]

Read in browser »