http://nation.com.pk/national/28-Sep-2016/water-treaty-revocation-to-be-an-act-of-war
138
13
ISLAMABAD - Adviser to PM on Foreign Affairs Sartaj Aziz yesterday warned revocation of Indus Water Treaty could be taken as an act of war or hostility against Pakistan.

“Pakistan is considering informing the P-5 countries and international community in case of any violation,” the adviser to the PM said, responding to call-attention notice moved by PTI MNAs in the National Assembly. He added violation of Indus Water Treaty would be tantamount to increase risk of war and hostilities between the two nuclear countries.

He was of the view that if India interrupted water flow into Pakistan as an upper riparian state, it would violate Indus Water Treaty. It would also set a regional state practice under which an international law could serve as precedence for others, he added.

He asserted the Indian act might also provide China with a justification to consider suspension of water of Indian’s Brahmaputra River.

Aziz, responding to questions, said Pakistan would not accept Indian aggression in any form and any step for disrupting water flow. He warned suspension of water flow into Pakistan would pertain to considerable risk of war and hostilities.

“India feels pressure due to our diplomatic onslaught and raising voice on the grave human rights violations in Indian-occupied Kashmir, besides supporting the right to self-determination for Kashmiri people in accordance with the UN Security Council resolutions,” he said.

About the threat to the treaty by India, he quoted the World Bank as a ‘guarantor’ in case of any violation. He further said the World Bank had facilitated this treaty and its role was defined in the treaty in case of violation by any party.

PTI’s Shireen Mazari said the World Bank was not a guarantor, but a facilitator in this treaty.

When questioned why the prime minister did not mention Indian spy Kulbhushan Yadav in his speech, he said the incumbent government was preparing a dossier on this issue. “Just giving a reference in speech is not enough. The dossier will be sent to the UN and other countries on the matter,” he added.

To another question about the IWT, he said the Indus Water Treaty would continue to be in force until modified by both the countries after an understanding. The treaty offered no unilateral exit provision or revocation, he added.

“There is also an arbitration mechanism provided in the Indus Water Treaty to resolve disputes within its mechanism,” he said, reading a statement before answering the question of the call-attention notice.

He further read out that the IWT survived wars of 1965 and 1971 between Pakistan and India and was not even suspended during Kargil and Siachen conflicts.

“The treaty is quoted as the most successful water treaty between the two countries and its revocation can be taken as an act of war or a hostile act against Pakistan,” he said.

He said it was a highly irresponsible attitude on the part of India to even think of revoking this treaty as a unilateral revocation could pose a threat to Pakistan and its economy.

“This Indian act can be taken as a breach of international peace and hence giving Pakistan a good reason to approach the UNSC on this issue,” he said.

Later, the house also passed a motion condemning the Indian claim in the UNGA about Jammu and Kashmir being its integral part.

The resolution, moved by PPP parliamentary leader Naveed Qamar, condemned the false Indian claim in the United Nations General Assembly about Jammu and Kashmir that it was integral part of India.

It stated the indian external affairs minister, in a blatantly hostile speech at the 71st session of the UNGA, ignored earlier Indian admission of Jammu and Kashmir as a disputed territory.

“It is a fact that the Jammu and Kashmir issue is still on the agenda of the UNGA and Kashmir is universally accepted a disputed territory,” the house held.

The house also rejected the parallels drawn between Jammu and Kashmir, a recognised disputed territory, and Balochistan which is an integral part of Pakistan. “This house warns all foreign perpetrators of terrorism inside Pakistan to look towards their own policies of terror funding and terror peddling,” the resolution stated.

The house affirmed the Modi government had a history of threats with the misguided belief that Pakistan would give up supporting innocent Kashmiris being butchered by Indian forces.

“We believe peace and progress is dependent upon good neighborly relations and the only way forward is constructive dialogue and not current threats being issued by the Indian prime minister to unilaterally terminate the Indus Water Treaty,” the resolution stated.

The house resolved the hostile environment being perpetuated by the current Indian government and its apparent war hysteria would not be in the interests of the region.