http://www.nairaland.com/3109576/sheikh-zakzaky-court-hearing-slated
203
20
Nairaland Forum / Nairaland / General / Politics / Sheikh Zakzaky Court Hearing Slated For May 18 (3832 Views)

#ondodecides2016: Appeal Court Hearing Updates / Abia Governorship Election Supreme Court Hearing & Possible Judgment / Graphic: Picture Of Bleeding Sheikh Zakzaky With Bullet Wounds And Swollen Face (1) (2) (3) (4)

(0) (1) (Reply) (Go Down)

Sheikh Zakzaky Court Hearing Slated For May 18



“The Movement will follow the laid down rules and procedures in seeking redress and no amount of intimidation and provocation will deter it from the path of truth and justice."



by SaharaReporters, New York May 16, 2016



The first court hearing on the kidnapping and maltreatment of Sheikh Ibrahim Zakzaky, the leader of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN), will commence on May 18, 2016 at the Federal High Court in Kaduna State.



Sheikh Zakzaky was abducted and abused by Nigerian military troops in the midst of the Zaria massacre, in which at least 347 IMN members were killed by the military.



In a press release issued by IMN spokesman Ibraheem Musa, the organization stated that it was seeking justice and redress for the inhumane treatment of its leader through the federal courts rather than the Judicial Commission of Inquiry (JCI) established by the Kaduna State government to investigate the massacre. The group dismissed the JCI as a “Kangaroo Commission” designed to indict the IMN and protect the military from prosecution.



The IMN further stated that the government is using the Department of State Service (DSS) to intimidate Femi Falana, the prominent human rights lawyer leading the IMN legal team. According to the IMN, the DSS has been pressuring Mr. Falana and the IMN to seek redress in the JCI rather than in court



“The Movement will follow the laid down rules and procedures in seeking redress and no amount of intimidation and provocation will deter it from the path of truth and justice,” the group said in its statement.



The IMN added that its decision to take the matter to court was made by Sheikh Zakzaky and not Mr. Falana, as the DSS has alleged.



To date, the federal government has failed to take effective, concrete steps towards investigating December’s massacre and prosecuting those responsible.



The Kaduna State government recently admitted that it secretly buried 347 victims, corroborating earlier reports by human rights organizations. According to such reports, women, children, and the elderly were among the deceased, with many being burned alive, stabbed with bayonets, and shot at close range.



The IMN alleged that over 850 members remain missing. After the massacre, hundreds of IMN members were abducted and detained in unknown facilities, according to the group.



The organization hopes that Wednesday’s court hearing will finally bring justice to these victims. In the mean time, the IMN has called for the immediate release of their leader and other detained IMN members.



http://saharareporters.com/2016/05/16/sheikh-zakzaky-court-hearing-slated-may-18 “The Movement will follow the laid down rules and procedures in seeking redress and no amount of intimidation and provocation will deter it from the path of truth and justice."The first court hearing on the kidnapping and maltreatment of Sheikh Ibrahim Zakzaky, the leader of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN), will commence on May 18, 2016 at the Federal High Court in Kaduna State.Sheikh Zakzaky was abducted and abused by Nigerian military troops in the midst of the Zaria massacre, in which at least 347 IMN members were killed by the military.In a press release issued by IMN spokesman Ibraheem Musa, the organization stated that it was seeking justice and redress for the inhumane treatment of its leader through the federal courts rather than the Judicial Commission of Inquiry (JCI) established by the Kaduna State government to investigate the massacre. The group dismissed the JCI as a “Kangaroo Commission” designed to indict the IMN and protect the military from prosecution.The IMN further stated that the government is using the Department of State Service (DSS) to intimidate Femi Falana, the prominent human rights lawyer leading the IMN legal team. According to the IMN, the DSS has been pressuring Mr. Falana and the IMN to seek redress in the JCI rather than in court“The Movement will follow the laid down rules and procedures in seeking redress and no amount of intimidation and provocation will deter it from the path of truth and justice,” the group said in its statement.The IMN added that its decision to take the matter to court was made by Sheikh Zakzaky and not Mr. Falana, as the DSS has alleged.To date, the federal government has failed to take effective, concrete steps towards investigating December’s massacre and prosecuting those responsible.The Kaduna State government recently admitted that it secretly buried 347 victims, corroborating earlier reports by human rights organizations. According to such reports, women, children, and the elderly were among the deceased, with many being burned alive, stabbed with bayonets, and shot at close range.The IMN alleged that over 850 members remain missing. After the massacre, hundreds of IMN members were abducted and detained in unknown facilities, according to the group.The organization hopes that Wednesday’s court hearing will finally bring justice to these victims. In the mean time, the IMN has called for the immediate release of their leader and other detained IMN members.

This FTC is dedicated to all the atheist, gay, tranny and tranny wannabe, les so that they may "FEAR GOD." Issokay! Anambra ppl be like *Bughali na ebughali anyi" seriously! 1 Like

Forgive their mistake. Na im gemu cause confusion.

Is it only me or someone else noticed that making front page is pretty easy lately....

C

.

El Zarkazy I feel your pains... Too bad the court will still find you guilty 2 Likes

I don't know y but I jes pity this man this case won't b easy.. I believe he and his crew hv learnt their lessons clearly but some one is supposed to be held accountable for the lost of lives and property.. there were multiple ways d army could hv dealt with them without killing any.. 1 Like

Buhari Pls pardon Sheikh El-Zarkazy.

who's he

Not dat am in support wit wat d NA did but wat dey did was d right call, dis man have been running a parallel gov't in zaria city for more than 20yrs oppressing citizen of zaria wit his goons any how they like n he meet his water loom at d right time 3 Likes

Come and see Ipod yoots support Hausa Muslims this time around 2 Likes

Cool move

This is truly man's inhumanity to man. Nigerian military kill without thinking of how their own lives would come to an end. God would judge any and every man responsible whether directly or indirectly for taking innocent lives. 1 Like

this is already a lost cause, this man was a threat to the peace and stability of Zaria and kaduna as a whole, he and his so called followers got what they deserved, so they should please let us hear word. it's just a pity that the innocent had to suffer for their sin 2 Likes

abnur14:

I don't know y but I jes pity this man this case won't b easy.. I believe he and his crew hv learnt their lessons clearly but some one is supposed to be held accountable for the lost of lives and property.. there were multiple ways d army could hv dealt with them without killing any.. then you do not know these people, if they were not dealt with in this way then it could have turned into something else..these people really overstepped their boundary. then you do not know these people, if they were not dealt with in this way then it could have turned into something else..these people really overstepped their boundary. 2 Likes

I luv wat d army did

ButterFrost212:



then you do not know these people, if they were not dealt with in this way then it could have turned into something else..these people really overstepped their boundary. jah bless u my brother, u are d only 1 making sense hia, any 1 DAT av been to d north will know DAT dz pple are pure animal in human form jah bless u my brother, u are d only 1 making sense hia, any 1 DAT av been to d north will know DAT dz pple are pure animal in human form 1 Like

ButterFrost212:

this is already a lost cause, this man was a threat to the peace and stability of Zaria and kaduna as a whole, he and his so called followers got what they deserved, so they should please let us hear word. See stupid.ity for this cold Tuesday Monday. guy go take mai shai make you come back. Dan banza See stupid.ity for this cold Tuesday Monday. guy go take mai shai make you come back. Dan banza

Aspireahead:



See stupid.ity for this cold Tuesday Monday. guy go take mai shai make you come back. Dan banza kai ne Dan banza..if you do not like my opinion, do not comment on it, it's that easy. kai ne Dan banza..if you do not like my opinion, do not comment on it, it's that easy.

koboko69:

Come and see Ipod yoots support Hausa Muslims this time around Those guyz are so confused n frustrated that them their self don't know wat they want again Those guyz are so confused n frustrated that them their self don't know wat they want again 2 Likes

I really don't know which sides I should pick

ButterFrost212:

this is already a lost cause, this man was a threat to the peace and stability of Zaria and kaduna as a whole, he and his so called followers got what they deserved, so they should please let us hear word. "They got what they deserved" because you and your family members were not among the 347 people (including women and children) murdered extra-judiciously by the unprofessional Nigerian Army right? The danger of not speaking up against evil and injustice to others is that when it happens to us we won't have anybody to speak for us. "They got what they deserved" because you and your family members were not among the 347 people (including women and children) murdered extra-judiciously by the unprofessional Nigerian Army right? The danger of not speaking up against evil and injustice to others is that when it happens to us we won't have anybody to speak for us. 3 Likes

ButterFrost212:



then you do not know these people, if they were not dealt with in this way then it could have turned into something else..these people really overstepped their boundary. What do you mean that they overstepped their boundary? So murdering 347 people and burying them in shallow graves is right to you? What do you mean that they overstepped their boundary? So murdering 347 people and burying them in shallow graves is right to you? 1 Like

tobiasbeecher:



"They got what they deserved" because you and your family members were not among the 347 people (including women and children) murdered extra-judiciously by the unprofessional Nigerian Army right? The danger of not speaking up against evil and injustice to others is that when it happens to us we won't have anybody to speak for us. calm down, killing innocent people was definitely wrong. maybe I didn't read that part of the post, but if you have lived in Zaria you will find that these people were fast becoming something like boko haram..they were not peace loving people, and people who love trouble always get trouble. but of course the innocent ones did not deserve to die, I take that back calm down, killing innocent people was definitely wrong. maybe I didn't read that part of the post, but if you have lived in Zaria you will find that these people were fast becoming something like boko haram..they were not peace loving people, and people who love trouble always get trouble. but of course the innocent ones did not deserve to die, I take that back

ButterFrost212:



then you do not know these people, if they were not dealt with in this way then it could have turned into something else..these people really overstepped their boundary. I know them quite well but I still don't believe they should b massacred like that.. and d army didn't Jes target shite people buh the whole hussainiyah whereas some residents there are not part of d group.. I know them quite well but I still don't believe they should b massacred like that.. and d army didn't Jes target shite people buh the whole hussainiyah whereas some residents there are not part of d group..

koboko69:

Come and see Ipod yoots support Hausa Muslims this time around Of course the the right thinking ones will be tongue-tied on this issue for obvious reasons.. Of course the the right thinking ones will be tongue-tied on this issue for obvious reasons..

tobiasbeecher:



"They got what they deserved" because you and your family members were not among the 347 people (including women and children) murdered extra-judiciously by the unprofessional Nigerian Army right? The danger of not speaking up against evil and injustice to others is that when it happens to us we won't have anybody to speak for us. This is the provision of the constitution

(2) A person shall not be regarded as having been deprived of his life in contravention of this section, if he dies as a result of the use, to such extent and in such circumstances as are permitted by law, of such force as is reasonably necessary—



(a) for the defence of any person from unlawful violence or for the defence of property ;



(b) in order to effect a lawful arrest or to prevent the escape of a person lawfully detained ; or



(c) for the purpose of supressing a riot, insurrection or mutiny ;





Stop making blind argument in support of the Shiite, if they turn out to be like boko haram tomorrow, it is people like you who will point accusing fingers at the government. This is the provision of the constitution(2) A person shall not be regarded as having been deprived of his life in contravention of this section, if he dies as a result of the use, to such extent and in such circumstances as are permitted by law, of such force as is reasonably necessary—(a) for the defence of any person from unlawful violence or for the defence of property ;(b) in order to effect a lawful arrest or to prevent the escape of a person lawfully detained ; or(c) for the purpose of supressing a riot, insurrection or mutiny ;Stop making blind argument in support of the Shiite, if they turn out to be like boko haram tomorrow, it is people like you who will point accusing fingers at the government.

wasak:



This is the provision of the constitution

(2) A person shall not be regarded as having been deprived of his life in contravention of this section, if he dies as a result of the use, to such extent and in such circumstances as are permitted by law, of such force as is reasonably necessary—



(a) for the defence of any person from unlawful violence or for the defence of property ;



(b) in order to effect a lawful arrest or to prevent the escape of a person lawfully detained ; or



(c) for the purpose of supressing a riot, insurrection or mutiny ;





Stop making blind argument in support of the Shiite, if they turn out to be like boko haram tomorrow, it is people like you who will point accusing fingers at the government. It clearly shows that you have wasted your parents resources in the name of sending you to whatever wack school you must have attended. Stop abusing the constitution Mr. man, you're totally ignorant as concerned the provision you shamelessly quoted. So the provision you quoted also said that the army should go to people's houses and murder them extra judiciously irrespective of innocent women and children among them? Your problem is that you lack understanding of the provisions of the constitution you quoted, hence you shamelessly brought it up to justify your barbaric opinion. You're not alright Mr man It clearly shows that you have wasted your parents resources in the name of sending you to whatever wack school you must have attended. Stop abusing the constitution Mr. man, you're totally ignorant as concerned the provision you shamelessly quoted. So the provision you quoted also said that the army should go to people's houses and murder them extra judiciously irrespective of innocent women and children among them? Your problem is that you lack understanding of the provisions of the constitution you quoted, hence you shamelessly brought it up to justify your barbaric opinion. You're not alright Mr man

everywhere I go to especially the bridges on muritala mohammed way I see scribbled writing of free zakazay and don't free zakazay.



so this is the face of the man they want free at all cost. someone who has been terrorising residents of kaduna with his doctrines.



oriegwu.