http://www.laht.com/article.asp?ArticleId=2405287&CategoryId=14091
202
20
HOME | Mexico

Mexican Police Find Dozens of Kidnapped Migrants after Blast at House



MEXICO CITY – An explosion at a house in Reynosa, located across the Rio Grande from McAllen, Texas, tipped Mexican authorities off to an organization that was holding at least 60 Central American migrants captive, the Tamaulipas Coordination Group said.



Five migrants sustained burns in the blast on Monday and three of them, all from Guatemala, had to be hospitalized, the joint state-federal agency said in a statement.



One of the injured migrants told officials that the group had been held captive for more than a week and nearly everyone at the safe house in the border city’s Bermudez district was from Guatemala.



Tens of thousands of Central Americans undertake the hazardous journey across Mexico each year on their way to the United States.



The trek is a dangerous one, with criminals and corrupt Mexican officials preying on the migrants.



Gangs kidnap, exploit and murder migrants, who are often targeted in extortion schemes, Mexican officials say.



In 2010, 72 migrants from Honduras, El Salvador, Guatemala, Brazil and Ecuador were murdered in Tamaulipas.



Mexican marines found the migrants’ bodies at a ranch in the city of San Fernando on Aug. 24, 2010, marking the worst massacre of migrants in Mexico’s history.



MEXICO CITY – An explosion at a house in Reynosa, located across the Rio Grande from McAllen, Texas, tipped Mexican authorities off to an organization that was holding at least 60 Central American migrants captive, the Tamaulipas Coordination Group said.Five migrants sustained burns in the blast on Monday and three of them, all from Guatemala, had to be hospitalized, the joint state-federal agency said in a statement.One of the injured migrants told officials that the group had been held captive for more than a week and nearly everyone at the safe house in the border city’s Bermudez district was from Guatemala.Tens of thousands of Central Americans undertake the hazardous journey across Mexico each year on their way to the United States.The trek is a dangerous one, with criminals and corrupt Mexican officials preying on the migrants.Gangs kidnap, exploit and murder migrants, who are often targeted in extortion schemes, Mexican officials say.In 2010, 72 migrants from Honduras, El Salvador, Guatemala, Brazil and Ecuador were murdered in Tamaulipas.Mexican marines found the migrants’ bodies at a ranch in the city of San Fernando on Aug. 24, 2010, marking the worst massacre of migrants in Mexico’s history. Enter your email address to subscribe to free headlines (and great cartoons so every email has a happy ending!) from the Latin American Herald Tribune:

