http://bulawayo24.com/index-id-opinion-sc-columnist-byo-87968.html
202
20
Opinion / Columnist

Bhasikiti's basket of sour grapes

Former Masvingo Provincial Affairs minister Kudakwashe Bhasikiti has called on President Robert Mugabe to apologize to all expelled ZANU PF members including himself as he is also one of the victims. He is arguing that the expulsions were unwarranted and therefore it was of no use to ask the victims to appeal after going through a humiliating ordeal. The expulsion has thrown Bhasikiti into political oblivion.



Bhasikiti was expelled from ZANU PF alongside 186 others on allegations of plotting President Robert Mugabe's ouster with former Vice President Joice Mujuru. The former vice President has since formed the opposition Zimbabwe People First party, with Bhasikiti as one of the top officials. Bhasikiti is also urging President Mugabe to apologise for the 1980s Gukurahundi massacres, where it is said about 20 000 civilians were killed.



It would be an oversimplification for a rather complex issue to say that President Mugabe should apologise to those expelled from ZANU PF. If a person is expelled from the party and he or she forms another party then he should concentrate on his party. Bhasikiti should concentrate on his little known party rather than concentrating on ZANU PF and President Mugabe. His current attempts at slighting President Mugabe's economic policies are a case of sour grapes.



The real point is that Bhasikiti once expressed admiration and envy for the leadership qualities of President Mugabe. Bhasikiti is not sincere as the man was fired from the ruling party; that is the reason why he is now saying Mugabe must apologize to all those fired from ZANU PF. Before Bhasikiti was fired unceremoniously, he was an enthusiastic hero worshipper of President Mugabe but now he is singing a different tune. This now becomes a fascinating paradox and it shows that the man cannot be taken seriously.



We know that Bhasikiti wants to come back to ZANU PF given the opportunity to do so; of which we doubt very much as we know that President Mugabe is a man of principles.



Therefore the man is unlikely to be readmitted. When Bhasikiti was enjoying power and the comfort of ZANU PF he did not mention anything to do with the Gukurahundi era. He is now talking about it after he has been expelled from the party he much cherished in the past.

Bhasikiti has been hit where it hurts most; to be expelled from the party where his bread and butter came from. The man is now languishing in the political wilderness; that is why he is hallucinating. We cannot take seriously this buffoon of dubious revolutionary credentials. Woes to you Bhasikiti, for you are like a whitewashed tombstone which is full of extortions and rapacity.





Source - Stewart Murewa