http://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/world/omar-mateen-was-hiv-negative-user-of-steroids-autopsy/ar-BBuolpV
202
20
© MySpace via AP Omar Mateen. The gunman who massacred 49 people in an Orlando night club last month was HIV-negative at the time of his death but showed signs of longtime steroid use, two U.S. law enforcement officials said Friday.

The autopsy of Omar Mateen, 29, suggested he was a habitual user of steroids, The Los Angeles Times reported.

Steroids can cause significant emotional shifts in some people, including intense anger, known as ‘roid rage. But it was too early to tell if the drugs played a role in Mateen’s bloody assault June 12, the officials told the newspaper.

More toxicology tests have been ordered to confirm the medical examiner’s suspicions, the officials said.

The autopsy revealed changes to Mateen’s body that suggested he’d been taking the drugs, which spur muscle growth.

If confirmed, the finding would match what friends and family told reporters in the wake of the horrific slaughter carried out by Mateen in Pulse, a gay nightclub he was said to frequent.

© Provided by New York Daily News The autopsy of Omar Mateen, 29, suggested he was a habitual user of steroids, The Los Angeles Times reported. - Gerardo Mora/Getty Images

His ex-wife Sitora Yusufiy said he had a history of steroid use.

Coworkers and neighbors said they often saw the security guard in the local Gold’s Gym pumping iron.

Investigators have been combing through Mateen’s background to try and figure out why he burst into the club and began spraying bullets at innocent revelers.

Born in New York to Pakistani parents, Mateen had become radicalized through the Internet and pledged allegiance to Islamic State, the FBI said.

Rumors also swirled in the aftermath of the attacks that Mateen was gay and had been using online dating websites to try and hook up with men.

Officials have yet to comment on whether they have found any evidence to corroborate those claims — including allegations from one man who told Univision he had sex with Mateen after connecting with him online.

But the autopsy did confirm Mateen was HIV-negative at the time of his death, the officials told The Los Angeles Times.