http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3693650/Twitter-removes-string-posts-Islamic-extremists-glorifying-Nice-truck-massacre-celebrating-deaths-killed.html
202
20
Islamic militants took to other sites to spread sick posters in celebration

Twitter reacted rapidly to remove posts by Islamic militants glorifying the terrorist truck attack in Nice, after previously facing criticism for its handling of extremist propaganda.

In a rare round of praise for the company watchdog groups said it acted swiftly to delete Tweets praising the massacre within minutes.

Instead pro-attack supporters were forced to flood other sites such as secure messaging app Telegram to post sickening posters revelling in the deaths.

Violence in recent months has posed challenges to social media groups, yet Twitter 'moved with swiftness we have not seen before to erase pro-attack tweets within minutes,' according to a statement by Counter Extremism Project.

In a rare round of praise for Twitter watchdog groups said it acted swiftly to delete Tweets praising the Nice truck massacre within minutes

ISIS killer Mohamed Lahouaiej Bouhlel drove a truck through crowds of people watching fireworks on France's Bastille Day, leaving 84 dead.

The watchdog organisation stated over 50 Twitter accounts used the hashtag Nice in Arabic to praise the attack on the Promenade des Anglais in the port city.

Yet although 'it was the first time Twitter has reacted so efficiently,' said the counter-extremism group, in other online locations such as Telegram ISIS celebrated the carnage.

Fanatics uploaded sick posters to glorify the bloodbath. One showed the Eiffel Tower in flames and a knife-wielding jihadi alongside a message in Arabic.

Another stated the terrorists were heading to Berlin next, and one poster read 'Orlando was just the beginning', referring to the gunman who massacred 49 people in a Florida nightclub last month.

On Twitter many accounts appeared almost immediately after events in Nice , in a pattern similar to what was seen during the Paris and Brussels attacks.

Fanatics took to other sites to upload sick posters to glorify the bloodbath. One showed the Eiffel Tower in flames and a knife-wielding jihadi alongside a message in Arabic

Through unofficial channels ISIS supporters posted disgusting images revelling in deaths from the attack

Sick: One of the pro-attack images superimposed the head of French president François Hollande onto a man being grabbed by the throat by apparent ISIS fighters

Islamic state militants were not deterred from celebrating the attacks on the site, and made attempts to update their tactics.

During the massacre, pro-attack supporters were advised by the group to use the same hashtags used to sympathise with the victims, such as #PrayForNice, #NiceAttack and #Nice, so their tweets gained a wider audience.

But the company took robust action to respond with unusual alacrity, according to Rabbi Abraham Cooper, head of the Simon Wiesenthal Center's Digital Terrorism and Hate project, reports the Independent.

In a statement Twitter did not disclose information about the accounts it suspended, but said it bans terrorism on the website.

Facebook has also increased efforts to remove content that violates its terms of service, but also strives to be open to users trying to post important information.

The unfolding military coup in Turkey was at its early stages marked by social media restrictions, but the crackdown has now begun to ease.

One poster read 'Orlando was just the beginning', referring to the gunman who massacred 49 people in a Florida nightclub last month

In further pro-attack posters terrorists supporters claimed that they are heading to Berlin next

Many citizens were able to record live-stream videos of their situations and post tweets.

Both organisations played a significant role during the Arab Spring, where the capability to share uncensored and accurate information contributed to the overthrow of powerful dictatorships.

Facebook and Twitter continue to face the challenge of distinguishing between graphic images posted to glorify attacks, and those shared to document the events.

Facebook's 'community standards' explicitly ban 'terrorism' and related content promoting violence.

Pro-attack supporters used hashtags sympathising with victims such as #PrayForNice to gain wider audience

But Twitter reacted 'efficiently' to remove pro-attack posts according to Counter Extremism Project

But its graphic image policy is more nuanced and relies on users to report objectionable material to a team of human editors.

In a blog post last week about updated guidelines the company said: 'One of the most sensitive situations involves people sharing violent or graphic images of events taking place in the real world.

'In those situations, context and degree are everything. For instance, if a person witnessed a shooting, and used Facebook Live to raise awareness or find the shooter, we would allow it.

'However, if someone shared the same video to mock the victim or celebrate the shooting, we would remove the video.'