http://www.portalangop.co.ao/angola/en_us/noticias/internacional/2016/2/13/Vojislav-Seselj-acquitted-over-Balkans-war-crimes-charges,2ab9000c-ee0d-48f4-9c31-9093aaa8b97c.html
203
20
The UN war crimes court at The Hague (ICTY) said he bore no individual responsibility for the crimes.

Mr Seselj had denied the charges. In his first reaction, he said the court had reached the only verdict possible.

He was allowed to go to Belgrade in 2014 after being diagnosed with cancer and was not present in the courtroom.

He had even refused the tribunal's offer to follow the verdict by videolink.

He has been taking part in anti-government rallies ahead of Serbian parliamentary elections later this month.

"With this acquittal on all the nine counts of the indictment, the arrest warrant issued by the Appeals Chamber is rendered moot," said presiding judge Jean-Claude Antonetti.

"Vojislav Seselj is now a free man."

Mr Seselj was a close ally of late Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic. He served as Serbian deputy prime minister from 1998 to 2000.

He surrendered to the ICTY voluntarily in 2003. When the court sought to appoint a defence lawyer against his wishes, he went on hunger strike.

The indictment charged him with three counts of crimes against humanity and six of war crimes for inciting ethnic cleansing in Croatia, Bosnia and the Serbian province of Vojvodina in the period August 1991-September 1993.

When the trial finally opened in 2007, prosecutors argued he was criminally responsible for the murder, torture and deportation of non-Serbs as part of his project to create a "Greater Serbia".

They accused him of raising an army of volunteers who had committed "unspeakable crimes".

In long outbursts, Mr Seselj berated the tribunal, challenged its legitimacy - and regretted the fact that it could not pass a death sentence on him.

In 2014, the court decided to release him for treatment. Serbian doctors said at the time that he was suffering from cancer of the colon which had spread to his liver.

Since its establishment, the ICTY has indicted 161 persons.

Last week, it convicted former Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic of genocide and war crimes in the war in Bosnia. He was sentenced to 40 years in jail.

Gen Ratko Mladic, who commanded Bosnian Serb forces, is also awaiting his verdict at The Hague.

bbc