http://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-3815754/Imogen-Thomas-hands-adjusts-heaving-bosom-enjoying-soak-hot-tub-sunny-getaway-Las-Vegas.html
138
13
With two young daughters raise, Imogen Thomas has become accustomed to having her hands full of late.

And the former Miss Wales appeared to catch herself in a bit of a tangle on Thursday, when she was spotted adjusting her ample chest while wearing a pristine white bikini during her getaway to Las Vegas.

The 33-year-old brunette beauty stared intently at her chest as she made the most of the sunny Nevada climes while soaking in an outdoor hot tub.

Scroll down for video

Soaking up the sun: Imogen Thomas was spotted enjoying a soak in an outdoor hot tub in Las Vegas on Thursday

Her barely-there halterneck swimwear was embellished on the straps, giving her outfit an extra touch of pizazz, while she teamed it with stylish sunglasses and delicate jewellery.

And while she enjoyed her moment of basking in the sun, the star appeared to be glued to her phone, as she chatted away on it for an extended amount of time. She later teamed her bikini with a white-and-black cap from Beyoncé's Ivy Park range.

Earlier this year she released her own swimwear collection to great success - and was keen to try-on her creations in a series of recent selfies.

All that glitters...! The Welsh beauty's flattering two-piece of choice boasted embellished straps, adding a tough of pizazz

Hey dude! She perked up considerably when she appeared to spot somebody she knew while soaking up the sunshine

Curves: The former Big Brother star opted to wear a pristine white halterneck bikini, which highlighted her stunning curves

Shady lady: She shielded her eyes from the glorious Nevada desert sunshine with a stylish pair of tinted sunglasses

Golden girl: She accessorized with a gold body chain and matching bangle as she made the most of her day out in the sun

Lean back: She leaned back in the hot tub and appeared to be reflecting as she enjoyed some much-needed time off

The former Miss Wales took to her Instagram last month, to document herself trying on various two-pieces for her mini break - showing off her gorgeous womanly curves in the process.

Posing in the mirror, the mother-of-two looked incredible in an extremely low-cut white two-piece with glitzy gold embellishment on the bottoms and straps.

The top, held together by a single string, plunged straight down the centre of her bust, showcasing her ample breasts.

Keeping her hair away from her face in a tight plait, Imogen ensured all eyes were on her enviable hourglass figure and slender legs.

She nailed it! Her fingernails boasted white polish, giving her a perfect manicure that matched her pedicure

Keeping up with Kim: The star recently compared her changing shape after having two children to that of Kim Kardashian's

She means business! Earlier this year, Imogen released her own swimwear collection to great success

Model behaviour: The mother-of-two was keen to try on her swimwear creations in a series of recent selfies

Special announcement: Prior to jetting off to Las Vegas, she took to social media to announce her imminent trip

The season is the perfect reason: Welsh beauty Imogen's bikini range is aptly called Chasing Summer

Opting for flattering white, the Big Brother star enhanced her deeply bronzed skin, having already holidayed in Ibiza last month.

Clearly wanting to show off the skimpy number from her range, Imogen wrote: ''I'm off to Vegas for the wknd, this is the new south beach bikini #Vegas #vivalasvegas'

She also posted a selfie in a second bikini, giving fans a proper eyeful in the close-up shot.

Dressed in a burgundy bikini top with gold discs on the straps, Imogen displayed her plentiful assets and endless cleavage in full-frontal view of the camera.

In similar style, she wrote to followers: 'Trying on some bikinis for my wknd away! love this from @chasingsummeruk Of course'

Feeling Blue: The 33-year-old arrived at the pool wearing a white cap from Beyoncé's recently-released Ivy Park range

The big search: She was later seen having a rummage around in her stylish and colourful beach bag

Always glam: Despite lounging her day away in a hot tub, Imogen ensured she remained glam as she applied lip gloss

Flip-flops: her black flip-flops sat waiting for her at the edge of the pool as she continued to make the most of the sun

Taking chage: The beauty founded her swimwear line last year, on the basis of her own struggle during bikini shopping

Struggle: Her website explains that she decided to launch the range after failing to find a well-fitting bikini for curvier women

Covering her face with different pairs of aviator sunglasses in the shots, Imogen gave a flavour of the complete beachwear outfits she will be rocking by the pool in Sin City.

Imogen excitedly shared her new designs with her followers, having released her swimwear range Chasing Summer in time for summer.

The TV personality founded the company last year, on the basis of her own struggle during bikini shopping.

Her website explains that she decided to launch the range after failing to find a well-fitting bikini for a curvier woman.

So in love: Imogen has been in a longterm relationship with Australian businessman boyfriend Adam Horsley

The proudest of parents: The loving couple are proud parents of daughter Ariana, three, and Siera, nine months

Seeking advice: On Friday, she took to Twitter to ask her followers for tips on remedies for long haul flights

Not taking a break from social media? She appeared to be transfixed on her phone as she enjoyed her relaxing break

Let's face it...: Imogen also recenntly took to Twitter to ask her followers for facial recommendations in south-west London

It reads: 'The dream came true when she started jotting down different designs at night and making them into a reality today!'

The former Big Brother contestant is taking the Stateside break after a busy year, combining her time as a businesswoman with raising her two young daughters - Ariana, three, and Siera, nine months - who she shares with Australian businessman boyfriend Adam Horsley.

The star recently compared her changing shape after having two children to that of Kim Kardashian's in an interview to promote Bio Oil.

She said: 'I think all of my pregnancy weight has gone on my hips and bum.

'I feel like I have a similar shape to Kim Kardashian when she was pregnant, all in the hips and bum! My breasts have become bigger as well, they are really heavy!'

Me and my girls: The brunette beauty often takes to social media to share shots of her adorable daughters

It's good to talk: The star was back on her phone again, as she embarked on yet another phone call during her time in the sun

Ladt of the rings: She sported a pair of gold rings on her finger, giving her barely-there ensemble an extra touch of glamour

Charitable: As well as being a mother and businesswoman, Imogen has been known to devote much of her time to charity