http://www.travelpod.com/travel-blog-entries/ralphieboyo/13/1459878725/tpod.html
202
20
Tuesday, April 5th...We got up early, so Lynn could "Facetime" with her two good friends in Helena. It worked fine, as long as I wasn't on the WiFi at the same time. WiFi for us originates from my phone as a Hot Spot. The data here, as I mentioned, is only 3G so it slows things down.Our driver, Tully (toolie) R., showed up spot on at nine AM. He was driving a decent Jeep Wrangler. I took the back seat, so Lynn could do her best thing: interrogational skills. She listens well and asks pertinent questions. It worked.Tully took us to several ruins which were preserved and interesting. The amazing experience is just being on the floor of the canyon and looking up at the height and color of the walls. This was the big thing. After a bit, we stopped and he opened the top of the Jeep, so we could see even better.I took several photos and a few short videos, which I'll try to get posted this evening. It's a mighty slow process and often needs more than one attempt to get the posted, but, to me, well worth the effort. That's how we learn, by telling the story, and then showing the images. It works for me.The photo of the two on horseback chasing the deer, has an interesting story. According to our guide, they chased the deer until it collapsed and let it die putting corn pollen in it's airway. Thus they had a perfect deer hide with no weapon holes.We rode into the North Canyon, del Muerto, or Canyon of the Dead, named by the Spanish for a massacre of the Indians at a prior time. I say prior time, since the most notable massacre was led by Kit Carson in the 1860s when he was working for the Army. That is referred to as the Scorched Earth Campaign, where so many of the indigenous people were killed, their homes burned and their fruit trees cut down and burned. Fortunately, there are many hiding places in the canyons where many folks escaped death. We got this info from Tully and from other sources that I've read. Tully said that Kit Carson, himself, since he was afraid, did not enter the canyon due to fear for his life. He sent troops in his stead.Anyway, today's experience can't really be described in words, as I've said. It's more of a feeling thing. Feeling the quiet and seeing the images of these sacred places. Our guide was born and raised far up the North Canyon about four miles above where we made our turn around.Back home, we went into Burger King and had a bit of lunch. Now this is where I am, at the keyboard of the Mac. Remember, photos later, will be at www.flickr.com/photos/ralphieboyo . Photos, again, may not all be there until tomorrow eve...sorry.Thanks for hanging with us. We'll be moving tomorrow, Wednesday, to Bluff, Utah and investigating the bluffs and all nearby.