http://www.philstar.com:8080/headlines/2016/04/07/1570329/massacre-suspect-running-maguindanao-mayor-under-una
202
20
TALAYAN, Maguindanao, Philippines – A former local official charged in connection with the Maguindanao massacre in 2009 is among 19 local candidates surnamed Ampatuan running under the opposition United Nationalist Alliance (UNA).

Former Maguindanao vice governor Sajid Islam Ampatuan, who was allowed to post bail in connection with the multiple murder case filed against him, raised the hand of Vice President Jejomar Binay on Tuesday when he attended the proclamation rally of local UNA candidates in the province.

In his speech, Binay acknowledged the presence of local candidates, including Sajid Islam, his wife Shariff Saydona Mustapha Mayor Bai Zandria and his cousin Mamasapano Mayor Benzar Ampatuan.

Sajid Islam is running for mayor of Shariff Aguak, the provincial capital and known stronghold of the Ampatuans.

He is a son of the deceased Ampatuan clan patriarch Andal Sr., who was tagged as among the masterminds of the massacre.

His brothers include former Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao governor Zaldy, former Shariff Aguak mayor Anwar Sr. and former Datu Unsay mayor Andal Jr., who are all detained in connection with the massacre.

Headlines ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1

Sajid Islam is among 38 local candidates surnamed Ampatuan who are seeking elective posts in the province for the upcoming polls.

An initial list of candidates from the Commission on Elections showed half of the candidates, including Sajid Islam, are running under UNA.

They included two candidates for provincial board members, Norodin and Sarip, as well as four candidates for mayor: Sajid Islam for Shariff Aguak, Bai Zandria for Shariff Saydona Mustapha, Benzar for Mamasapano and Bai for the town of Datu Hoffer Ampatuan.

Three vice mayoralty candidates, including Zaldy’s wife Johaira (running in Datu Hoffer Ampatuan), and 10 other candidates for councilor are also under the opposition party.

On the other hand, the administration Liberal Party has seven local candidates surnamed Ampatuan, including Marop, who is running against Sajid Islam for mayor of Shariff Aguak.

PDP-Laban and the Nationalist People’s Coalition each have three local candidates surnamed Ampatuan, while one is running under Aksyon Party. Five are independent.

Decision of local bets

Asked about the decision of the party to ally with the Ampatuans, particularly Sajid Islam who is facing charges in connection with the Maguindanao massacre, UNA spokesman Mon Ilagan said the local candidates here know their politics more than the members of the party on the national level.

“We leave it to them their choices of candidates, in this case it is UNA gubernatorial candidate Ali Midtimbang and his team who have chosen Sajid Ampatuan,” he said.

UNA is fielding Midtimbang, father-in-law of Zaldy, against reelectionist Gov. Esmael Mangudadatu of the ruling Liberal Party.

Mangudadatu’s wife Genalyn led the convoy that was ambushed and killed by suspected members of the private army of the Ampatuans on Nov. 23, 2009. Fifty-eight people, including 32 media practitioners, were killed.

Following the proclamation rally of local candidates here in Talayan on Tuesday, Sajid Islam was seen escorting Binay to the provincial headquarters of UNA, where they had a meal with other local candidates.

Released last year after posting the P11.6-million bail set by the court, Sajid Islam said in an earlier interview that he was tasked by his father to “bring to life” the clan, which used to occupy top posts in the province and in the region.

In her ruling granting the bail plea of the former vice governor, Quezon City Regional Trial Court Branch 221 Judge Jocelyn Solis-Reyes said the prosecution panel failed to present substantial evidence to warrant his continued detention during the course of the trial.

Citing testimony of witnesses, the court said the accused was merely present in the supposed meetings where the massacre was allegedly planned, but did not utter any word while matters about the crime were supposedly being discussed.

“Taking into consideration this silence and non-participation notwithstanding the fact that he gave P2,000 to a witness for the latter to buy fish, the court finds, in its exercise of sound discretion, that the totality of the circumstances presently fails to reach the threshold of strong evidence of guilt,” read the order.

The Office of the Solicitor General appealed the bail ruling before the Court of Appeals. – With John Unson