http://freerepublic.com/focus/f-chat/3383863/posts
202
20
Skip to comments.

Liberals desperately seeking self-suffering

American Thinker ^ | 14 Jan, 2016 | Douglas Herz

Posted on by MtnClimber

We know that liberals desperately pursue those things that cause them to hate themselves. Who knows why? Perhaps it is some kind of sick reason to justify their miserable existence, a sort of mental self-flagellation, to join the endless cognitive dissonances that also reside in the liberal psyche. Whatever the reason, for the rest of us, this liberal lunacy causes only puzzled disbelief and amused head-scratching.

A perfect example is the meme that racist Europeans caused the virtual extinction of the Indians in America by bringing dreaded diseases with them to the New World in a deliberate ethnic cleansing. Unfortunately for liberals, the evidence, as usual, proves their claims utterly false.



(Excerpt) Read more at americanthinker.com ...

TOPICS:

Society

KEYWORDS:

leftist

liberal





To: MtnClimber

The left instinctively sides with evil.



by 2 posted onby MtnClimber (For photos of Colorado scenery and wildlife, click on my screen name for my FR home page.)

To: MtnClimber

The leftist lie is that Europeans spread war and disease to erstwhile peaceful, progressive areas of the earth and stole the riches and knowledge of those peaceful, progressive areas. The actual history shows the Europeans were constantly being invaded by foreign conquerors (Mongols, Moors, Turks) and killed by the millions by diseases coming from foreign countries. Meanwhile, while subjugating certain foreign populations, Europeans also brought technology, science, and modern medical practices to many backwards places. Moral of the story: never trust a leftist to tell the truth about anything. The best they can do is a half truth.



by 3 posted onby driftless2 (For long term happiness, learn how to play the accordion)

To: MtnClimber

The evils of the left are pretty obvious to us because we are protesting them all the time. How about the evils of the right, which together with the other evils comprise the evils of all mankind? All these evils occur when something that is not God is afforded the place we should be affording to God. In the case of the left, an example (and probably the main) usurped divine quality is lovingkindness. This gets assigned to a godless government (or supra-government entity like the UN) which proceeds to make a tragic hash of it, not having any picture of the purpose of life except to live unto the government. In the case of the right, an example usurped divine quality is evangelism... yes, I said evangelism. I see all the complaints that Caesar’s government isn’t allowed to bring God into schools any more. Which sounds like a plausible place to bring blame for the godlessness seen in schools. Until we start seeing Facebook accounts of how kids, who never knew that it was supposed to be forbidden, bring a gospel mindset with them (meaning an actual personal allegiance to Jesus, not a bunch of philosophies). By mis-estimating the place and power of God, both left and right err. And me, I probably have not done this as well as I could either. I don’t present my essay as perfect, only as approaching the perfect compared with where most of the political world is. We have to treasure God again for all He is worth, and that privately, we can’t “let George do it.” Then we will see a source of salt and light once more that will keep and illuminate all that goes on around it.



by 4 posted onby HiTech RedNeck (Embrace the Lion of Judah and He will roar for you and teach you to roar too. See my page.)

To: driftless2

Left and right do this, but differently. See tragedy. Blame tragedy on other guy. Hardly lift a finger to help tragedy (it seems to be enough to say “Other Guy should have known better”).



by 5 posted onby HiTech RedNeck (Embrace the Lion of Judah and He will roar for you and teach you to roar too. See my page.)

To: HiTech RedNeck

The left tends to side against Christianity including Christian refugees from middle east countries where they are persecuted unlike the sunni refugees from Syria which the left love.



by 6 posted onby MtnClimber (For photos of Colorado scenery and wildlife, click on my screen name for my FR home page.)

To: MtnClimber

They side against a nominal Christianity that barely looks like a glimmer compared with what God has been known to do... that’s how the devil gets to put them down.



by 7 posted onby HiTech RedNeck (Embrace the Lion of Judah and He will roar for you and teach you to roar too. See my page.)

To: MtnClimber

The situation is serious enough that the evangelized need evangelization. That when Jesus said “With God all things are possible” He was not woofing. The moment they start to take an agape love perspective is the moment that God is going to send angels to start protecting what they do. If they’re just satisfied with private quiet rituals, God sees that as a Laodecean (sp?) situation.



by 8 posted onby HiTech RedNeck (Embrace the Lion of Judah and He will roar for you and teach you to roar too. See my page.)

To: MtnClimber

All Christendom is going to suffer. But Christendom that is satisfied to be weak in the Lord is going to suffer to more peril than that which isn’t. The suffering happens before both left and right. If the left sometimes assails it unfairly, the right sometimes furnishes it excuses (oh, these lefties are all that are to blame for your lack of victory) for stopping shy of the Source of all blessings.



by 9 posted onby HiTech RedNeck (Embrace the Lion of Judah and He will roar for you and teach you to roar too. See my page.)

To: MtnClimber

The left is about victimhood. It’s very hard if you’re a straight white male, because you are considered the oppressor. Unless you have lots of money.



by 10 posted onby AlaskaErik (I served and protected my country for 31 years. Progressives spent that time trying to destroy it.)

To: HiTech RedNeck

From where I sit I can clearly see that Republican “core values” support good. The problem is that the GOPe has been compromised by evil. They are similar to the leftist democrats in that the try to gain power over the people by implementing totalitarian control. It is like the left and GOPe are battling to be in control of a slave population. The GOP will have to change to a more honest and religious type of person to bring our country back to greatness.



by 11 posted onby MtnClimber (For photos of Colorado scenery and wildlife, click on my screen name for my FR home page.)

To: AlaskaErik

Does the right ever look like it is saying it is a victim of the left? I think it does sometimes.



by 12 posted onby HiTech RedNeck (Embrace the Lion of Judah and He will roar for you and teach you to roar too. See my page.)

To: MtnClimber

The left instinctively sides with evil. That's becsuse they are, evil that is.



by 13 posted onby Mark17 (Thank God I have Jesus, there's more wealth in my soul than acres of diamonds and mountains of gold)

To: MtnClimber

How about the “We The People” that headlines our venerable Constitution? How about THAT changing?



by 14 posted onby HiTech RedNeck (Embrace the Lion of Judah and He will roar for you and teach you to roar too. See my page.)

To: Mark17

Are they so evil that the right can do nothing but wallow?



by 15 posted onby HiTech RedNeck (Embrace the Lion of Judah and He will roar for you and teach you to roar too. See my page.)

To: MtnClimber

The best thing the honky libs ever stumbled upon is their “white privilege” gig. Now they can hate themselves ALL of the time. Being miserable and full of hate always makes commie libs happy.



by 16 posted onby FlingWingFlyer (Being an American isn't a piece of paper from the State Department. It's an attitude.)

To: Mark17; All

I’m being a gadfly on purpose, folks. “It is hard for you to kick against the goads.” No political party can bring us God. Our own personal invitation has to bring us God. If He isn’t there, it isn’t a political party whose shortcoming is responsible for this. Too many bible promises to make this even a remotely plausible thesis. The follies of political parties of all stripes should serve as lessons unto us, follies that we should not repeat. Not as convenient whipping boys to complain about. Would you look at me like I am insane to say that the power of God when seriously pursued can surmount all the ills that assail our souls, and then burst forth with a victory? And I say this not as a righteous man but as an evil man. I am a man so evil that God is my only hope. The world couldn’t purge me of the shame. My willpower couldn’t. Only God in great lovingkindness could. I hope America doesn’t have to get as evil as I did, before it dawns on them what God can do.



by 17 posted onby HiTech RedNeck (Embrace the Lion of Judah and He will roar for you and teach you to roar too. See my page.)

To: Mark17

Like the spiritual leader for 0bama and hillary, Saul Alinsky the athiest. He did not believe in God, but dedicated his book, “Rules for Radicals” to lucifer, who he was more inclined to believe in.



by 18 posted onby MtnClimber (For photos of Colorado scenery and wildlife, click on my screen name for my FR home page.)

To: FlingWingFlyer

As gadfly, I would have to say that maybe there IS a reason to hate themselves, but it isn’t the reason they think. The reason is that they forgot what set them where they were. It was gospel. It was the audacious news of a God that would accept their pitiful statements of spiritual bankruptcy, and come back to them with flush new accounts funded by His Son. They began to imagine it was all their own hard work, and nothing to do with a gift that was given from beyond the world. Now they’re hating themselves because they know they have something that they should have been sharing. They just can’t put their finger on exactly WHAT it is. Now I’m coming around as a gadfly to remind them.



by 19 posted onby HiTech RedNeck (Embrace the Lion of Judah and He will roar for you and teach you to roar too. See my page.)

To: MtnClimber

C. S. Lewis characterized evil as goodness pursued in a wrong way (which is why he discarded dualism, of utterly independent good and evil powers, as a philosophy). Anyhow, Alinsky and his Lucifer is not an exception to this. Even Lucifer wanted glory, but his problem was that he couldn’t generate any; only God could generate it. Had Lucifer remained humble and not fallen, he would have been gifted with more and better glory than his now stolen and finite glory. It is a sad story of neglecting the riches right under one’s nose. But God permitted this choice to happen rather than to force anyone to love Him as a puppet. I’m trying once more to highlight the choice of these riches, but I can’t stuff it down anyone’s throat either. If you don’t want it, I won’t make you want it. But it comes from God. I’m just making a big noise about it.



by 20 posted onby HiTech RedNeck (Embrace the Lion of Judah and He will roar for you and teach you to roar too. See my page.)

To: metmom

Ping.



by 21 posted onby Mark17 (Thank God I have Jesus, there's more wealth in my soul than acres of diamonds and mountains of gold)

To: HiTech RedNeck

They side against a nominal Christianity... Why is it that they not only side with evil ideas, they feel the need to own them? Why is is so hard for people to see it? They would rather accept a palatable lie than face the hard truth that they might be wrong.



by 22 posted onby Only1choice____Freedom (As long as America's tolerence of failure is not overwhelmed by a desire to succeed, we will fail.)

To: HiTech RedNeck

Very well put!



by 23 posted onby MtnClimber (For photos of Colorado scenery and wildlife, click on my screen name for my FR home page.)

To: HiTech RedNeck

C. S. Lewis characterized evil as goodness pursued in a wrong way... It has been my experience that evil people always have a good given talent or ability that is perverted and twisted to their selfish desires. It is always the same. Selfishness taken to an extreme. However, Honest, truly good Godly people are never the same. They exhibit multiple, ever changing talents and skills that grow them as a human, meanwhile evil rots the self from the inside. Humans are like every thing in the universe, it is either in the process of growing or dying. It is possible to evolve beyond the physical if so fortunate.



by 24 posted onby Only1choice____Freedom (As long as America's tolerence of failure is not overwhelmed by a desire to succeed, we will fail.)

To: MtnClimber

We are talking about WHITE liberals here. Black and Brown liberals feel all racially superior when they see white libs grovel.



To: MtnClimber

We know that liberals desperately pursue those things that cause them to hate themselves. Who knows why? Perhaps it is some kind of sick reason to justify their miserable existence, a sort of mental self-flagellation, to join the endless cognitive dissonances that also reside in the liberal psyche. Whatever the reason, for the rest of us, this liberal lunacy causes only puzzled disbelief and amused head-scratching. Seems to be an infectious condition - many here appear to have caught it.



by 26 posted onby trebb (Where in the the hell has my country gone?)

Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works.

FreeRepublic , LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794

FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson