http://www.4-traders.com/news/Congress-Faces-Tight-Budget-Deadline--23007744/
130
13
By Kristina Peterson

WASHINGTON -- Lawmakers return to Washington Tuesday in the midst of their re-election campaigns with fights already brewing over government spending and funding to thwart the Zika virus, while tensions simmer between conservatives and House GOP leaders.

Lawmakers, who left town in mid-July, aren't planning to be back for long. They are scheduled to recess again for the month of October. But before then, they must ensure the government keeps running after its current funding expires on midnight on Sept. 30.

With Congress on track to miss the deadline, lawmakers are divided over whether to pass a stopgap spending bill that would fund the government into December or punt it into 2017, when a new Congress will convene.

A December deadline would put pressure on the current Congress to complete individual spending bills to fund the government through fiscal 2017, an approach favored by senior lawmakers on the Appropriations committees in both chambers. Several of those bills are likely to be combined into one sweeping bill, as Congress often does when it runs out of time and money at year's end.

Senate Republicans who are defending the most vulnerable seats in this year's struggle for control of the Senate have an incentive to resolve the spending fight quickly so they can return home to campaign. But it isn't clear if House Republicans, or Senate Democrats will let that happen.

"We have a long, long to-do list. First on that list is funding the federal government," Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid (D., Nev.) told reporters late last week, insisting that any spending bill end in December. "We're not going to do anything past the first of the year."

But a coalition of conservative groups and lawmakers are balking at this strategy, advocating for a stopgap spending bill that stretches into 2017. They fear letting a must-pass spending bill dangle in December would entice legislators and lobbyists to try to slip in special-interest handouts at a time, after the election, when some lawmakers are on their way out of office.

"We want to make sure that when people are voting on this spending bill, they'll be held accountable to voters," said Andy Koenig, senior policy adviser at Freedom Partners, a conservative group affiliated with the Koch brothers.

Some Republicans argue that approach would backfire if Congress opts to just extend current funding levels instead of passing new, tailored spending bills in which funding has been trimmed and prioritized by GOP-controlled appropriations committees.

Regardless of the bill's duration, it is likely to be the vehicle for any deal lawmakers reach to boost funding to combat the Zika virus. The Obama administration warned Congress last week that it is close to running out of money for Zika. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said it has already committed to using $190 million of the roughly $220 million it had redirected to help combat the virus.

Earlier in the summer, Democrats and Republicans hit an impasse over how to fund the government's efforts to combat Zika. Democrats have objected to a GOP provision that effectively prevents funding from going to ProFamilias, a partner of Planned Parenthood in Puerto Rico, where Zika cases have grown.

GOP lawmakers, meanwhile, are insistent that any new spending on Zika be offset with budget cuts elsewhere.

Lawmakers and aides said talks hadn't progressed over the seven-week break, while Zika's reach expanded in the continental U.S. Outside of U.S. territories, the first known cases of the virus being locally transmitted by mosquitoes were reported in Florida in July.

"We need to do whatever it takes to make sure Zika gets controlled," said Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart, a Florida Republican. Most of his colleagues from other states haven't expressed the same urgency. "We'll have to negotiate so we can get the same bill passed in the House and Senate," Mr. Diaz-Balart said.

One dynamic that could complicate September negotiations is some conservatives' frustration with House GOP leaders. Already facing likely opposition on the spending bill and Zika funding, House Speaker Paul Ryan (R., Wis.) will also have to contend with the House Freedom Caucus' push to hold a floor vote on whether to impeach Internal Revenue Service Commissioner John Koskinen, who is under fire for his response to congressional investigations of the agency's scrutiny of tea-party groups.

Such a vote could be perilous, particularly for centrist Republicans who are in danger of losing their seats in November, if a too-thin legal case makes Republicans appear to be on a political witch hunt.

In one sign that GOP leaders aren't eager to hold such a vote, House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R., Calif.) didn't mention it in a memo to Republicans about what to expect this month. Mr. Ryan said in July that House Republicans would discuss the issue when they returned to Washington.

"We can talk about it a little more but we are committed to making this [vote] happen," Freedom Caucus Chairman Jim Jordan (R., Ohio) said in an interview. The group of conservative lawmakers plans "to doing everything we can in September to have a vote on this," he said. Mr. Jordan said conservatives are also angry that GOP leaders didn't do more to try to help protect Rep. Tim Huelskamp (R., Kan.), who lost his primary last month.

Congress in September may also consider the annual defense policy bill. Lawmakers are currently negotiating a compromise between different versions passed by the two chambers.

--Stephanie Armour contributed to this article.

Write to Kristina Peterson at kristina.peterson@wsj.com