http://www.wsj.com/articles/portugal-faces-ratings-risk-re-run-1474988280
139
13
ENLARGE The Portuguese parliament in Lisbon. Portugal faces another bond-market test as DBRS is due to review the country’s debt rating Oct. 21. The firm’s current investment grade rating allows Portuguese government bonds to qualify for purchases by the European Central Bank. Photo: Reuters

The summer may be over, but southern European government bonds are starting to feel the heat.

Italy is headed for a key constitutional referendum Dec. 4 that could lead to political upheaval. Spain remains without a government and may yet undergo a third round of elections. Most immediately, Portugal faces another bond-market test.

The issue once again revolves around ratings firm DBRS, which still rates Portugal in investment-grade territory. That allows Portuguese government bonds to qualify for purchases by the European Central Bank. DBRS is due to review Portugal’s rating Oct. 21. The firm still has a stable outlook on the rating, which reduces the risk of an outright downgrade. But even a negative outlook could prove troublesome, raising questions about the possibility of ejection from the ECB’s purchase program.

Growth is a key concern. The International Monetary Fund last week warned that Portugal’s economy is losing momentum: growth in 2016 is forecast at just 1%. Portugal has managed to stabilize its debt at around 130% of gross domestic product, but isn’t making inroads into reducing it. That leaves it vulnerable to further shocks.

And Portugal’s troubles aren’t just its own. DBRS has consistently given credit for Europe’s political will to stick together. But Europe’s cohesion faces increasingly stiff tests, thanks in part to the Brexit vote. The ECB has been calling for governments to take action to address the shortcomings of the eurozone, but many flaws remain.

Portuguese bonds have sharply underperformed this year. While German bonds have returned 6.6% year-to-date, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes, Portuguese debt is down 2.3%. The spread between the Portuguese and German 10-year yields is close to its widest level since ECB purchases began last year.

Investors might be searching for yield, but the 3.4% on offer on the 10-year Portuguese bond isn’t enough of a lure. Even the long arm of the ECB can only reach so far.

Write to Richard Barley at richard.barley@wsj.com