http://www.libdemvoice.org/lets-talk-about-peace-49008.html
202
20
Almost all Liberal Democrats agree on the EU. A remarkably high number give the same reason for their support – Peace. Securing peace was the primary goal of the Founding Fathers of the European Union. Making war unthinkable and impossible through economic integration and prosperity were the means to the end. Peace and Prosperity.

The debate so far has focused on the economic arguments. After years of political debate and endless studies it’s no surprise that the impact on the economy and our jobs is the top concern of most voters.

But polling shows peace is a decisive argument in favour of remaining in the EU.

It does not rate as highly and is mentioned only by those who are already supporters and some therefore draw the conclusion it is not useful to talk about it. I disagree.

I conclude the opposite – that it has not been talked about enough! The facts are indisputable – we have had more than seventy years of peace – unprecedented in European history despite our common Christian teaching of “Love thy Neighbour”.

The Leavers try to dismiss the claim by saying it is not the EU but NATO that keeps the peace – but this is wrong. NATO was powerless to stop the military junta in Greece deposing Makarios in Cyprus which provoked the Turkish invasion to prevent the imminent ethnic cleansing of the island. It is the UN that now patrols the border not NATO. It was the European Union that brought Greece along the path to democracy and membership when the junta was itself deposed and it was the EU that offered Turkey a “privileged partnership” and a customs union to promote trade.

Under Franco, the military dictator of Spain the border with Gibraltar had been closed for years. Even water supplies were cut off. After he died Spain too was brought along the path of democracy to EU membership. But before being admitted the objections of the nationalists had to be overcome. Now 10,000 people cross the border every day to work in a Gibraltar transformed from naval base and dockyard to a prosperous economy built on tourism and financial services.

The EU has provided billions of Euros to implement the Good Friday Agreement, bringing peace not just to Ireland but London, Guildford and Warrington too. It could only be an aristocratic English Secretary of State for Northern Ireland and MP for Chipping Barnet that could seriously think it was in ‘Britain’s’ best interests to leave the European Union and hats off to Catherine Bearder for outing her and calling for Theresa Villier’s resignation.

It is only an English MP and Leader of the House of Commons, Chris Grayling that could honestly believe it would be “disastrous” for ‘Britain’ to stay in the European Union. Right-wing nationalists are belligerent and sow discord. We need to call them out, to name and shame.

We must make peace the argument for remaining in. We must remind every voter why the EU was started and continues to be important. We know this a message which will inspire and motivate our members so let’s go out and shout about it.

* Mike Biden is an Executive ordinary member in Winchester. A lifelong supporter of the Liberals, he has become an activist since his retirement. His career saw him in senior corporate positions in Sales & Marketing and as a Chief Executive.