http://pchrgaza.org/en/?p=892
203
20
Print

Ref: 48/2013

On Wednesday, 26 June 2013, Mr. Raji

Sourani, Director of PCHR, met with Ms. Heidi Hautala, Finnish Minister of

International Cooperation, and an accompanied delegation comprised of: Ms.

Prirko-Liisa Kyostila, Director of the Department for Development Policy; the

Head of the Representative Office of Finland to the Palestinian Authority; and assisting

staff. The meeting was attended also by

Ms. Yasmeen al-Khudari, a Palestinian blogger, and Ms. Hiba al-Zayan, an

analyst of UN Empowerment and Gender Equality.







Sourani first thanked the Finnish

Minister for her visit to the Gaza Strip, her interest in the human rights

situation in Palestine and the constant and clear positions of the Finnish

government towards the Palestinian-Israeli conflict. He then reviewed the human rights situation

in Palestine, especially in the Gaza Strip, condemning the institutionalization

of the illegal closure imposed on the Gaza Strip for several years as a form of

collective punishment, and its impact on the human, social and economic

conditions of about 2 million Palestinians.



Sourani also addressed the lack of accountability

against suspected Israeli war criminal for war crimes and crimes against

humanity they commit, stressing that none of the Israeli security, military or

political officials has been held accountable, so the international community

is required to activate the principle of universal jurisdiction and the

International Criminal Court to ensure that Israel and its leaders are held

accountable.

He further reviewed the human rights

situation in the West Bank, including Jerusalem, considering that the Israeli

policies there constitute a new more brutal and bloodier apartheid, and ethnic

cleansing against Palestinians in Jerusalem.

He also considered settlement Israeli activities in the West Bank

serious, calling on Europe to take a practical political position towards this

crime.

Sourani also talked about women’s rights

in the Gaza Strip, and the suffering of women and the youth at many

levels.

In the end, Sourani discussed the

internal situation and addressed practices of the two governments in Gaza and

Ramallah, highlighting the disastrous impact of the Palestinian political

split.