http://www.thestar.com.my/news/regional/2016/06/07/race-to-defuse-bombs-in-homes-explosives-rain-down-on-sri-lankan-villages-after-depot-blast/
203
20
COLOMBO: Sri Lankan police were racing to defuse unexploded bombs that rained down on villages near the capital overnight, destroying homes and killing a soldier, after a fire at an ammunition depot.

At least one soldier burnt to death and thousands of villagers fled their homes after fire broke out at the Salawa military complex late on Sunday, triggering a series of explosions that sent shrapnel flying into the air.

Local businessman Neville Nishantha fled with his wife and three children as the explosions began and returned yesterday morning to see his house in ruins.

“A mortar bomb had gone through my roof and hit the living room,” Nishantha said. “A wall collapsed in the bedroom where my three children would have slept.”

The police Special Task Force commandos were deployed to defuse multi-barrel rockets, artillery rounds, rocket propelled grenades and mortar bombs from residential areas yesterday.

A photographer saw commandos collecting at least four unexploded rockets, one of which was lodged in the ground outside an abandoned home.

“Forensic experts have examined the site and we have just begun clearing the main roads of all unexploded ordnance,” a senior police official said.

Nearly 50 people were treated for injuries or smoke inhalation after the fire, which forced the evacuation of the local government hospital. Police said the facility had been badly damaged.

Authorities are yet to identify the cause of the fire, which began at sundown on Sunday and continued until yesterday morning.

Government spokesman Rajitha Senaratne said the national security council would meet to review the blast.

“This is a military matter and they must investigate if this was an accident or sabotage,” said Senaratne.

One of the affected villages housed widows and wounded veterans from Sri Lanka’s long civil war, who had to cross a river to safety.

“We took a boat and went across the Kelani river and took shelter at a temple,” said 53-year-old widow Mahilagodage Rohini. “Most of the houses at our (Swarna Jayanthi) village have been destroyed.”

Wasantha Fernando, 45, said he abandoned his home and ran as thick black smoke filled the area.

“When I got back this morning the entire place was covered in ash,” he said, adding that his walls had cracked and the house was unstable.

It was the second time in three weeks that residents of Colombo were forced to leave their homes.

Last month, around 200,000 residents in the capital were driven out of their homes by floods caused by the Kelani river bursting its banks. — AFP