http://today.az/news/politics/149977.html
203
20
/By Azernews/

By Nazrin Gadimova

The Armenian leadership has no common sense, Novruz Mammadov, the deputy head of Azerbaijani presidential administration, believes.

He made the remarks while commenting on the Armenian Foreign Ministry’s statement demanding to cancel the 7th Global Forum of the UN Alliance of Civilizations, which is scheduled to be held in Baku on April 25-27.

Mammadov regarded Yerevan's accusation of Baku in "violation of fundamental principles of international law" as absurd amid Armenia's keeping under control over 20 percent of Azerbaijan's internationally recognized territory.

"Armenia does not consider the occupation of Azerbaijan’s territories the violation of international law," Mammadov posted on his Facebook page. "At the same time, all international organizations and bodies, including UN Security Council, think this occupation is a flagrant violation of international law."

Mammadov stressed that in fact, the leadership of Armenia, which has become a hostage to the authorities, is not able to see farther than its nose. “The reason for such impudence is that behind them there are certain circles in some countries. When the world is in a stressful time, such actions of the Armenian leadership will never ensure the well-being of the country and its people.”

Armenia, which occupied 20 percent of Azerbaijan’s territory, has not yet implemented four UN Security Council resolutions on immediate withdrawal of its armed forces from the Nagorno-Karabakh and the surrounding districts.

Moreover, the reigning Armenian leadership launched a furious attack on the Khojaly city late into night from February 25 to 26, killing 613 civilian Azerbaijanis with an unforeseen brutality. President Serzh Sargsyan led the aggressive operations in Khojaly, which is fairly recognized by many nations as Khojaly Massacre – the tragedy of the 20th century.

Armenian barbarians disabled some 1,000 people, eradicating eight families completely. About 25 children lost one of their parents and 130 were completely deprived of their parents in the wake of an ethnic cleansing in Khojaly.

Moreover, 6 civilians and 31 soldiers were killed and dozens injured during the recent hostilities in Nagorno-Karabakh launched by Armenia on April 2.