http://www.scoopnews.in/det.aspx?q=53713%20class=
202
20
News Details Displaced Kashmiri Pandits observe "Holocaust Day"

Jammu, January 19 (Scoop News)-Displaced Kashmiri Pandits who were forced to fled from Kashmir valley to Jammu and other states in early nineties soon after the outbreak of militancy in Kashmir observed today as their 26th "holocaust day".



The Joint Forum of Kashmiri Pandit organizations held a massive protest demonstration today on the occasion of 26th Holocaust Day in Jammu.



The displaced community of Kashmir has been observing this day ever since their mass exodus from the valley of Kashmir.



Besides, Jammu, the Holocaust Day was observed by the members of Kashmiri Pandit community at Union Capital of Delhi, Pune, Bangalore, Mumbai, Chand-igarh and other places of the country.



At Jammu a joint protest demonstration was held by activists and leaders of various KP organizations in front of Raj Bhawan here on the call of All State Kashmiri Pandit Conference (ASKPC). Besides the activists of ASKPC, Panun Kashmir led by Ashwani Chrungoo, All Displaced KP United Forum led by D N Kissu, JK Democratic Front, led by M K Yogi, Sampuran Kashmiri Sangathan led by Rakesh Kaul, Jagti Coordination Committee led by Ravi Ji, NC Minority Cell led by B L Bhat ex MLC, BJP Minority Cell led by T N Bhat, Sharika Peeth Sansthan led by M K Jalali, JKVM led by Ashok Kangan and activists of other social organizations.

The protesters with banners and pla-cards in their hands were raising slogans against the separatists and anti national elements who were responsible for the mass exodus of Pandits.



President, Panun Kashmir,Ashwani Kumar Chrungoo, in his address said that those who forget the facts of history are condemned to live it again and that is why that the leadership of the community has to remain on guard against any hasty and apolitical move regarding the settlement of the community in Kashmir. Diatribe against the Pandit community by the separatist forces in Kashmir remains unabated despite complete banishment of the Pandits in Kashmir. It is the secessionist and terrorist forces who were responsible for the genocide and ethnic cleansing of Kashmiri Pandits. The observance of the 19th January as the Holocaust Day reminds the community of the historical facts regarding its persecution and exodus. The coming together of various KP organisations on one platform today demonstrated the sense of alarm and urgency because of the uncertain political conditions in the state.

Virender Raina said that the displacement and resettlement of the community in Kashmir are very serious political issues. The community has first and natural right over the territory of Kashmir and would return only when its geo-political aspirations as per Margdarshan resolution are fulfilled through political and constitutional means. Despite the recommendations made by a number of Parliamentary Standing committee on Home affairs regarding the grant of Internally Displaced Persons status to the KP community, nothing concrete has been done till date. We demand that the IDP status as recommended by the Parliamentary Committees be granted to the community living in exile for the last 26 years.





ASKPC president Ravinder Raina in his address lambasted the Government and demanded a white paper from it for the reasons which led to forced exodus of Pandits from Valley. He alleged that the brutal killings of KPs by the terrorists and supported by Pan Islamic fundamentalists were never probed even after the culprits accepted the crime publicly, not a single FIR was registered or a judicial enquiry was ordered.



Dr T K Bhat general secretary ASKPC also took the Government to task for its failure in settling the problems of Pandits and this is the main reason that the community is living in exile for last 26 years. CL Bhat vice president ASKPC held the policies of successive Governments at Delhi and J&K responsible for pain and agony of displaced Pandits.

Among others R K Wangnoo, Tej Pandita, Prof Satish Bhan, Bharat Bushan Gosani, Veena Gurtoo and freelancer Shiban Khybri were present.



Panun Kashmir led by Vijay Bhat organized a meeting of its Polit Bureau here today to pay tributes to the martyrs and discussed the issues which have merged over these years and have consequences over the displaced Pandits. Bhat said January 19 is the Black Day in the history of India.

27th Holocaust Day was observed at Jagti township by All Migrant Camp Coordination Committee. The activists of AMCCC led by Desh Rattan with banners and pla -cards in their hands staged a protest demonstration in the camp. Desh Rattan said Pandits are worst sufferers of terrorism who are leading an exiled life for last 26 years in various camps here and successive Governments have failed settle their problems.

BJP Kashmir Displaced Distt. Observed Holocoust day at its office holocaust day at its office 106, Sarwal Jammu by wearing block badges.

Holocaust day is observed on 19 Janauary every year as exodus of Kashmiri Pandits from valley. Two minutes silence was observed to mark the respect who sarcrificed their lives for the sake of motherland. Also security personnels who lost their lives, while fighting for the nation.

Later on the party workers participated in mass demonstration in front of Raj Bhawan where all Kashmiri pundits above party politics joined to demonstrate for their existence.

T.N. Bhat, Sunil Bhat, Vijay Raina, Satish Zutshi, Bansi Bhat, Makhan Lal Bhat, Veena Gupta, Kaka JI Choudhary, Ashok Bhat , Ak Pandit, Verinder Kuchroo, Raju Kakroo and J L Pandit.





KPC led by Kundan Kashmiri which supported ASKPC’s call also observe Holocaust Day as Black Day as its activists wore black badges at Jammu and Delhi besides switched off the lights of their houses for one hour in the evening as a mark of protest and solidarity with hundreds of Pandits families, other nationalist people and jawans

... Share this Story Comment On this Story Back Issuesk Issues If you are looking for Issues beyond today. You can simply use this calendar tool to view Issue of Scoop News for any particular Date. Get the Twitter / ScoopNewsJnK widget and many other great free widgets at Widgetbox ! Not seeing a widget? ( More info Heating Pads | Knee Heating Pad | Foot Warmers Shridev Sharma, Kamrup Housing, Durva Greens