http://www.kashmirtimes.in/newsdet.aspx?q=48874
202
20
Kashmir Tributes paid to victims of Nadimarg massacre KT NEWS SERVICE SRINAGAR, Jan 19: Tributes were today paid by All Parties Migrants Coordination Committee (APMCC) to 24 Pandits, who were massacred by unidentified gunmen at Nadimarg in south Kashmir on March 23, 2003.



Police and Pandits had blamed militants for the massacre. Militant groups had denied it.



A team of APMCC leaders visited the Nadimarg village for the first time after the massacre. The team led by its chairman Vinod Pandit visited the village and paid tributes to them to commemorate 26th anniversary of the mass migration of Pandits from Kashmir.



Vinod Pandit said APMCC has decided to pay tributes to all the slain persons of minority community of Jammu and Kashmir in a unique way by constructing a “grand Kashmiri Pandit Martyrs Memorial” on the pattern of war memorial to honour their sacrifices for the community.



“The martyrs including those of Wandhama, Sangram Pora, Chattisinghpora, Prankot area of Udhampur district and Kaluchak in Jammu will be remembered through this memorial whose names would be engraved on the plaques of the Martyrs Memorial,”he added.



Speaking on the occasion Arun Kandroo and Vinod Tiku senior APMCC leader said that Pakistan sponsored militancy was responsible for forced exodus of the community as massacres like that of Wandhama in 1998 where 26 Kashmiri Pandits were killed, Nadimarg where 24 Kashmiri Pandits were killed on March 23, 2003, Prankot area of Udhampur District where 26 Hindus were killed in April 2003, Chattisinghpora in 2000 where 36 people were killed and Kaluchak attack in which 31 people including 19 family members of army personnel were killed was a “conspiracy of ethnic cleansing of Hindus adding such a memorial by APMCC would be a befitting tribute for their sacrifice.”



King Bharati said that APMCC which is the apex body of Kashmiri Pandits working inside Kashmir Valley for the past more than a decade is the first organization that has visited any massacre site in Kashmir valley for the first time since mass migration of Kashmiri Pandits and now was planning to construct a “grand Martyrs memorial for its community martyrs in Kashmir valley.”



APMCC leaders who visited Nadimarg included Rishab Bhat Ravinder Koul, Rakesh Dhar,RK Koul, Sahil Tiku, Ashok Singh, Rahul Ramesh Raina, Sanjay Bhat.





News Updated at : Wednesday, January 20, 2016 Comment on this Story Top Stories of the Day Mehbooba should continue alliance with BJP: Farooq NEW DELHI, Jan 19 (Agencies): National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah has said that the PDP should continue its alliance with the BJP to complete the agenda of former chief minister Mufti Mohammed Sayeed, putting to rest speculation of a possible realignment of forces in the state. Farooq Abdullah had set the political grapevine abuzz after hinting that his party was ready for an alliance with the BJP if the latter sought its help for government formation in the state following the death of > Omar laments lack of progress on KPs’ return > PDP wants centre’s assurances on alliance Agenda > PDP not in touch with BJP: Nirmal > Heptullah visits Mehbooba > Pathankot terror strike could have been averted: Vohra