http://massispost.com/2016/02/german-bundestag-delays-vote-on-armenian-genocide-bill/
203
20
BERLIN (Armradio) — The German Bundestag held a debate on the Armenian Genocide on February 25 but did not vote on the bill proposed by the Alliance 90/The Greens. The ruling coalition said it’s not the proper time to adopt the bill and proposed to continue the discussions in the coming weeks to prepare a new finalized document until April 24, 2016.

Chairman of the Alliance 90/The Greens Cem Ozdemir agreed to withdraw his bill on condition that the new document to be agreed before April 24 clearly mentions the events of 1915 as genocide, accepts Germany’s role in the massacre and contributes to the normalization of the Armenian-Turkish relations.

The issue was brought to the agenda by the Alliance 90/The Greens, which has always urged to describe the events of 1915 as ‘genocide.’ Addressing the Bundestag today, Ozdemir said “the authorities have no common stance on the issue out of the fear to irritate Erdogan. “I don’t understand why we cannot vote for this bill. We should do that for the simple reason of clearing our conscience,” he said.

“Turkey is distorting its own history, while our goal is to establish the truth. A clear message on the part of Germany could change a lot,” Ozdemir said.

Klaus Brähmig of CDU/CSU said, in turn, that “the current Turkish authorities are not responsible for their ancestors, but can take steps to improve relations with Armenia.”

The bill debated on February 25 noted that “the German Bundestag bows to the victims of forced displacement and massacre of the Armenians and Aramaeans, Assyrians and other Christian minorities of the Ottoman Empire, which began 100 years ago. It deplored the actions of the then Turkish government, almost full annihilation of the Armenians in the Ottoman Empire.

The resolution noted that “the fate of the Armenians stands as exemplary in the history of mass exterminations, ethnic cleansing, deportations and yes, genocide, which marked the 20th century in such a terrible way.” German President Joachim Gauck used the same wording as he addressed a commemoration ceremony on the eve of the 100th anniversary of the Armenian Genocide.

The bill stated that “An honest appraisal of history is the most important basis for reconciliation.”

The bill also referred to the German role in the Armenian Genocide, noting that “today’s German authorities are obliged to contribute to the resumption of the Armenian-Turkish relations, opening of the shared border.”

Unlike the resolution adopted by the Bundestag in 2005, the bill considered today clearly described the events as‘genocide.’

News.am reports that Chancellor of Germany Angela Merkel was also present during the debates. Also present were representatives of all Christian churches – Armenian Apostolic, Assyrian and Syrian