http://www.veteranstoday.com/2016/02/25/397062/
203
20
Everyone knows about the Kabul Bank corruption, but the Afghanistan Ring Road project is an example of extensive corruption where war profiteers have absconded with the monies while not finishing the project. For example, the ECCI and METAG joint venture for a total of $477 million dollars, was contracted to complete the ring road from Qaisar to Laman in Northern Afghanistan. Yet this joint venture did not finish the job but these war profiteers received the money. Congress should ask the Department of State about the corruption tied to the Afghan Ring Road.

The U.S. Congress should cut the funds for reconstruction in Afghanistan until it can thoroughly investigate the corrupt profiteers and prosecute them. I believe an investigative team completely independent of and detached from the Pentagon, CIA, State Department, U.S. AID and the U.S. installed Afghan government needs to immediately be given authority to investigate this corruption. The U.S. government has a responsibility to stop the funds. If the funds stop, the war will stop because these war profiteers are not making any money.

In addition, it has been brought to my attention, that once again the communist war criminal, Rashid Dostum, the First Vice President of Afghanistan, is being sent to the Northern part of Afghanistan to kill the Afghan/Pashtun, the first people/native Afghans, who are the majority ethnic group in Afghanistan. As he has done in the past, Dostum is committing ethnic cleansing and genocide of the Afghan/Pashtun. Rashid Dostum is a documented war criminal. He was the subject of articles in the Time magazine and Newsweek. As reported in the Time on November 19, 2001, and in Newsweek, on November 5, 2001,Dostum and his group raped many Afghan women and children, “Dostum’s marauders chopped off breasts and tied the toes of women behind their heads.” Instead of prosecuting this criminal, my U.S. government ignores his war crimes, supports and keeps him on the payroll. The United States government needs to follow the rule of law and international law. Instead it is covering up these war crimes and helping him commit new war crimes against the Afghan/Pashtun like recently in Faryab Province. In addition, the Afghan majority has not forgotten about the war crimes committed by Dostum against the Pashtun in November 2001 at Dasht-e-Leili even though the United Nations and the United States has. When the UN asked the Afghans to surrender the Afghans did, and Dostum cowardly massacred them while he was partnering with the United States.

The United States through its installed- Afghan government is using the communist war criminal Dostum to do its dirty work, since the only threat and resistance to the war profiteers and the U.S. control of the Afghans’ Rare Earth Elements (REEs) and other natural resources comes from the Pashtun. Likewise, the U.S. installed Afghan government is appointing Hanif Atmar, a communist war criminal, as the National security adviser. Their war crimes are documented. Yet instead of being prosecuted in lawful tribunals, U.S tax dollars are used to fund these thugs. The United States is using these thugs to attack Afghans/Pashtun. Shame on my U.S. government.

For the United States to honorably end this ugly war the first step is to prosecute communist war criminals, who are present or former members of the Afghan governments during the past 16 years such as:

First Vice President Rashid Dostum

Afghan National Security Adviser Hanif Atmar

Governor of Balkh, Atta Mohammad Noor

Former Head of Afghan Intelligence, Amrullah Saleh and Present CIA Agent

Former Afghan Defense Minister Bismillah Mohammadi

Criminal War Lord, Abdul Rasul Sayyaf,

Criminal War Lord, Mohammad Mohaqiq.

Afghans have suffered enough these past four decades because of war, occupation and corruption. The Afghan children have suffered enough. Stop killing and terrorizing Afghans. Change the war strategy to a “sincere” negotiations strategy for peace. Pakistan cannot be involved in these negotiations because it is a known condition that the Afghan Freedom Fighters will not accept; the United States knows that the Afghan Freedom Fighters will not come to the table if Pakistan is involved. Therefore, I strongly believe that peace negotiations must be held without Pakistan’s involvement.

I hate war. I know the suffering that war causes. It is time to end the cycle of war and suffering. It is time for sincere peace talks. It is not the time for a framework established by the four-party committee through talks that will place the usual hurdles and unattainable preconditions to peace talks. The U.S. needs to change its war strategy to a peace strategy. The U.S needs to talk directly with the Afghan Freedom Fighters.

U.S. Congress needs to cut the funds for Afghanistan and end this war, which is filling the pockets of war profiteers and emptying the American coffers.

Sincerely,

Kadir A. Mohmand

Former Representative of the Afghan Freedom Fighters for North America during the 1980s

6147 Old Log Trail

Kalamazoo, MI 49009

(269) 353-7044