http://www.dailysabah.com/columns/ihsan-aktas/2016/02/26/syrian-refugees-and-problems-in-european-politics
203
20
The United States and the West misread the demand of the Syrian people for a better life and a better future in a democratic and a free country and their efforts to take down Bashar Assad's regime. Just like a boomerang, that misinterpretation eventually turned into a direct threat to the Western alliance and the very existence of NATO.



International and diplomatic crises may be compared to the emergence of an epidemic. If you cannot diagnose a country's crisis correctly in the first place, like a disease it will turn into an epidemic and threaten to spread across the whole region. Since the beginning of the Syrian opposition movement, Western powers insisted on the same fallacious diagnoses and modes of treatment.



At the beginning, the U.S. read the Syrian civil war through the al-Qaida element, believing that the fall of the Assad regime would lead to the rise of al-Qaida. In order to sabotage the valid demands of the Syrian people, a new terrorist organization, DAESH, which is much more dangerous, malignant and violent than al-Qaida, emerged out of the civil war. While the foundation of DAESH and its economic and military resources are still ambiguous, it will most probably only disappear once the Sunni Arab world is totally devastated.



After Iran manipulated Western powers and Russia aggressively challenged NATO, EU states and the U.S. have begun to question their positions on the Syrian crisis. By reading the Syrian civil war as revolving around al-Qaeda and DAESH, the Western alliance has enabled Russia to be the dominant power in the region through U.S. passivity and NATO impotence.



In the context of peace negotiations, Russia represents the Assad regime, the PYD and Iran, while the U.S. represents the legitimate opposition forces supported by Turkey and Saudi Arabia. Yet U.S. President Barack Obama's administration made an irreparable mistake by leaving those oppositional forces, including the Free Syrian Army, to the mercy of Russia, Assad, the PYD and DAESH. While the cease-fire and peace negotiations have begun, the problem of migrants has become one of the most significant issues for European countries like Germany, France and the United Kingdom. If EU countries cannot solve the migrant problem through the United Nations by enabling Syrian refugees in Turkey, Jordan, and Europe to return to their respective countries, then they will face tackling the migrant problem for years to come.



Our Western allies who misread the Syrian civil war should not stay passive and impotent on the issue of refugees by concentrating on returning them to their countries, but take a more active role. Surely, the resolution of the refugee problem will not be easy. Both the Assad regime and the PYD with its Stalinist organization have already realized massive operations of ethnic cleansing against Arabs, Turkmens and Kurds. Although the existence of the PYD seems to be advantageous for Western interests in the region, the military activities of the PYD and the Assad regime that aim at cleansing ethnic and religious groups by no means act in line with or support Western values.



The Western powers that allowed Russia to become the dominant force in Eastern Europe and the Middle East through their hesitant and inactive policies should now act strongly on the issue of refugees. By resolving such a significant issue, the West will not only get rid of a problem that could threaten the whole of Europe in the upcoming decade, but also adopt a right and just attitude, perfectly line with Western values. We hope that the Western powers, who have left the fate of the Syrian civil war to the mercy of Iran and Russia, will not leave ten million refugees to the mercy of the Assad regime, Russia, Iran and the PYD.