http://armenpress.am/eng/news/837239/annual-%E2%80%9Ckhojaly%E2%80%9D-deception-of-azerbaijani-propaganda.html
202
20
YEREVAN, FEBRUARY 25, ARMENPRESS. Every year in February Azerbaijan tries to display the Azerbaijanis killed on February 26, 1992 nearby Akn (Aghdam) city under unclear circumstances as victims of “The Khojaly massacres” or “genocide”, distorting the reality. According to the documentations of various international organizations and the authorities of Azerbaijan, including the then President Ayaz Mutalibov, the incident had been organized by the Azerbaijani opposition “Popular Front” in order to get rid of the leadership of the country.

“Armenpress” has often referred to the tragic incidents of Aghdam, which are stubbornly called “Khojaly events” by Azerbaijan.

The events of Khojaly (in reality-Aghdam), or more precisely, the provocation of Khojaly, have been best illustrated by former President of Azerbaijan Ayaz Mutalibov, former Chairman of the Supreme Council of Azerbaijan Tamerlan Karaev, prominent Arif Yunusov and Eynulla Fatullayev, who have unanimously insisted and proved that Armenians in reality left a humanitarian corridor there for the citizens to be able to abandon the area, and the real organizers of the tragedy of Khojaly are some Azerbaijani forces, such as the avant-garde hero of Azerbaijan Heydar Aliyev, who put end to all doubts by saying “We need bloodshed to come to power” prior to the incidents nearby Aghdam.

According to data of Human Rights Watch, during the Karabakh war, on February 26, 1992, 200-300 people (600 by Azerbaijani data), who were deliberately kept in the spot of military operations, were killed nearby Aghdam city under unclear circumstances. The population of Khojaly was forcefully kept in the settlement by the authorities for months in order later to use them as a human shield.

The residents of Khojaly, who had abandoned the area via the humanitarian corridor provided by the NKR self-defense units, passed 10 kms without any obstacles and reached Aghdam city which was at that time controlled by Azerbaijani forces. Later, the murdered residents of the settlement were discovered near the positions of Azerbaijani troops. The precise number of the killed remains unknown as the official Baku publishes contradictory figures. The Azerbaijani parliamentary commission set to investigate the tragic death of those citizens near Aghdam was disbanded by Heydar Aliyev’s decree and the investigative materials were encrypted.

The reality of the events, called the “Khojaly massacres” by Azerbaijan, is that some Azerbaijani armed groups cold-bloodedly shot dead the residents of Ivanyan (Khojaly) settlement in an area controlled by them.

The Karabakh side had informed the authorities of Khojaly about the planned operation and the safe humanitarian corridor in line with humanitarian norms. The existence of the corridor is confirmed by both sides, including the then President of Azerbaijan Ayaz Mutalibov and head of the Executive Power of Khojali District Elman Mammadov.

With all those facts, the Baku-based propagandists spare no efforts to ignore the well-known facts and testimonies.

Immediately after the tragic events that took place in the territories controlled by Azerbaijan, Azerbaijani journalist Chingiz Mustafayev photographed and video recorded the corpses of the dead, which were not deformed. While in the photos taken by the same Chingiz Mustafayev two days later, their corpses were awfully deformed with the skin of their heads taken away in order to demonstrate the “brutality and inhumanity of Armenians”.

The existing facts provide incontestable evidence that the Karabakh side could not physically enter the areas where people had been killed and deformed. Interestingly, the witness of the crimes Chingiz Mustafayev died during a journalistic investigation in the same place, in the vicinity of Aghdam a few months later under unclear circumstances.

After the usurpation of power in Baku (1992) following the provocation in Aghdam, the new leadership of Azerbaijan headed by Abulfaz Elchibey launched for distortion of the incidents organized by himself, presenting his provocation as a “massacre” of civilians by Karabakh forces. This policy continues by official Baku up till now.

By the distorted propaganda of the “Khojaly events”, the Azerbaijani authorities attempt to harm the international reputation of the two Armenian republics.

Heldar Aliyev, “pan-Azerbaijani leader, once had confessed that “the Azerbaijani former leadership was also to blame for the Khojaly events”. The perpetrators of the mass killing of Khojaly solved two problems simultaneously: They got rid of Mutalibov unwanted after the collapse of the USSR and gained an opportunity to accuse Armenians in applying inhumane methods of waging war.

This idea was confirmed recently by Azerbaijan’s Military Prosecutor Khanlar Veliyev, who announced that the Azerbaijani authorities were not only aware of the planned attack on Khojaly but did not even try to evacuate their citizens from there.

Generalizing the mentioned, it can be documented that the residents of Khojaly became the victims of political adventures for power in Azerbaijan, and the people who came to power later started to speculate on the issue.

Kamo Baghdasaryan