http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3527769/ISIS-fighter-captured-disguising-woman-putting-burka.html
202
20
See more news on ISIS militants at www.dailymail.co.uk/isis

However, Egyptian army soldiers caught him near Al-Arish, North Sinai

The alleged terrorist had dressed in a burka to try to sneak past troops

in Egypt tried to disguise himself as a woman

An ISIS fighter has reportedly been captured by the Egyptian army in Sinai, while dressed as a woman.

The jihadist was caught by government forces near the coastal city of Al-Arish, the capital of North Sina province, some 200 miles north-east of Cairo

The alleged terrorist had attempted to disguise himself as a woman by wearing a burka, and is believed to have been trying to defect from ISIS-affiliates in Sinai.

In disguise: Egyptian soldiers pose with a captured ISIS fighter dressed as a woman in a burka

An image posted by Twitter account Jihad Threat Monitor on Thursday morning, shows the captured terrorist surrounded by smiling and cheering Egyptian army soldiers.

The caption on the photo reads: 'Egyptian soldiers posing with alleged #ISIS operative dressed as a woman, captured in Al-Arish. #Sinai'

ISIS-affiliated extremists are in the midst of waging a bloody insurgency which has killed hundreds of soldiers and policeman in the Sinai Peninsula since Mohamed Morsi was overthrown as president in 2013.

The Foreign Office advises against all travel to North Sinai, where there are 'regular bomb attacks against government buildings and security forces', and all but essential travel to the south - with the exception of the heavily guarded Sharm el Sheikh resort area.

ISIS has claimed responsibility for the explosion which downed a a Russian passenger jet carrying holidaymakers over Sinai last October, killing all 224 people on board.

High risk: Bedouin protesters raise Al-Qaeda-affiliated flags on a watch tower of a Multinational Force and Observers (MFO) base in Egypt's Sinai Peninsula

Two men attacked a hotel in Hurghada in January, with several hotel residents suffering injuries in the attack.

Eighty-eight people were also massacred by Islamists at Sharm el-Sheikh in 2005, of whom 11 were Britons while six Britons were among the 62 murdered by Islamists at Luxor at 1997.

There has been calls for Egypt to increase security following the rise of violence, particularly with the growing threat of an ISIS franchise in Sinai.

Meanwhile, the US military is considering pulling troops from a base in the northeastern part of Sinai Peninsula, partly because of the increasing threat from ISIS jihadists, CNN reported.

The Obama administration may order the movement of some US and international troops into the southern Sinai, and is discussing such a move with Egypt and Israel.

The two Middle East countries signed a peace deal in 1979, agreeing that a Multinational Force and Observers (MFO) mission would monitor compliance.