http://www.socialistparty.org.uk/articles/22485/30-03-2016/kazakhstan-treatment-of-political-prisoners-condemned
202
20
Link to this page: http://www.socialistparty.org.uk/issue/895/22485

From The Socialist newspaper, 30 March 2016

Kazakhstan: Treatment of political prisoners condemned

On 10 March, MEPs in Strasbourg agreed a condemnation of the Kazakhstan's President Nazarbayev regime's treatment of political prisoners. Although the European Parliament has few powers (key decisions are made by council of ministers of member states) it puts more political pressure on the Kazakhstan regime.

Nazerbayev had brought forward the general election due later in the year to 20 March. As usual it was totally rigged (all six parties participating support Nazerbayev) but his aim is to try and claim a renewed 'legitimacy' and avoid mass protests when he steps up his programme of new privatisations and steep price rises.

Once again this dictator will want the workers and poor people of Kazakhstan to pay for the difficulties brought about by the fall in world oil prices.

Oppression

Over the years, many who oppose the dictatorship have been jailed. Administrative detention for two or three weeks is liberally doled out to those who organise or participate in protests - on the streets or on-line! Those who organise strikes or opposition parties can be sent down for years.

Vladimir Kozlov, mentioned in the European parliamentary debate, was the leader of an opposition capitalist party, Alga. While the CWI has fundamental political disagreements with Alga, we stand for the defence of democratic rights.

He was sentenced to seven and a half years in prison soon after the December 2011 massacre of striking oil workers in Zhanaozen. His 'crimes' were "inciting social discord", making "calls for the overthrow of the constitutional order" and "the establishment of a criminal organisation".

Vadim Kuramshin was a lawyer who exposed the barbaric treatment of inmates in Kazakhstan's prisons. In his trial on false charges of extortion, a jury actually found him innocent. He was released, only to be re-arrested and imprisoned for 12 years in a 'strict regime' colony.

Aron Atabek, a writer and poet, was involved with hundreds of protesters in the struggle to save a shanty town called Shanyrak from destruction by bulldozers in 2006. He was arrested and accused of killing a policeman and sent down for no less than 18 years. 'Witnesses' in his trial later confessed to being blackmailed to give false evidence against Aron, but no retrial has been granted.

The resolution discussed in Strasbourg alludes to the deteriorating situation for journalists and activists in Kazakhstan. It points to the regime being particularly sensitive in the run-up to 'Expo 2017' - the International Fair in Astana, the country's capital.

A model resolution to send to the Kazakhstan authorities, supporting the demands of the Europarliamentarians in relation to the three named political prisoners, and going further to demand their release, can be found on the website of Campaign Kazakhstan (www.campaignkazakhstan.org).

The imprisoned activists and their legal representatives would like to see copies of these resolutions and they would be particularly encouraged by a flood of personal letters to them at the addresses also given there.

Why not click here to join the Socialist Party, or click here to donate to the Socialist Party.

In The Socialist 30 March 2016:

Socialist Party news and analysis

We demand a real living wage

Teachers and school students march against forced academies

Academy chain axed in head's pay scandal

Disabled activists shame tory cutters

1% worried

What we saw

Them & Us

International socialist news and analysis

Belgium: Far right attack vigil for Brussels victims

Kazakhstan: Treatment of political prisoners condemned

International news in brief

European Union referendum

Why socialists should vote to leave the EU

Vote against the EU - but no unity with Tories or UKIP

Socialist Party workplace news

Solidarity with junior doctors

NUT to ballot for action over academies

Museum workers strike to defend pay

Greenwich labour councillors given the red card

Lambeth: Librarians walk out over cuts and privatisation

Tube workers' strike shuts Piccadilly Line

Workplace news in brief

Socialist Party reports and campaigns

'No forced academies' demonstrations

Swansea: Fascist thugs made to look pathetic

All you need is love - and a stall!

Socialist Party comments and reviews

Featured letter: 'Universal Jobmatch' con: 'Rabbit trail' of recurring, non-existent job ads

Enter Shikari review: A kaleidoscope of colour

Letter: Inadequate academies

Socialist Party feature

Fighting the great tax robbery: taxes and regulation or socialist nationalisation?

Home | The Socialist 30 March 2016 | Join the Socialist Party