http://freakoutnation.com/2016/04/newtown-connecticut-middle-school-teacher-charged-after-bringing-gun-to-school/
202
20
A middle school science teacher in Newtown, Connecticut, was charged on Wednesday after he was found carrying a gun at school, according to the police.

46-year-old Jason M. Adams was seen walking into Newtown Middle School with the concealed firearm, according to police, according to CBS News.

Adams was detained by school security until officers arrived on the scene and arrested him. The teacher was charged with possession of a weapon on school grounds.

In a statement released Wednesday, Newtown Police Chief James Viadero said that Adams does has a valid pistol permit, but he is not authorized to carry a weapon on school property.

The Newtown Public School system said in the statement while calling the matter ‘serious,’ that Adams has been placed on administrative leave, pending an investigation.

“This matter is very serious and troubling, both the Newtown Public School system and the Newtown Police Department took immediate steps to address the matter,” Newtown schools said in the statement.

Police said that Adams had violated a school policy.

December marked the third anniversary of the Sandy Hook Elementary School massacre in Newtown, Connecticut, when a 20-year-old gunman fatally shot 20 children aged between 6 and 7 years old, as well as six adult staff member. Before that, the gunman shot and killed his mother, Nancy Lanza. She was shot four times.

The shooter knew weapons well, and had been shooting since he was four-years-old. When police arrived at the home, they found a virtual arsenal, with guns and ammunition everywhere and even a gun safe in the gunman’s bedroom.

The massacre rocked the town to its core. And to this day, the townspeople will never forget December 14th, 2012.

Still yet, this science teacher felt the need to walk around with his weapon while disregarding school policy. The smirk on his face in the mugshot (featured image) speaks volumes. It must be an inside joke or something. No one else is laughing.

Image: Newtown police.