http://www.nydailynews.com/news/national/newtown-parents-furious-teacher-arrested-gun-article-1.2591734
202
20
Stunned Newtown parents offered no sympathy Thursday for a veteran science teacher busted after bringing a concealed weapon into a middle school building.

“Whatever his reasoning was ... it’s the absolutely wrong place,” said Melissa Schafrath, 40, whose son is an eighth grader at the Newtown Middle School. “What the hell were you thinking?”

NEWTOWN TEACHER ARRESTED FOR ALLEGEDLY CARRYING GUN INTO SCHOOL

Jason Adams was arrested Wednesday morning after entering Newtown Middle School with a gun. (AP)

Teacher Jason Adams, 46, of Newtown, was arrested Wednesday morning after arriving with the concealed weapon around 9 a.m.

He was charged with possession of a weapon on school grounds and placed on leave from his job of 10 years.

“Let he who is without sin cast the first stone,” said Terry O’Connell, 60, who has a daughter in the eighth grade. “But was it a poor choice? My opinion is yes ... He did violate the law.”

Adams has yet to explain why he brought the gun to school in the Connecticut town where 20 first-graders and six staffers were massacred by a lone gunman in December 2012.

But he was quickly taken into custody by the middle school’s armed security guard and hustled out by police before students became aware of any problem, according to an email from school officials to parents.

Adams was arrested after another employee spotted him with the gun. Students didn’t arrive until about 20 minutes later, with the delayed opening caused by a scheduled teacher development session.

Adams arrived at Newtown Middle School in Connecticut with the concealed weapon around 9 a.m. (Google Earth)

“To their credit, my son didn’t know while he was at school,” said Schafrath. “He saw the police, but didn’t know what it was for. There probably would have been chaos if everyone knew.”

Newtown Schools Superintendent Joseph Erardi invited parents to a Thursday evening community forum to answer any questions about the arrest.

Adams has yet to explain why he brought the gun to school in the Connecticut town where 20 first-graders and six staffers were massacred in December 2012. (Jessica Hill/AP)

Adams was licensed to carry the weapon, but Connecticut law bars anyone from bringing a gun into a school building.

“It’s probably in bad judgement, particularly where we live,” said another eighth-grader’s dad. “I have friends who are gun enthusiasts, and I get where they’re coming from.

“But the fact is it’s illegal. You can’t do it.”