http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3489717/Dunblane-massacre-pathologist-tells-s-haunted-horrors-witnessed-walked-gym.html
202
20
Mourners have left dozens of bouquets of flowers at the gates of Dunblane Primary School to mark the 20th anniversary of the massacre which saw 16 children murdered.

A special church service has been held to remember those who died and people have visited the school throughout the day to pay their respects.

The pathologist who identified the bodies of the children has spoken of the harrowing experience on the 20th anniversary of the tragedy.

Hundreds of bouquets of flowers were today left at the gravesides of the 16 schoolchildren and their teacher who died in the Dunblane shootings on March 13, 1996

Mourners also left floral tributes at the gates of Dunblane Primary School to mark the anniversary

Sixteen young Primary One pupils lost their lives, as did class teacher Gewn Mayor (left). Those who died included Kevin Hasell, 5 (back row, third from left); David Kerr, 5 (back row, third from right), Charlotte Dunn, 5 (second row, second from left), Emily Morton, 5 (second row, third from left); Joanna Ross, 5 (second row, middle), Emma Crozier, 5 (second row, third from right), Abigail McLennan, 5 (front row, left), Sophie North, 5 (front row, second from left), Hannah Scott, 5 (front row, third from left), Megan Turner, 5 (front row, middle), Mhairi McBeath, 5 (front row, second from right)

Anthony Busuttil was called in to examine the scene after Thomas Hamilton shot dead 16 young children and their teacher before turning the gun on himself on March 13, 1996.

Mr Busuttil described walking into the gym at Dunblane Primary School as the 'hardest thing' he ever had to do, and chillingly said that killer Hamilton's 'black-clad body' had 'looked like Mussolini from a distance, with a black shirt and combat ­trousers'.

'I hit my wall when I entered the gym at Dunblane,' Professor Busuttil told the Sunday Mirror. 'It was the hardest thing I ever had to do to keep my legs moving forward.

'You could not go into that gym, you could not work with the bodies of five-year-olds at the hospital and not be incredibly moved.'

Disgraced former Scout leader Hamilton was 43 when he carried out the planned execution of innocents, first cutting the school's telephone wires before making his way to the gym hall armed with four legally-held handguns and hundreds of rounds of ammunition.

Monsignor Basil O'Sullivan marks the 20th Anniversary of the Dunblane Primary School shootings with a candle in front of memorial stained-glass windows in Holy Family Church in Dunblane today

A service was held today at Holy Family Church where victims of the 1996 shooting were remembered

Hundreds of people attended the emotionally charged gathering at the Church of the Holy Family

Inside the gym, 28 primary one pupils were preparing for PE class as he entered and began shooting, killing 16 children and their teacher Gwen Mayor and injuring 15 others.

The massacre, which happened shortly after 9.30am in the Stirlingshire town, shocked the nation and led to the UK enforcing some of the strictest firearms legislation in the world.

Hamilton became a Scout leader in 1973, at the age of 20, but was asked to leave the following year because of complaints about his behaviour at camp.

Flowers have been left at this memorial which is in the spot where the demolished gymnasium stood

A special church service has been held to remember those who died and people have visited the school throughout the day to pay their respects

Two-year-old Joel McHarg leaves flowers at the memorial to the children and their teacher at the town's cemetery today

The massacre, which happened shortly after 9.30am in the Stirlingshire town, shocked the nation and led to the UK enforcing some of the strictest firearms legislation in the world

In a BBC documentary to mark the anniversary, former head teacher Ron Taylor, 63, described how he is still consumed with guilt by the tragedy.

'It was unimaginably horrible to see children dying in front of you. I felt enormous guilt - more than a survivor's guilt. It was my school, I felt violated,' he said.

'As a headteacher what happened to me that day was the worst experience any headteacher could have. People have to cope in their own way.

A minute of silence was held for victims of the school massacre before the Six Nations rugby match between Scotland and France at Murrayfield in Edinburgh

IN MEMORY OF THOSE WHO DIED Victoria Clydesdale, 5, Emma Crozier, 5, Melissa Currie, 5, Charlotte Dunn, 5, Kevin Hasell, 5, Ross Irvine, 5, David Kerr, 5, Mhairi MacBeath, 5, Brett McKinnon, 6, Abigail McLennan, 5, Emily Morton, 5, Sophie North, 5, John Petrie, 5, Joanna Ross, 5, Hannah Scott, 5, Megan Turner, 5, Gwen Mayor (45, class teacher)

'One of the things I have at home is a box full of newspaper articles.

'And it includes my own written version of the events of the day and I did that to help. I locked it away and thankfully I have never looked at it again.'

Police Scotland released a statement ahead of the anniversary of the tragedy.

Stirling Local Area Commander, Chief Inspector Paul Rollo, said: 'This terrible incident cast a shadow on the town and on Sunday we will join together in remembrance and to celebrate the vibrant community which has overcome such tragedy.

A police officer in the playground of Dunblane Primary School a day after Hamilton ruthlessly opened fire

The killer: Thomas Hamilton was 43 when he went on a killing rampage in Dunblane Primary School, shooting dead 16 children and their teacher before turning the gun on himself. Pathologist Anthony Busuttil was tasked with examining the scene in the aftermath of the tragedy

'Our local officers are embedded in the community and as always will offer support to the people of Dunblane this weekend and going forward.'

East of Scotland Assistant Chief Constable Kate Thomson added: 'Much has changed in 20 years, but the shock and sadness is still felt by people throughout Scotland and further afield, including police officers who served in Central Scotland Police and elsewhere at the time, and those who have joined the service since.