http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3569053/Syrian-war-criminals-face-trial-Germany-include-home-grown-terrorist-posed-decapitated-heads-leader-notorious-Islamist-group.html
202
20
Another is the alleged leader of Islamist group that kidnaps and tortures

Germany is due to begin its first ever trials over atrocities committed in Syria, further raising fears that terrorists are sneaking into the country among refugees.

The suspects to appear in court this week include a man who was pictured posing with severed heads, the leader of a notorious Islamist group and a Syrian who is accused of kidnapping a UN soldier.

Authorities have been dealing with 25 to 30 tip-offs every day from asylum seekers reporting possible jihadis who could be looking to carry out lone wolf attacks on German soil.

Prosecutors have so far examined 127 cases and heard 4,500 witnesses but this effort led to only four trials, including a conviction for genocide.

The first case to be heard in Frankfurt tomorrow is that of a German national who posted pictures of himself posing with the heads of two decapitated civilians on Facebook (file photo of ISIS terrorists)

'Ten investigations linked to Syria or Iraq are currently being examined by the federal prosecutor,' said a spokesman for the prosecutor's office.

These make but some of more than 30 cases against former jihadists over their membership to a terrorist group.

The first case to be heard in Frankfurt tomorrow is that of German national Aria L, 21, who posted photos of himself with two decapitated heads on Facebook after travelling to the Middle East posing as a volunteer.

Another key war crimes suspect, Syrian born Ibrahim al-F, 41, is thought to be the leader of an Islamist rebel group known for kidnapping and torturing civilians in Aleppo.

While his fellow countryman Suliman A.S, 24, is suspected of having kidnapped a UN soldier in 2013.

Investigations had to be stepped up following the arrival 1.1million asylum seekers in Germany last year - around 40 per cent of whom fled the wars in Syria and Iraq.

But since 2013, refugees looking to settle in Germany have had to complete a form asking if they have witnessed war crimes or could name perpetrators of violations.

Authorities have been dealing with 25 to 30 tip-offs every day from asylum seekers (pictured, migrants arriving in Munich) reporting possible jihadis

Prosecutors have so far examined 127 cases and heard 4,500 witnesses but this effort led to only four trials of potential jihadis (pictured, an ISIS terrorist in Syria)

'The refugee influx has provided new opportunities for prosecutors to collect specific information,' said Geraldine Mattioli, expert on international justice at Human Rights Watch.

Investigators dealing with Syrian cases face the additional challenge of access because - with war still raging in the country - they are unable to travel there to gather evidence.

While propaganda images posted by jihadist fighters on social networks offer a glimpse of the atrocities, it is difficult to authenticate the photos or their provenance.

But with the mass arrivals of refugees, Germany is taking a proactive stance by collecting information little by little, and organising it by country, rather than waiting for specific accusations before taking action.

The hope is that each piece of information being collected could one day help build a broader picture or point to a specific trend.

Germany is no stranger to trying war crimes committed abroad, although past attempts have been met with mixed success.

In 1993, pushed by an inflow of refugees fleeing the war in Yugoslavia, Germany formed a special police unit dedicated to investigating war crimes committed in the Balkans.

Other European countries took similar action, with one of the most active investigations carried out by Dutch police.

Investigations into potential jihadis had to be stepped up following the arrival 1.1million asylum seekers in Germany last year (pictured, migrants off the coast of the Italian island of Lampedusa)

Since 2013, refugees looking to settle in Germany (pictutred, Chancellor Angela Merkel who adopted an open door policy to refugees) have had to complete a form asking if they have witnessed war crimes

Undeterred, the prosecution service sought ways to refine their procedure, becoming more sophisticated in tackling cases involving massacres in Africa's Great Lakes region.

There, the judiciary dispatched its investigators to collect evidence on the ground and sought to offer better protection for witnesses.

The painstaking task led to the convictions of two Rwandan rebel leaders for masterminding massacres in eastern Democratic Republic of Congo from their homes in Germany.