http://www.nairaland.com/3077035/herdmen-cattle-front-cbn-abuja
203
20
Nairaland Forum / Nairaland / General / Politics / Herdmen And Their Cattle In Front Of CBN In Abuja(photo) (46003 Views)

Between Saraki And Bola Tinubu In Abuja - Photo / Names Of Beneficiaries Of CBN Illegal Recrutiment+photos - Sahara Reporters / Former Pres. Goodluck Jonathan Spotted At Bank In Abuja (photo) (1) (2) (3) (4)

(0) (1) (2) (3) (4) (Reply) (Go Down)

These guys really feel they can do what even they feel like doing now. How can they be roaming around with cows during night ? Not just night alone in the Federal Capital City for that matter. Mr President needs to act fast on this issue as soon as possible because it is getting out of hands, Cows now drag's road with cars! I think these guys have taken more than what they chew. 24 Likes 1 Share

Well hmmm

Nice one 5 Likes

I dey come

tommykiwi:

These guys really feel they can do what even they like now. How can they be roaming around with cows during night ? Not just night alone in the Federal Capital City for that matter. Hope Mr President needs to act on this issue as soon as possible. Cows now dragging road with cars! Ask Lugard! Ask Lugard! 76 Likes 8 Shares

What is the matter with this people? I think it's high time I brought out my dad's gun 26 Likes 5 Shares

guess there will be the first grazing ground where FG will cultivate n store the imported grass. senseless cows lead my same. 23 Likes 3 Shares

That's not too good mehn.

takeCOWBELLMILKforSANITY 2 Likes

Their impunity have been overwhelming since Buhari became president 134 Likes 12 Shares

Fulani herdsmen don turn celebrities! And we are their paparazzi

First in awka now this. 51 Likes 3 Shares

This country is a zooo. He said it and he was jailed now I have confirmed it 99 Likes 7 Shares

You live in a Zoo.

Is Zoo not where animals live and roam?



The moment you put your house in order, you won't see even a rat in the street. 64 Likes 4 Shares

With the deafening silence of the Presidency, not too long from now, with the expanding ethnic cleansing by these nomadic terrorists with absolutely no concept of boundaries, we may as well see a Fulani Caliphate brewing faster than we can in Nigeria!



-CramJones 37 Likes 1 Share

This media hype is getting out of hands oooooooo





But wait ooooo, APC used the media to kick PDP out.



Did they suddenly forget hw to use that weapon? or what the heck is happening?



By the way, this is terrible photoshoping.



only an utter simpleton will fall for this. 6 Likes 1 Share

Chai! 1 Like

My fellow countrymen, don't believe everything you are told... 1 Like







E get wetin I wan talk but as I just dey come back from a ban, make I pipe low This country sefE get wetin I wan talk but as I just dey come back from a ban, make I pipe low 3 Likes 2 Shares

If they can roam freely in Abuja, then Anambra and Enugu re certified grazing fields 9 Likes



Say nonsense here and get banned Citizens right of free movement!Say nonsense here and get banned

They will soon enter that Abuja stadium and eat up the synthetic grass. Kudos guys! 8 Likes 2 Shares

hmmmmmmmm 31 Likes 4 Shares

Beautiful!

Cows and Men

Ogonimilitant:

Their impunity has been overwhelming since Buhari became president 1 Like

Op show some respect, those are presidential cows... 5 Likes

cramjones:

dfsdf So cram too dey..... So cram too dey..... 1 Like

Beanhead:

What is the matter with this people? I think it's high time I brought out my dad's gun I would like to rent it when u find it. I don't know where my wife drop my gun I would like to rent it when u find it. I don't know where my wife drop my gun 2 Likes 2 Shares

this country is a joke 7 Likes