http://www.the-review.com/editors%20pick/2016/04/29/still-no-answers-in-massacre-of-pike-county-family
203
20
Still no answers in massacre of Pike County family By ANDREW WELSH-HUGGINS Associated Press Published: April 29, 2016 3:00 AM





1 of 3 Photos | View More Photos

PIKETON -- From her house on Union Hill Road, Brittany Barker heard the first sirens first thing in the morning. She looked out and saw four police vehicles rush past. That was only the beginning.

"They just kept coming, kept coming, and kept coming," she recalled.

Authorities in this struggling corner of Appalachia were dealing with what turned out to be one of the worst mass killings in Ohio history: Eight family members were shot to death at four homes scattered across a few miles of countryside in what investigators have portrayed as a meticulously planned "execution." Nearly all were shot repeatedly -- one, nine times -- and some were also beaten.

What looked to some people like a feud within a family, possibly a murder-suicide, soon took on a more sinister cast when authorities disclosed a large-scale illegal marijuana growing operation at one of the crime scenes and said pot was being cultivated at some of the other homes, too. Ohio's attorney general also said there were signs of cockfighting at one of the properties.

Nearly a week after the killings, though, authorities have announced no arrests and no motive, an unsettling silence considering the huge investigative force brought to bear in this thinly populated county where many people either knew the victims or knew of them.

See also - Giants release kicker Brown]





[Article continues below]

Since the discovery of the bodies April 22, over 215 law enforcement officers have been involved in the investigation, with several hundred tips received and more than 50 people interviewed.

Attorney General Mike DeWine has said he doesn't want to telegraph the killer or killers what investigators know.

Relatives of the victims said they were surprised by the marijuana. Some neighbors said they had heard rumors. And some said the marijuana growing was a case of courting trouble.

"If you don't go around bad places, the odds of something bad happening to you are pretty slim," said Ron Lucas, a paper mill worker who lives a few miles from where the killings took place.

See also - Half a year after 8 relatives killed, no answers or arrests]





But Angie Tolliver, a home health aide, said that whatever connection drugs may have had to the slayings, "Nobody deserves that. That's just evil."

[Article continues below]

While the cleanup of a shuttered Cold War-era uranium plant employs hundreds of people in some of the best-paying jobs around town, about one-fifth of Pike County's 28,000 residents live in poverty, and the area roughly 80 miles east of Cincinnati consistently has some of Ohio's highest unemployment and drug overdose death rates.

Investigators won't say if the killings are related to the marijuana, and law enforcement officials not associated with the investigation cast doubt on any cartel connection, saying there are no signs of it in Ohio.

Meanwhile, Cincinnati-area restaurateur Jeff Ruby tweeted Thursday that he is withdrawing the $25,000 reward he had offered for information leading to an arrest and conviction. He cited "recent complex criminal developments." A message left with his spokeswoman was not immediately returned.

Neighbors accustomed to leaving doors open are settling into a nervous new reality. Sheriff's deputies sit round-the-clock in cruisers on either end of Union Hill Road, keeping out everyone but residents, approved visitors and investigators.

See also - Chalkboard Chatter ]





Guns are a staple in these wooded hills, where neighbors say they wouldn't think twice about opening fire if an unfamiliar figure showed up with a weapon. A $10 fund raising raffle for a local Masonic lodge offers a Bushmaster XM-15 semi-automatic rifle as first prize.

Some people in the area said they are scared, but most seem to believe the victims were targeted and the killers long gone.

"Somebody that slaughters a whole family wouldn't stay here," said Ray Goldsberry.

Law enforcement authorities have pretty much suggested the same thing, though Sheriff Charles Reader said: "If you are fearful, arm yourself."

Barker, the neighbor who saw the first emergency vehicles scream past, said that if she were in any danger, she probably would have been killed the night of the slayings. But she also said her peaceful surroundings don't feel like home now.

"It just feels kind of strange knowing that they're not there anymore," she said.

Rate this article

Do you want to leave a comment? Please Log In or Register to comment.