http://www.theglobeandmail.com/life/facts-and-arguments/struggling-to-part-ways-with-my-refugee-students-as-retirement-looms/article28147724/
203
20
ESL teachers are gatekeepers, often the first Canadians new immigrants and refugees come to know. I have encountered them literally upon arrival, their suitcases, plastic bags or cardboard boxes still in hand. But as the wave of Syrian refugees makes its way to English classes in Vancouver, it is with some regret that I realize I won’t be teaching them. Retirement nears, and it is time to look back.

Facts & Arguments is a daily personal piece submitted by readers. Have a story to tell? See our guidelines at tgam.ca/essayguide .

There are few places where so many nationalities congregate daily as at language school. All get hungry at lunchtime, tuckered out by the end of the day, bored by the past-perfect tense and het up by competitive games. I could make sweeping generalizations and say which groups get too het up over competitive games, but that would be non-PC. Nor will I divulge which groups tend to give the teacher inordinate respect, which ones less so; who’s most likely to open a small business or who will work as house cleaners. Politicians have overlooked ESL teachers as a font of information. A font!

In class, newcomers with PhDs sit alongside those with no formal education. Pretty well everyone is somewhat ethnocentric. I’ve heard myriad ways that their home cities surpass Vancouver:

“Back home, we can visit without calling ahead; here, we must plan.”

“In my city, it is noisy all night. Here, nights are too quiet.”

“Our kindergarten is like your university.”

I’ve been taken aback by confidences: “I know female circumcision isn’t legal here, but I found someone to do it for my daughter!” one student excitedly told me.

I’ve shared a lot of multiethnic potluck meals and noticed students becoming less wary about tasting each other’s foods. In summer, we had barbecues and I learned how to say chivapchichi – Serbo-Croatian for sausage. I can say “I love you” in 18 languages: dooset daram (Farsi), mahal kita (Tagalog), ya tibye lyublyu (Russian) …

I’ve learned about life under communism, “ethnic cleansing,” dictatorship and civil war; heard about hunger, refugee camps, hiding in the jungle, incarceration for political beliefs. I’ve seen shell shock, culture shock and post-traumatic stress. I have seen a little boy in a man’s body and had to imagine him slinging an AK-47. On one field trip, my students were shocked when I asked directions from a police officer.

Students who come from warring countries usually work peacefully together, but occasionally they’ll sit on opposite sides of the room.

If I’ve ever felt dissatisfied with my worldly fortune, I thought about how my students managed with so much less. I bought a birthday cake for a woman turning 32.

“Why are you crying?” I asked.

“It’s my first birthday cake.”