http://www.veteranstoday.com/2016/05/10/the-execution-of-six-pow-prisoners-afghan-villagers-is-a-war-crime/
203
20
To the Honorable United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights

Mr. Zai Ra’ad Al Hussein

Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights(OHCHR)

Palais Wilson

52 rue des Pâquis

CH-1201 Geneva, Switzerland

RE: The Execution of Six POW Prisoners /Afghan Villagers is a War Crime. Is the UN also U.S. Secretary John Kerry’s puppet like Ashraf Ghani and Abdullah Abdullah? Is the United Nations Doing Anything to Stop These War Crimes? Why is the United Nations Not Investigating?

Dear High Commissioner Al Hussein:

During the fifteen years of the U.S invasion and occupation of Afghanistan, the genocide, massacring, torturing, raping slaughtering of several hundred thousand innocent Afghan villagers are war crimes and human rights violations. The United States, NATO, the U.S. selected and installed puppet Ashraf Ghani, Abdullah and their administrations and others have committed war crimes in Afghanistan. It includes President Obama, NATO Secretary General and other top officials and military leaders in their administrations. If you look at the definition of terrorism, I believe these are the real terrorists, who have and are terrorizing the Afghan civilians especially in the villages. I believe the United Nations needs to stop blaming the victims and protecting the superpowers and their puppets and agents and start investigating and prosecuting those individuals, who have perpetrated and/or are the architects of the war and responsible for the war crimes committed against the Afghan civilians.



Once again war crimes are being committed against Afghan villagers, mostly Pashtun, by the United States and its Afghan Northern Alliance puppet thugs and the United Nations does nothing. On April 19, 2016 in Pul-e- Mahmud Khan, a bomb exploded in Kabul near the palace, ISAF and the national security office, which has been referred to as the “CIA’s torture chamber”. It has been reported that the Afghan villager, who was the bomber, had been raped and tortured in that CIA torture site. Then, just recently, in revenge, on May 8, 2016, the Secretary Kerry “selected” and “installed” Afghan puppet administration executed six Afghan prisoners of war (“POWS”) in Pul -e-Charkhi. These POW’s were executed in violation of the Geneva Conventions. It has been reported that these six prisoners were not provided with the legal procedures and process under international law. These sudden executions of the six Afghan villagers /POWS were in retaliation for the bombing in Kabul. Thousands (1000s) more Afghan Pashtun villagers, who are being held in these prisons and CIA torture sites, the majority who are innocent and have never received any legal process and brought to trial, are now being threatened with execution as retaliation. The U.S. and its Afghan Northern Alliance thugs have a thirst for revenge and Afghan blood. The United States and its puppet Afghan administrators need to stop the war crimes and human rights violations against the Afghan villagers. The United Nations needs to do its job.



The United States with its puppet Northern Alliance thugs like communist war criminal Rashid Dostum, who is currently the First Vice President of Afghanistan, has committed and covered up war crimes since its initial unlawful invasion of Afghanistan. Dostum has been and more than likely is still on the CIA payroll. It has been repeatedly reported by reliable sources that the U.S. covered up the war crimes of Dasht-e-Leilli Massacre in 2001. The United States has stopped and has impeded any and all investigations of these war crimes. The United Nations had asked the Taliban fighters to surrender. Taliban fighters surrendered in accordance with international law. Yet they were suffocated and massacred in containers by Afghan military forces acting jointly with United States’ forces and under U.S. command in Dasht-e-Leili near Sherbeghan, Afghanistan. Communist war criminal Rashid Dostum, who was on the CIA payroll, was one of the commanders responsible for these war crimes. To this day, no one has been prosecuted for these war crimes. The United Nations has done nothing. An appalling fact is: Rashid Dostum has been rewarded by the United States with steady money and high positions in the United States’ Afghan puppet administration. First Deputy Defense Minister and now First Vice President.

Besides the war crimes committed during the first months of the United States’ unlawful invasion of Afghanistan and occupation, the documented war crimes committed these past 15 years against Afghan villagers are too numerous to list in this letter. It would require volumes. I will only mention a few more recent examples. On December 10, 2014, a U.S. led drone strike killed five students in the Ghorband Seyagard District of Parwan Province. Local villagers say the students, who were between 12 and 16 years old, were preparing for their yearly exams outside in the field. Everyday all over Afghanistan these U.S. drones kill Afghan civilians especially Pashtun tribal leaders, religious scholars and students. These are war crimes! On January 1, 2015, more than fifty Afghan/Pashtun civilians, many women and children, were targeted and killed, while attending a wedding in Sangin District in Helmand Province. When will the perpetrators of these war crimes be prosecuted? On February 1, 2015 in Qisar district of northern Faryab province about 200 Afghan homes were bulldozed destroyed by the puppet Ghani’s Afghan army. Some civilians were killed including women and children. These war crimes need to be investigated and prosecuted. On February 16, 2015, the United States’ private contractors/ mercenaries and the Afghan puppet Ghani government bulldozed one hundred homes, destroyed two hundred shops and bombed an elementary school with a drone killing Pashtun children in the Village of Malmand in Helmand Province. These are war crimes. The United Nations has done nothing. I ask again, when will these war crimes be investigated and prosecuted? Is the United Nations also a puppet of the United States? It appears so.

Why did the United States invade and occupy Afghanistan? Why does the United States want to perpetuate this war and remain in Afghanistan? It is all about the vast deposits of Rare Earth Elements (REEs) in Afghanistan! As revealed in congressional records, the United States was looking for a new supply chain for REEs since China controlled the only other major supply chain of REEs. The United States wants to control and stock pile these REEs. Afghanistan has these REEs. The U.S. Pentagon in one of its internal memorandum referred to Afghanistan as “… the Saudi Arabia of Lithium.” The U.S. sent down geologists with special operations forces into the REE deposits of the Helmand region at the start of the invasion. The U.S. even knew about these REEs deposits before the war. I believe that is the real reason for the invasion, continued occupation and covert war and genocide against the Pashtun villagers These REEs, such as lithium, are worth trillions and vital to the manufacture of technology and defense systems. They are used for batteries, laptops etc. Due to the United States’ goal of controlling the Afghans’ REEs, these innocent civilians, mainly Pashtun villagers are being terrorized. Their homes are being bulldozed and destroyed. They are being killed, tortured, raped, wrongfully imprisoned in large numbers, executed and forced to relocate. This covert war against the Pashtun villagers needs to stop and the war criminals prosecuted in lawful tribunals. Unfortunately, I believe this illegal covert war against the Afghan/Pashtun is likely to continue because of the REEs and Afghanistan strategic location. The U.S. and NATO invaded Afghanistan to stay. Permanent occupation is planned as evidenced by the recent statements of U.S. Defense Minister Carter while he was in Afghanistan.

Based on what has occurred the past fifteen years, it is obvious that in order to achieve its goals of controlling the REEs and maintaining permanent military bases in Afghanistan, the U.S. government is trying to eliminate the native population, the Pashtun. The U.S. government is trying to eliminate the Pashtun tribe, which is the largest native tribe in the world . Anyone, who has with knowledge about what is happening on the ground, knows that the Pashtun tribal leaders, Pashtun intellectuals and religious leaders are being killed and eliminated by the U.S. and its puppets with their weapon of choice being drones. The Pashtun villagers are being raped, killed and forced out of their homes after their villages are bulldozed or bombed, especially in the Helmand region because the Pashtun’s land contains the largest untapped REEs worth trillions. The U.S. and its puppets are destroying their villages, killing those who defend themselves, raping the women and children and forcing them to leave. These tactics sound really familiar to me.

I believe history does repeat itself. This U.S. imperialistic campaign of genocide against the native Pashtun tribe and the theft of the Pashtun’s home land and REEs is exactly what the United States has done to the Native American tribes in the U.S. in the past centuries. The U.S. tactics of killing the leaders of the Native American tribes, who resisted occupation, is being implemented today in the Pashutn villages. Even today Native American tribes experience their lands being taken because of minerals deposits like valuable gold. The U.S. tactics of forced relocation, theft of the native tribe’s land rich in valuable resources, and divide and conquer are being implemented against the native Pashtun tribe, who pose the only threat to the United States’ achievement of its goals. Self-defense is a right recognized under international law.

It reminds me of the forced relocation of the Cherokee Native American tribe, who resisted the U.S. invader/occupier in the 19thcentury. In 1824-25, the U.S. killed the Cherokee leaders, seized the valuable Cherokee land, and forced the Cherokees to relocate to undesirable, strange land called the “Indian territory.” This war crime is referred to as the “Trail of Tears”. Does this sound familiar? Now, a few greedy Afghan puppets are signing agreements with the U.S., Afghan/Pashtun land rich in REEs is being seized with villages destroyed , Pashtun tribal leaders are being executed , and Pashtuns are being forcefully relocated to “tribal” territory.

The New York Times wrote an article about the REEs in 2010 in which it referred to Afghanistan as becoming “…one of the most important mining centers in the world, the United States officials believe.” It is not about fighting terrorism. It is about the U.S. fighting for control of the Afghan people’s REEs. It is obvious that the U.S. and NATO will fight anyone that gets in their way. The Pashtun villagers are in their way because this REE rich-land is their land and as history has shown they cherish their freedom and defend their homeland. I believe this is why genocide and other war crimes are being committed now against the Afghan/Pashtun villagers . The REEs are the reason that the United States selects and installs puppet Afghan administrators, many who are thugs and killers like Dostum, and perpetuates this war.

Afghan/Pashtun villagers will not benefit from the REEs. Only the U.S., other countries, global mining companies, Afghan puppets and war profiteers such as Zalmay Khalizad, Ghani family, Karzai family, and northern alliance thugs. Please do your job. Please investigate and prosecute these war crimes and human rights violations. Justice delayed is justice denied. If there is no justice there can be no peace.

Sincerely,

Abdul Kadir Mohmand

6147 Old Log Trail

Kalamazoo, MI 49009

(269) 353-7044

Related Posts: