http://schema-root.org/region/oceania/australia/foreign_embassies/indonesia/
202
20
updated Wed. November 2, 2016

-

Canberra Weekender: What's on October 28-30 10.30am Indonesia N FESTIVAL Indonesia Festival is one of the biggest celebrations of Indonesian cultural exhibition in Canberra. Experience the unique Indonesian ... Indonesian Embassy, 8 Darwin Avenue, Yarralumla. Free entry. Until 6pm. 11am andÃ‚Â ...

Australians have 'warmfeeling' toward Indonesia Indonesian embassy in Canberra , Australia. The opinions expressedÃ‚Â ... Third, the number of samples for the surveys in Australia was about 2,000 respondents to represent 25 million Australians . The number of Indonesian ... The writer is spokesperson for the, Australia. The opinions expressedÃ‚Â ...

Australians have 'warmfeeling' toward Indonesia Indonesian embassy in Canberra , Australia. The opinions expressedÃ‚Â ... Third, the number of samples for the surveys in Australia was about 2,000 respondents to represent 25 million Australians . The number of Indonesian ... The writer is spokesperson for the, Australia. The opinions expressedÃ‚Â ...

Celebrating away from home Celebrating away from home On your mark: Indonesians living in Budapest prepare to start their Merdeka bike ride in front of the Indonesian Embassy on Wednesday. The participants sang Indonesian songs throughout the tour, while showing off theirÃ‚Â ...

RI views Oz positively, Oz views RI negatively: Study Indonesians generally view Australians in a positive light even though their neighbors Down Under might not feel the same way, a recent study has shown, giving weight to the widely-held perception of a "love-hate" relationship between the two countries.

Trade Minister Steve Ciobo to visit Jakarta to shore up free trade deal Former trade minister Andrew Robb sits next to the Indonesia n embassy's deputy chief of mission, Kusuma Habir, at the Indonesia Business Summit in Canberra last year. Photo: Alex Ellinghausen. "The trade relationship is underweight - both Mr LembongÃ‚Â ...

Bali Nine mother pleads with Jokowi to stop executions The executions that have been planned for this week have triggered a response from the family of a Bali Nine member, Myuran Sukumaran, who was executed on Nusakambangan prison island last year.

Bali Nine mother begs Jokowi to stop executions I do know my son who you brutally took from me last year as he was executed in the most horrible way," Raji Sukumaran wrote in the letter sent to Jokowi via the Indonesian embassy in Canberra and shared with media outlets. Sukumaran demanded thatÃ‚Â ...

Indonesia in West Papua the spokesperson from the Indonesian embassy in Canberra wrote that the ULMWP "was created to represent the voices of overseas Papuans, who may still have Indonesian citizenship and many who have renounced their citizenship.

Indonesia Most Favorite Destination for Australian Tourists His remarks came when the Indonesian Tourism Ministry and the Indonesian embassy in Australia were conducting a promotional activity at Hotel Hyatt in Canberra recently. Besides helping promote mutual understanding between the peoples of the twoÃ‚Â ...

Indonesia the most favorite destination for Australian tourists His remarks came when the Indonesian Tourism Ministry and the Indonesian embassy in Australia were conducting a promotional activity at Hotel Hyatt in Canberra recently. Besides helping promote mutual understanding between the peoples of the twoÃ‚Â ...

MSG: The sick or the strong man of the Pacific? After almost one decade of existence, the Melanesian Spearhead Group (MSG) has shown its potential to become "the strong man of the South Pacific".

Indonesia Most Favorite Destination for Australian Tourists His remarks came when the Indonesian Tourism Ministry and the Indonesian embassy in Australia were conducting a promotional activity at Hotel Hyatt in Canberra recently. Besides helping promote mutual understanding between the peoples of the twoÃ‚Â ...

MSG: The sick or the strong man of the Pacific? After almost one decade of existence, the Melanesian Spearhead Group (MSG) has shown its potential to become "the strong man of the South Pacific".

Oz travelers told to be calm despite warning The Tourism Ministry's deputy for overseas promotion, I Gde Pitana, said on Tuesday that he had informed the ministry's representatives in Australia and the Indonesia n Embassy there about the "real condition in Indonesia as indicated by the WHO", so ...

holidays with kids fiji bali thailand gold coast If you're travelling with ADHD medications, prescription drugs or drugs containing codeine you should first contact the Thai Embassy or the Indonesian embassy in Canberra to confirm it's legal. For more on official health advice for each destination ...

Sabam Pandapotan Siagian remembered Indonesian embassy in Canberra and all Indonesians in "On behalf of all of the staff at theand all Indonesians in Australia who have come to know ambassador Sabam Siagian, I convey my most heartfelt condolences at his passing.

Beef and Boat People: New Trouble in Australia-Indonesia Relations Indonesian embassy in Canberra dismissed the assertion that there is a link between the policy of live export ban and increased number of Thedismissed the assertion that there is a link between the policy of live export ban and increased number of boats heading to Australia

Live cattle ban led to more boats: Barnaby "When we close down the live animal export industry, it was around about the same time that we started seeing a lot of people arriving in boats in Australia ," he told the regional leader's debate in Goulburn on Wednesday. Asked to clarify his comments ...

Joyce's head-scratching asylum gaffe "When we closed down the live animal export industry, it was around about the same time that we started seeing a lot of people arriving in boats in Australia ," he told the forum in Goulburn on Wednesday night. When asked whether he stood by the ...

Papua: Pricking our national conscience Indonesian embassy in Australia ( The As long as violence, unlawful arrests, and long prison terms for "treason" are used to suppress freedom of expression in Papua, the argument made by the( The Jakarta Post, May 9 ) that Papuans benefit from IndonesianÃ‚Â ...

12 Australian companies ready to invest in Indonesia Indonesian embassy in Canberra and the Consulate General in Sydney, Melbourne, and Indonesias Investment Forum was a collaboration between theand the Consulate General in Sydney, Melbourne, and Perth

Papua is already free, rights protected The writer is spokesperson for the Indonesian embassy in Australia , Canberra. The views expressed are his own. ---------------.

International West Papua meeting dismissed as publicity stunt Indonesian embassy in Australia says the meeting was a publicity stunt organised by a "small group of Papuan separatists and sympathisers. But in a series of posts on twitter , thesays the meeting was a publicity stunt organised by a "small group of Papuan separatists and sympathisers.

Assault claims during mass arrests over West Papua independence push Indonesian embassy in Canberra , has told SBS he cannot verify the number of Sade Bimamtara, spokesman for the, has told SBS he cannot verify the number of people arrested but believes that number is closer to 400.

Bali executions one year on: Chan brother wants end to Indonesian death penalty ... for his work in challenging death penalty laws. He did not wish to be interviewed and told SBS the Sukamaran family was also too distressed to speak.

ACT Liberals off track Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull's support and preference for public transport is well known. Indeed, in the context of a discussion about major national and regional rail projects, your editorial ("Will the very fast train ever get on track", Times2 ...

ACT Liberals off track It is long-standing policy at the Indonesian embassy to require staff to obey Australian laws, including traffic regulation, and to pay fines forany traffic infringements committed by staff members.

How Indonesia silences West Papuan independence supporters overseas "Living in Australia at least we have freedom to express ourselves," says Okoka. ... In 2003, the Globalism Institute at RMIT University in Melbourne received "significant pressure" from the Indonesian embassy in the run up to a forum on West Papua ...

Canberra's foreign diplomats have $500000 in unpaid speeding, red light, traffic fines All told, foreign embassies in Canberra owe more than half-a-million dollars in fines for speeding, running red lights and parking infringements which they have no intention of paying despite the pleas of the Commonwealth government

What do the Indonesians really think of us? He is a member of parliament's Commission 1, which looks after foreign affairs and defence, and he is almost as friendly as Ahok, but not quite as obliging in what he says: "Indonesians see that in Australia before an election it helps Australian ...

FinFisher spyware: Indonesian government 'using Sydney server for surveillance program' Indonesian embassy in Canberra , but after no response the ABC sought comment from On Monday, comment was sought from the, but after no response the ABC sought comment from Jakarta

FinFisher spyware: Indonesian government 'using Sydney server for surveillance program' Indonesian embassy in Canberra , but after no response the ABC sought comment from On Monday, comment was sought from the, but after no response the ABC sought comment from Jakarta

Indonesia, Australia Establish Educational Cooperation The potential for cooperation between Indonesia and Australia during the tenure of Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull is getting bigger and bigger, and one is through the use of Indonesian in Australia, Indonesias Ambassador to Australia Nadjib RiphatÃ‚Â ...

Trade Minister Andrew Robb wins international award Andrew Robb with Kusuma Habir, the Indonesia n embassy's deputy chief of mission, at the Indonesia Business Summit in Canberra in November. Alex Ellinghausen. by Jennifer Hewett. Andrew Robb is to be internationally recognised for his achievementsÃ‚Â ...