http://www.theguardian.com/world/2016/mar/24/radovan-karadzic-hague-tribunal-sentence-survivors-victims-reaction
203
20
Survivors of Bosnian Serb atrocities, relatives of victims and some legal experts reacted with dismay to the news that Radovan Karadžić avoided a life sentence despite being found guilty at The Hague of one count of genocide relating to the 1995 Srebrenica massacre.

The former Bosnian Serb leader was sentenced on Thursday at the international criminal tribunal to 40 years in prison for his role in the atrocities committed during the 1992-95 Balkans war.

Outside the tribunal there was also disappointment that the 70-year-old psychiatrist was acquitted of one count of genocide relating to ethnic cleansing of towns and villages at the beginning of the conflict.

Kada Hotic, whose son and husband were executed in Srebrenica, cried: “Is the tribunal not ashamed? Do the Bosnian Muslims and Bosnian Croats not have a right to justice? He got 40 years. That’s not enough.”

She pointed to the 21 years that elapsed between Karadžić ’s indictment and his sentence. “It’s unbelievable to me that people like that were unpunished for so long,” she said. “Many victims did not live to see the day when the organiser of all that violence gets punished.”

Standing close by in a huddle of bereaved Srebrenica mothers who had made the journey from Bosnia to the Netherlands by bus to witness the occasion was Hatidza Mehmedovic. She was equally disgusted. “This judgment is a reward for Karadžić . We have no more faith in prosecutors and judges.”

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Bida Smajlovic, a survivor of the massacre in Srebrenica, prays by her husband’s grave on Thursday. Photograph: Elvis Barukcic/AFP/Getty Images

Murat Tahirovic, president of the Association of Genocide Survivors and Witnesses, declared: “This is not a final judgment. There is still the appeal ahead.”

“To us it’s important that it’s recorded for history, what he’s done,” Tahirovic added. “We want this punishment to serve as a warning to all those that consider committing crimes in the future. Only with the truth can we build a future.”

Mirsad Duratovic, a survivor of the Omarska concentration camp, near the western Bosnian town of Prijedor, had said the genocide decision would be vital.

“If the judges fail to convict Karadžić for genocide in 1992 in Prijedor, it will be a slap in the face of the victims. Everything else will be a reward for Karadzic and Republika Srpska,” Duratovic said before the final verdict.

In Bosnia itself, Karadžić’s 40-year sentence was decried. “I am so disappointed,” said Bida Smajlovic, 64, who watched a live broadcast of the verdict with her two sisters-in-law in Potocari, a Srebrenica suburb where the three women saw their husbands for the last time 21 years ago.

“We have been in shock ever since the first gunshot and this is yet another one,” she said. All three of their husbands perished when Bosnian Serb forces, commanded by Ratko Mladic, took over the UN-protected area of Srebrenica on 11 July 1995.

Vasva Smajlovic, 73, said: “I wish there was capital punishment. My husband is dead for 20 years and Karadžić is still alive. At least I expected a lifetime [in] prison.”

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Smajlovic cries as she watches the trial on TV. Photograph: Dado Ruvic/Reuters

Bida Smajlovic’s husband tried to escape through the woods but was killed along with his two brothers. Their bodies were found in two separate mass graves in eastern Bosnia, where bones of the Srebrenica victims are still being uncovered 20 years later.



“This came too late,” said Smajlovic, who lives alone in her home overlooking 7,000 white tombstones where the victims were buried. Another 1,000 are still unaccounted for.



The UN secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, hailed the genocide conviction as a “historic day” for international criminal justice.

“This judgment sends a strong signal to all who are in positions of responsibility that they will be held accountable for their actions and shows that fugitives cannot outrun the international community’s collective resolve to make sure they face justice according to the law,” Ban said.

Prosecutors at the tribunal had sought a life sentence, but the lead counsel, Serge Brammertz, said 40 years amounted to the same thing for the aged politician. “Overall, we are satisfied with the outcome,” he said.

But Mark Ellis, the executive director of the International Bar Association, the global voice of the legal profession, said: “The sentence of 40 years is disappointing. Sentencing practices at international criminal tribunals tend to suffer from a lack of consistency and transparency. Today’s judgment is an example of such practices, complicated to understand and undoubtedly difficult to accept from the point of view of the victims. The prosecution should appeal.



“Notwithstanding the insufficient years of the sentence, the verdict represents a milestone for the international criminal tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY), having achieved the arrest of all 161 indicted persons.”



John Dalhuisen, Amnesty International’s director for Europe and Central Asia, said: “This judgment confirms Radovan Karadžić’s command responsibility for the most serious crimes under international law carried out on European soil since the second world war.

Back to the Balkans: 20 years after the Bosnian war Read more

“We should not forget, however, that more than 20 years after the Bosnian war, thousands of cases of enforced disappearances are unresolved, with a disturbing lack of political will still blocking access to justice, truth and reparation for victims.”

Param-Preet Singh, senior international justice counsel at Human Rights Watch, said: “Victims and their families have waited for over two decades to see Karadžić’s day of reckoning. The Karadžić verdict sends a powerful signal that those who order atrocities cannot simply wait out justice.”

In Serbia, the prime minister, Aleksandar Vucic, declined to comment, having spent the day at an event to mark the 17th anniversary of the Nato bombing of Serbia, which had been intended to stop the war in Kosovo.



He had previously said he would not allow the verdict to be an excuse for attacks on Bosnian Serbs. He said he would meet with the patriarch of the Serbian Orthodox Church on Friday morning followed by a special cabinet meeting to discuss the implications of the Karadžić verdict.

Many Bosnian Serbs believe they have been unjustly targeted by The Hague tribunal. “The 40-year imprisonment is unfair and will contribute neither to truth nor to trust in our region,” said Mladen Bosić, the head of the Serb Democratic party (SDS) that Karadžić founded in 1990.

“The Hague tribunal has once again shown that it is a political court, the politically based verdicts were handed down to all Serb leaders from Serbia, [Bosnia’s autonomous] Republika Srpska and Croatia,” he said.

