http://thedailynewnation.com/news/88103/the-black-night.html
202
20
Share Facebook

Twitter

Google+

Save

E-mail

Print

Staff Reporter :

The nation will recall the 'Black Night of March 25' today (Friday) in commemoration of the cowardly attack and unleashing large scale genocide on the unarmed sleeping Bangalees by the barbarous Pakistani occupation forces in 1971.

On the fateful night of March 25 in 1971, the Pakistani military junta in the guise of a mock dialogue had resorted to genocide in Dhaka city, the provincial capital of the then East Pakistan, to implement their blueprint to negate the Awami League's election mandate of 1970.

In their dreadful operation dubbed as 'Operation Searchlight', the Pakistani occupation forces mercilessly killed the Bangalee members of EPR (East Pakistan Rifles), police, students and teachers as well as thousands of common people in Dhaka city.

Pakistan occupation army used tanks and artillery against the Bangalee. They went on rampage in Dhaka University area and killed the intellectuals, teachers and students mercilessly. They not only killed the general people but also tortured, looted and raped a lot that night.

In the wake of military crackdown, Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, who became the undisputed leader of the then Pakistan following his party Awami League's massive victory in the 1970 general elections, declared independence of Bangladesh through EPR wireless at 00-30 hours on March 26 (the night following March 25) in 1971 from his historic Road-32 residence at Dhanmondi in Dhaka.

The father of the nation Bangabandhu in his message said, "This may be my last message, from today Bangladesh is independent. I call upon the people of Bangladesh wherever you might be and with whatever you have, to resist the army of occupation to the last. Your fight must go on until the last soldier of the Pakistan occupation army is expelled from the soil of Bangladesh and final victory is achieved."

Later, the Pakistani military junta, in a bid to stop the legitimate movement of the Bangalees, arrested Bangabandhu on that night following his declaration of the country's independence.

Later, Bangabandhu was taken to the then West Pakistan where he had to spend long nine months in a dark condemned cell of a Pakistani jail. The night of massacre on March 25 in 1971, was a complete military operation by Pakistan occupation forces.

This was one of very few military operations in post-World War-II history, which ultimately had been planned against civilians, just to kill a smart percentage of them and to scare the survivors.

The concept of 'Operation Searchlight' was inspired by the My Lai massacre that US Army carried out in Vietnam. The March 25 atrocities carried out by Pakistani military junta triggered the struggle for independence.

Following the declaration of independence by Bangabandhu, the whole nation, except a few pro-Pakistani elements, joined the War of Liberation that lasted long nine months.

And ultimately Bangladesh was freed from the Pakistani occupation forces with their surrender at the Race Course Maidan, later renamed as Suhrawardy Udyan, on December 16 in 1971.

Different political parties and socio-cultural organisations have chalked out elaborate programmes in observance of the Black Night to pay deep homage to the martyrs marking the day.

Meanwhile, International War Crimes Mass Trial Committee (IWCMTC) raised a demand for declaring "March 25" as the "International Genocide Day".

IWCMTC has taken up extensive programmes for March 25, including exhibition of photographs on that fateful day on Manik Mia Avenue from 10:00 am, discussion and cultural programme at 4:00 pm, paying tributes to all the victims of genocides and lighting up thousands of candles in the evening. It was terrible night. The Pakistani junta started roaming the city streets. The tanks and cannons were shelling. The frightened city dwellers remained their doors closed and light switched off. The shelling and firing continued till Fazr prayers, many survivors shockingly recollect the horror that still haunt them.

