http://www.oregonlive.com/editors/index.ssf/2016/03/profiling_mass_shooter_present.html
202
20
It's been almost six months since a community college student massacred nine people at Umpqua Community College in the worst mass shooting in Oregon's history.

Immediately after law enforcement officials released the name of the gunman last October, a team of reporters at The Oregonian/OregonLive began assembling the details of his life.

It was a challenging assignment for several reasons. First, almost no one was talking to the media. Second, we wanted to proceed carefully with any stories about the gunman. The Douglas County sheriff had made a big point of not uttering the shooter's name in an effort to avoid calling any attention to him. We didn't go that far. But we consciously limited the use of the gunman's name. If it wasn't central to a particular story, we used more generic references like "the gunman" or "the shooter." But we also felt it was our responsibility to find out what we could about the man behind these heinous actions. In an era where mass shootings have become far too commonplace, prompting calls for stricter gun control measures, we felt obligated to report the story thoroughly and meticulously.

Reporter Molly Young was part of the team that began filing dozens of public records requests and knocking on doors. It wasn't long before the traditional reporting avenues were exhausted. Other reporters on our team moved on to different assignments, but Young stuck with the story. She traveled to California and central Oregon to track down relatives and former neighbors.

Over a period of several months, Young pieced together the paper trail. In California, she connected with the shooter's half sister. But no one else close to the gunman would talk. She learned the most about him through various social media postings. The shooter had accounts on Myspace and the dating site Spiritual Passions – among other sites. His mom had posted thousands of times on Yahoo message boards, Facebook, YouTube and nursing message boards. Her posts revealed a lot about her son and their relationship. Ultimately, Young would read thousands of posts on social media sites in the course of reporting her 2,600-word profile.

"Their social media posts offer a perspective into their world," Young said. "Many websites took down any traces of the gunman in the aftermath of the shooting, so we spent hours cataloging as much information as we could. I also read thousands of posts written by his mother on Yahoo and other sites. The posts revealed critical information that couldn't have been obtained any other way."

Young is the newest member of our watchdog team. She came to us in 2011 as an intern working out of Clackamas County. Soon after, she joined our business reporting staff – first covering small business and later writing about broader economic issues. But she has shown a knack for deeply reported enterprise.

"I've always viewed myself as a watchdog journalist no matter my beat," Young said. "Exposing broken systems, holding the powerful to account and working on behalf of everyday people is an essential public service. I just happen to really enjoy it."

Last summer she teamed with Jeff Manning to expose the shenanigans at the Bank of Oswego, a boutique financial institution whose former top officials now face fraud charges. She later teamed with Andrew Theen to help explain the impact of low-wage jobs at a time when the state was considering increases to the minimum wage. While she worked with Theen on the minimum wage package, she kept chipping away at her profile on the Roseburg shooter.

After Young filed her first drafts, the story went through intense rounds of editing with at least six different editors. It's not because Young needed a ton of hand-holding. But the sensitivity of the topic prompted a lot of editor feedback. There was some debate about whether we should even publish a story. We knew that a fair number of readers would object no matter what we wrote. Young deftly balanced the concerns while effectively advocating for the profile. In person, Young is disarming and soft spoken. But when she speaks, her words are forceful and strong. She approached the story with two goals in mind – fairness and accuracy. She accomplished that. The story got better with each draft.

"I knew the story would stir strong emotions, so I wanted to be as straightforward and facts-driven as possible," she said. "Everyone involved understood the complex nature of the story. We believed it was an important story to write amid the national conversation about ending gun violence. But we also knew that many people felt differently. Finding the right balance took a lot of time and consideration. Many readers appreciated a factual account of the gunman's life, that went beyond the rumors and speculation that surfaced in the days after the shooting. Other people believe media organizations should not write about mass shooters or even publish a name."

A key to the final story was framing. Young was careful not to overreach or draw conclusions or make leaps about what motivated the gunman. The Douglas County sheriff is said to be close to wrapping up a lengthy criminal investigation into the matter. But even then, we may never truly understand what motivates someone to have committed such evil acts.

The story appeared online on March 12 and in print on Sunday March 13. Even though we included a brief summary of the story on the front page, we decided against starting it on the cover – in part because we wanted to be extra careful about how we treated the story about a killer. In the end, I thought Young handled a tough reporting assignment with tremendous skill and stellar execution.

– Mark Katches

@markkatches