http://investmentwatchblog.com/nobel-peace-prize-winner-in-islamophobic-row-with-bbc/
203
20
by

Burma’s Nobel Peace Prize laureate, Aung San Suu Kyi, 70, made an Islamophobic remark after loosing her temper with a Muslim BBC reporter, according to a new book.

"No-one told me I was going to be interviewed by a Muslim" Burma 's Leader and Nobel Peace Prize laureate Suu Kyi pic.twitter.com/WbtCiRbQtw — Great Quotes (@lion_faisal) March 25, 2016

The Daily Express reports:

The 70-year-old allegedly made the remarks after experienced a political grilling over the violence suffered by Burma’s Muslim minority.

The Burmese champion for human rights is claimed to have lost her temper after BBC Today presenter Mishal Husain repeatedly asked her to condemn anti-Islamic sentiment.

Following the interview, Ms Suu Kyi allegedly muttered: “No one told me I was going to be interviewed by a Muslim.”

In Burma, Buddhist nationalists are well-known to whip up anti-Muslim sentiments, especially during election campaigns.

Muslims are only four per cent of Burma’s population but have long suffered from mob-led massacres in the country.

According to the International State Crime Initiative (ISCI), the native Rohingya Muslims face genocide and “unprecedented ethnic cleansing” in Burma.

The Rohingya are forbidden from becoming citizens of Burma and have few if any political rights.

The alleged remarks from the Burmese politician, who spent 15 years under house arrest, were revealed in a new book, The Lady And The Generals: Aung San Suu Kyi And Burma’s Struggle For Freedom, by Peter Popham.

The human rights activists has long been a symbol of Burma’s pro-democracy movement.

When Mishal Husain asked her to condemn the massacres of Muslims in Burma, the Nobel laureate said: “I think there are many, many Buddhists who have also left the country for various reasons.

“This is a result of our sufferings under a dictatorial regime.”

Last year Ms Suu Kyi was criticised for not defending the persecuted Muslim minority, after many were confined to squalid internment camps.

Critics believe the iconic politician did not condemn the Islamophobic violence for fear of alienating her electoral base.

24 views