http://www.lidtime.com/karadzic-sentenced-to-40-years-for-genocide-7351/
203
20
More than 20 years after…

Advertisement

The Anti-Defamation League, which welcomed Karadzic’s arrest in 2008, praised the verdict.

(AP Photo/David Brauchli, File).

The former member of Bosnia and Herzegovina’s wartime State Presidency and current mayor of Sarajevo, Ivo Komsic, is also disappointed with the verdict. After the sentence was read and judges departed, he sat back heavily in his chair.

The U.N. court found Karadzic guilty of genocide in the 1995 Srebrenica massacre in which 8,000 Muslim men and boys were slaughtered in Europe’s worst mass murder since the Holocaust. Karadzic’s intention was that “every able-bodied Bosnian Muslim man from Srebrenica be killed”, according to a statement released by the court.

The tribunal also found Karadzic responsible for the 44-month siege of the country’s capital, Sarajevo.

Earlier in the day, the United Nations court acquitted him of another charge of genocide in Bosnian towns.

Peter Robinson, who was part of Karadzic’s legal team, said he would appeal. The verdict, he told reporters in Karadzic’s former stronghold of Pale, near Sarajevo, “implies again that the ICTY is a political institution tasked with demonizing the Serbs”. “He feels the trial chamber took inference instead of evidence in reaching the conclusions that it did”.

“The 40-year imprisonment is unfair and will contribute neither to truth nor to trust in our region”, said Mladen Bosic, the head of the Serb Democratic Party (SDS) that Karadzic founded in 1990.

“We gather in humility and regret”, Eliasson said at the time, “to recognize the failure of the United Nations and the global community to prevent this tragedy”.

“I warn those who think they can use today’s verdict against the former president of Repubika Srpska for a political or any other kind of attack on Republika Srpska, that in line with Dayton agreement, Serbia cannot, should not and will not allow that”, Vucic said.

All three of the husbands perished when Bosnian Serb forces, commanded by General Ratko Mladic, took over the UN-protected area of Srebrenica on July 11, 1995.

Although the ICTY has already convicted and sentenced 80 people in connection with the wars that followed the breakup of Yugoslavia in 1991, Karadžić’s trial held special significance for many Bosnians. Karadzic is the most senior Bosnian Serb leader to face prosecution at the court housed in a former insurance company headquarters in The Hague.

The International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia heard the trial.

Karadzic faced two counts of genocide.

“The Karadzic verdict sends a powerful signal that those who order atrocities can not simply wait out justice”, Singh said.

Mr Karadzic was also found guilty of orchestrating a campaign known as “ethnic cleansing” of non-Serbs from the territory of the breakaway Bosnian Serb republic, in which hundreds and thousands were driven from their homes.

Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic died in his cell in The Hague in 2006 before judges could deliver verdicts in his trial. The court, set up in 1993, indicted 161 suspects. Eight cases are being appealed and two defendants are to face retrials. He disguised himself by wearing a thick beard and shaggy hair. They show the brutality of Karadzic’s deadly campaign.

Advertisement

Last weekend, current Bosnian Serb leader Milorad Dodik opened a student dormitory named after Karadzic and had Karadzic’s daughter and wife unveil the plaque. Sakim, who still sells fruits and vegetables at Markale, just like his late parents did, stressed that “there is no real justice for Karadzic”.