http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3788765/EU-faces-battle-survival-warns-President-Juncker-points-murder-Polish-man-Britain-example-happens-nationalism-allowed-fester.html
130
13
The murder of a Polish man on a street in Essex is evidence of a rising trend of nationalism and racism across Europe, the European Commission President said today.

Jean-Claude Juncker condemned the shocking rise in hate crime directed towards Polish migrants in the UK since June's Brexit vote as he warned the EU faces a 'battle for survival' against those who want an end to destroy EU's open borders policy.

But the unpopular leader faced a furious backlash for singling out criminal behaviour in Britain.

Outgoing Ukip leader Nigel Farage said Mr Juncker had ignored the 'heinous crimes' being perpetrated by EU migrants who were free to travel to Britain under freedom of movement rules.

And he accused the EU chief of only focussing on one criminal act in the UK but neglecting to mention the '14 recognised terrorist attacks in the space of this year' that have hit European cities.

The EU faces a 'battle for survival' following the shock Brexit vote, European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker (pictured in the European Parliament in Strasbourg) warned today

Mr Juncker pointed to the hate crime against Polish migrants in the UK as a sign of a rising trend of nationalism across the continent, which he said threatened the very existence of the EU.

He warned there was a danger of other EU member states following Britain out of the exit door as he acknowledged the next 12 months would be critical for the bloc.

Significantly, Mr Juncker referred to the tragic death of Arkadiusz Jozwik, a 40-year-old Polish man who was killed in Essex last month.

Police are treating the attack as a possible hate crime and six teenagers, aged 15 and 16, have been arrested and released on bail.

He said the EU must be robust in its response to the rising evidence of racism in the UK and other European countries, saying: 'The Europeans can never accept – never – Polish workers being harassed, beaten, beaten up or even murdered in the streets of Essex.'

He defended the EU's open borders immigration policy, adding: 'The free movement of workers is as much a common European value as our fight against discrimination and racism.'

Significantly, Mr Juncker referred to the shocking rise in hate crime directed towards Polish migrants in the UK since June's Brexit vote, including the tragic death of Arkadiusz Jozwik (pictured), a 40-year-old Polish man who was killed in a suspected hate crime in Essex last month. He said the EU must be robust in its response to the rising evidence of racism in the UK and other European countries, saying: 'The Europeans can never accept – never – Polish workers being harassed, beaten, beaten up or even murdered in the streets of Essex'

Police are treating the attack as a possible hate crime and six teenagers, aged 15 and 16, have been arrested and released on bail. Police released CCTV footage of witnesses after the incident

Arkadiusz Jozwik was beaten up by a group of thugs outside shops in The Stow, Essex, at around 11.35pm on August 27. Pictured, still images from the CCTV footage

However there have been an increasing number of instances suggesting EU member states are angry at the EU's open borders policy.

Just today the Swiss province of Ticino was set to limit foreigners' access to jobs in order to 'protect home grown talent'. The region sees thousands of Italian migrants enter the country every day to earn generous Swiss levels of pay but return to Italy at night for the cheaper living costs.

And yesterday the Luxembourg government demanded Hungary be kicked out of the EU for building a 110-mile long fence to stop migrants crossing the continent.

An enraged Mr Farage said Mr Juncker had made a 'big mistake' to single out an individual crime in Essex.

'What is also happening is we have people who were previously convicted of rape and murder coming into Britain and committing heinous crimes again because of the free movement of people,' he told LBC radio.

'Murder is murder. Whatever the motivations for it are on either side of the argument, murder is murder and I think we're getting a bit hung up on this and frankly what we should be asking ourselves is why have there been 14 terrorist attacks that have taken place over the space of the last year.

'If Brexit has led to any increase in bad language or bad behaviour, it is regrettable but I'm not sure the link is direct.'

An enraged Nigel Farage (pictured today in the Strasbourg parliament, left) said Jean-Claude Juncker (right) had made a 'big mistake' to single out an individual crime in Essex

Responding to Mr Juncker's comments, Mrs May's official spokeswoman said: 'The Prime Minister has herself already expressed concern about hate crime in this country. That's why the Government has set out an action plan.

'As we said last week, the Prime Minister has spoken to the Polish prime minister about some of the incidents we have seen.

'Of course, we need to let the police investigations take their course, but the Prime Minister is absolutely clear about the values that make this country great - we are a tolerant nation and we should continue to be one.'

Mr Juncker admitted the EU was facing a crisis and warned of the existential threat nationalism posed to the future of the EU.

He told European politicians the world was looking to see if the bloc would survive after Brexit.

He said: 'I believe the next 12 months are decisive if we want to reunite our Europe, if we want to overcome the divisions between East and West, which have opened up in recent months.

'If we want to show that – that we can be fast on things that really want – if we want to show to the world that Europe is still a force capable of joint action, we have to get to work.'

Mr Juncker also told Britain there would be no 'a la carte' access to the single market after Brexit and said the UK would have to continue signing up to freedom of movement rules if it wanted to carry on tariff-free trade with EU countries.

Mr Juncker was delivering his key State of the Union speech to the European Parliament in Strasbourg this morning ahead of a crucial summit of 27 EU heads of states in Bratislava, Slovakia at the end of the week.

Theresa May will not be attending the key summit due to Britain's vote to leave the bloc but Mr Juncker told reiterated this morning that the European Commission wants the UK to trigger Article 50 - the formal process of leaving the EU - as soon as possible.

Jean-Claude Juncker (pictured in the European Parliament in Strasbourg today) pointed to the murder of a Polish man on the streets in Britain as evidence of what happened when nationalism was allowed to fester in society

Outgoing Ukip leader Nigel Farage (pictured in the European Parliament next to President Jean-Claude Juncker today) said the EU had learnt 'no lessons' from the Brexit vote

He insisted the EU 'respects and regrets' the decision of Britain to leave the EU but insisted the Brexit vote along did not put the EU 'at risk'.

He told Britain: 'There can be no a la carte access to the single market.'

He also called on the UK Government to trigger Article 50 - the formal process for leaving the EU - as soon as possible.

The European Commission announced a Brexit Task Force today to head up negotiations with the UK.

It will be 'composed of the Commission's best and brightest,' Mr Juncker said and will be led by former French Commissioner Michel Barnier, who was dubbed the 'scourge of the City' for the swathes of financial regulation he imposed on London.

'Together, Michel and his team will live up to this new challenge and help us to develop a new partnership with the United Kingdom after it will have left the European Union,' Mr Juncker said.

Speaking in the same session today, European Parliament's top negotiator Guy Verhofstadt told Britain to leave 'as quickly as possible' so the EU could get on with further integration such as creating an EU army.

He repeated his ultimatum that Britain must continue to accept open door immigration if it wants continued access to the single market.

But outgoing Ukip leader Nigel Farage, attending the same session, said his stubborn position would do more harm to German car manufacturers and French wine producers than British firms and urged the European Parliament to rethink its decision to appoint Mr Verhofstadt as its chief Brexit negotiator because he was the 'high priest' of European federalism.

Jean-Claude Juncker (pictured making his key Sate of the Union speech in the European Parliament in Strasbourg today) warned that the EU faced a 'battle for survival' to beat the rising trend of nationalism across the continent

Jean-Claude Juncker was delivering his key State of the Union speech to the European Parliament in Strasbourg this morning ahead of a crucial summit of 27 EU heads of states in Bratislava, Slovakia at the end of the week

He branded his appointment a 'declaration of war on any sensible negotiation process'.

'What we really need is to have a sensible, common sense approach and for this Parliament to recognise that its made a mistake and find somebody who actually likes the United Kingdom to lead these talks,' Mr Farage said.

He also hit out at Mr Juncker, saying his plans for a 'European army' and 'more Europe' in the next 12 months showed he had learnt 'no lessons' from Brexit.

Mr Juncker, urging the EU to unite in the wake of June's Brexit vote and prevent the rising trend of nationalism, told MEPs: 'Far too often national interests are brought to the fore. We shouldn't misunderstand this - European integration must not bow to the interests of the nation state. Europe cannot become a colourless melting pot.

'We want to construct. We want a better Europe. Europe is not going down the path of nationalisation, it can never become that type of national area, but there splits out there and often fragmentation exists where we need further effort from the union, and that is leaving room for galloping populism.

'We can't accept that because populism doesn't solve problems. Populism creates problems, and we have to be aware of that and protect ourselves against it.

'We're not the United States of Europe.

'The citizens of Europe cannot be fooled any longer. We have to look them straight in the eyes. People in Europe don't want this petty envy between the various institutions. People expect of Europe that they see clear results, results which should be implemented over time.'

He urged Brussels politicians to 'listen to the citizens more' and said EU officials needed to visit national parliaments to better understand the people they serve.

And he admitted there was too much rivalry and squbbling between EU institutions, telling colleagues they must 'do away with old spats'.

But in his response to Mr Juncker's speech, his biggest critic Mr Farage said: 'It is clear that there are no lessons that are going to be learnt from Brexit.