http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3831637/Rudd-s-plea-Jungle-children-Home-Secretary-says-camp-not-bulldozed-young-migrants-safety-secured.html
1383
13
The safety of child migrants must be secured: Home Secretary Amber Rudd

The safety of child migrants must be secured before the Calais Jungle is bulldozed, Home Secretary Amber Rudd told her French counterpart yesterday.

She said she had made 'crystal clear' to Bernard Cazeneuve that he must ensure the security of hundreds of youngsters there.

During a two-hour meeting with the interior minister in London yesterday, she stressed that children eligible for transfer to the UK must be moved out of the so-called 'Jungle' before bulldozers move in.

Miss Rudd also emphasised the 'moral duty' to bring dozens of unaccompanied youngsters languishing in the camp to the UK within days.

But before the Government could bring lone children with family ties to Britain across the Channel, French officials had to provide a list of names – expected by the end of the week.

Ministers faced a renewed barrage of criticism over the slow progress to rescue child migrants from the 'horror' of the Calais camp.

Miss Rudd, who met Mr Cazeneuve at the Home Office to discuss the crisis, was forced to come to the Commons to update MPs. France could begin flattening the 'Jungle' as early as next Monday if agreement is reached.

She said: 'I have made crystal clear to the French interior minister on numerous occasions, including at our meeting today, that our priority must be to ensure the safety and security of children during any camp clearance.'

She said the UK had been pressing for a list of children eligible for transfer to the UK.

'Be in no doubt, we will now move with all urgency – a matter of days, a week at the most – in order to deliver on that commitment when we get it,' she added.

Children eligible for transfer to the UK must be moved out of the so-called 'Jungle' before bulldozers move in, said Rudd

Since the beginning of the year, more than 80 child migrants had been accepted for transfer from France to Britain. Up to 100 more are 'in train' and will arrive over the next few weeks.

Miss Rudd has also suggested the UK could take around 300 more with no links to the UK under proposals outlined by Lord Dubs – a campaign backed by the Mail.

She also said the Government would help fund a centre for child migrants to live 'safely and securely' while it was decided whether it was in their best interests to come to Britain.

Mr Cazeneuve said last week there were up to 950 children living in the 'Jungle'.

Experts at the British Red Cross said 178 unaccompanied children in the camp had already been identified as having the right to claim asylum in Britain through family.

Miss Rudd said the Home Office will send two team of officials to Calais to work alongside French officials to speed up identifying, prioritsing and processing children who will be brought to the UK.

The British Red Cross said 178 unaccompanied children in the camp had already been identified as having the right to claim asylum in Britain

Lord Dubs, who came to Britain on the Kindertransport programme for Jewish children fleeing Nazi Germany, said: 'Isn't it a sad comment that we have to keep complaining to the Government 'Why is nothing happening?' when the Government gave an undertaking.'

Liberal Democrat leader Tim farron said: 'These terrified children are trapped in a refugee camp, suffering squalor, destitution and desperation because the Government is dragging its feet. The government have betrayed these children.'

Unicef UK's deputy executive director Lily Caprani said: 'The coming days are crucial for protecting the vulnerable refugee children in Calais as demolition of the camp is due in just days.

Miss Rudd said French bureaucracy had prevented unaccompanied children in Calais from being brought to the UK.

She added that more than 50 children had been taken from refugee camps in Greece under the Dubs amendment, which committed Britain to accept at-risk lone child migrants from Europe.

Miss Rudd said French bureaucracy had prevented unaccompanied children in Calais from being brought to the UK

'The Home Secretary has set a deadline of getting all children with family in the UK here by next week. The Home Secretary's new commitment is exactly what is needed, to prevent children falling into the hands of traffickers, before the bulldozers arrive.'

Mr Cazeneuve said: 'Britain is the country of human rights and so it has to take on its responsibilities. When minors are in Calais, and they have family in Britain, and when all cameras are pointed at these minors, then the British must assume their moral duty.'

Miss Rudd told MPs that the French authorities had agreed to verify by the end of this week a list of 387 child refugees with a legal right to come to the UK, drawn up by the campaign group Citizens UK.

She said that as many children as possible with family links in Britain would be transferred under the Dublin convention before the Calais camp was closed, with the rest arriving during the rest of the operation.

Labour's refugee taskforce spokesman Yvette Cooper welcomed the Home Secretary' s 'important' commitment.