http://www.ottawasun.com/2016/03/25/isis-is-the-worlds-most-dangerous-state-sponsor-of-terrorism
202
20
Europe is reeling, once again. Twin blasts at the Brussels airport, followed by a third bombing at a metro station, have left a trail of destruction in Belgium with over 30 people killed, and hundreds more maimed and injured. The attacks were ruthless, coordinated, and sophisticated.

While the investigation is ongoing, one thing is abundantly clear: ISIS has become the world’s leading state sponsor of terrorism.

At its inception in 2013, ISIS sprung first against local adversaries in Iraq and Syria. Its chief concern was consolidating, ethnically cleansing, and governing its territorial base.

Only later did ISIS shift its focus outward. Picking up where its predecessor, al Qaeda, left off, it trained its sights internationally. But unlike al Qaeda, ISIS has the trappings of a state to facilitate its exportation of terrorism. Its latest assault on Brussels, and its suicide attack on Israeli tourists in Turkey last Saturday, are testament to that.

ISIS’s international campaign can be traced to August 12, 2014, four days after the US began conducting airstrikes in Iraq. In a chilling bit of propaganda, ISIS emailed the family of missing American journalist James Foley, describing his murder as revenge on America: “You and your citizens will pay the price of your bombings.” Another dozen American and Western hostages were killed in subsequent months.

In 2015, ISIS expanded that strategy by sponsoring terrorism abroad. A string of attacks in Turkey, Lebanon, Tunisia, and Egypt, along with several successful and thwarted attacks in Europe, including the November massacre in Paris, showcase ISIS’s newfound priorities.

By January 2016, the EU’s law enforcement agency, EUROPOL, concluded that ISIS had “developed an external actions command” to organize “special forces style operations abroad,” including in Europe. ISIS trains operatives within its territory, then dispatches them to establish cells and coordinate attacks overseas. Local militants and foreign fighters alike participate in the mayhem. The assaults in Brussels and Paris fit that bill precisely.

ISIS’s onslaught has caught Europe flat-footed. Thousands of terror-related investigations have been opened and hundreds of individuals have been arrested. New anti-terrorism legislation has been tabled. And intelligence and police cooperation has been ramped up. But despite these efforts the latest assault only accentuates Europe’s vulnerability.

In Belgium, police and intelligence are stretched thin. “We don’t have the infrastructure to properly investigate or monitor hundreds of individuals suspected of terror links, as well as pursue the hundreds of open files and investigations we have,” a Belgian official warned just last week.

Indeed, Tuesday’s attacks were expected. Only last Friday authorities concluded a four-month manhunt by arresting Salah Abdeslam, a European ISIS operative suspected of having participated in the November Paris attacks. His accomplice, Algerian Mohamed Belkaid, was killed earlier in a police shootout. Belgian Foreign Minister Didier Reynders concluded that both men appeared “ready to restart something in Brussels.”

It now seems likely that Abdeslam is linked to both the Brussels and Paris attacks, suggesting the continued presence of a robust and capable ISIS cell active in the heart of Europe. That it was able to act despite the intelligence dragnet, emergency preparedness, and heavy police presence is especially troubling. In Europe, ISIS appears on the march.

- Wilner is an assistant professor at NPSIA, Carleton University, and senior fellow at the Macdonald-Laurier Institute.