http://www.radioaustralia.net.au/international/2016-03-26/radovan-karadzic-bosnian-muslim-in-australia-says-millions-of-years-in-jail-not-enough-for-war-crime/1562892
202
20
Updated 26 March 2016, 12:25 AEDT

A Bosnian Muslim who found a safe haven in Melbourne says even the death penalty would not have been enough for Radovan Karadzic, the architect of genocide in the former Yugoslavia.

A Bosnian Muslim who found a safe haven in Melbourne after serving in the besieged city of Sarajevo says even the death penalty would not have been enough for Radovan Karadzic, the architect of genocide in the former Yugoslavia.

The former Bosnian Serb leader will spend the next 40 years in jail after being convicted in The Hague for his role in atrocities during the Bosnian war, including the Srebrenica massacre, which saw 8,000 Muslim men and boys murdered.

Some survivors of the massacre say that sentence is not long enough, and the punishment comes too late.

"This was clearly an industrial-scale wholesale slaughter of the Muslim boys and men," Almir Colan said.

Mr Colan has very painful memories of his time as a teenager in the military, guarding the streets of Sarajevo, the scene of a years-long deadly siege.

"It was almost four years and these four years you stop thinking about yourself; what terrifies you is what's going to happen to those you love," he said.

He lost many members of his community.

"All of us lost. I lost very close family, relatives, friends and so on. All of us lost someone," he said.

After the Bosnian war, in 1996, Mr Colan moved to Australia, as many Bosnian Muslims did, to make new homes in Deer Park, in Melbourne's west, and Nobel Park in the city's south-east.

And now, 20 years on, he is disappointed Karadzic was found not guilty on one of the counts of genocide.

"The same logic [in the Srebrenica case] should've been applied to the rest of Bosnia, where you have hundreds, up to 3,000 mass graves, which we are now piecing together and finding," he said.

"So you have over 500 major mass graves and thousands of other mass graves, all across all of these regions in Bosnia, and it's really surprising that the court didn't find him guilty of systematic genocide."

Communities must recognise 'politics of hate'

UN judges in The Hague did find Karadzic guilty of 10 war crimes charges, including a count of genocide for the 1995 Srebrenica massacre, the worst war crime in Europe since World War II.

For some residents who had gathered to watch the ruling, it was too long coming — like for Fadila Efendic, whose husband and son were killed in the massacre.

"We should have had this trial finished before," she said.

"We waited for it for too long and many mothers are not alive to hear this verdict."

It was considered a landmark case against one of the alleged masterminds of the Serb atrocities during Bosnia's 1992-95 war, which left 100,000 people dead.

Karadzic's lawyers have already said he will appeal against the sentence.

But Mr Colan said no punishment would have been harsh enough.

"Millions of years is not enough," he said.

"Even if you had the death penalty it's not enough."

He said that because of the long wait for justice, and "because the court was not decisive", the victims and their families have not been afforded closure.

But can the Bosnian community ever get closure on something like this?

"For someone who lost someone, that is probably very difficult," he said.

"But as a people, we have to learn the lessons. As a community, as a society, we have to recognise this effect of genocidal politics — politics of hate, politics that came from somebody like Karadzic."