http://www.care2.com/causes/uk-rejects-genocide-amendment-on-islamic-state.html
202
20
Atrocities committed by the Islamic State don’t need much elaboration these days. Most of us are well aware of the beheadings, torture, sexual slavery and violence carried out by the group across Iraq, Syria and Libya. Yet it’s been their systematic targeting of Christians, Yazidis and Shiite Muslims that have many calling on government officials to recognize this brutality as a genocide.

This week an amendment went before The House of Lords in the UK Parliament, that would have led to a High Court ruling on whether or not such groups were victims of genocide. This ruling could have had massive implications, including the prioritization of asylum seekers who have been systematically hunted down and killed in their homeland. However, the House of Lords voted against the amendment, 148-111.

Many within the House of Lords were furious over the lack of support for the amendment. Lord David Alton put out a statement saying:

“This was a day when Britain neither salved its conscience or offered practical help but chose to look the other way.

When historians come to consider the lamentable failure of both parliament and government to speak and act they will surely conclude that we failed to recognise the crime above all crimes.”

Yet those within the UK government and Parliament who argued against the amendment said that using the term genocide should be decided by, “international judicial bodies.“

Genocide is a highly politicized word that is more often than not applied after the fact rather than in the midst of any massacre. During the systematic killings in Rwanda, for example, politicians from around the world hesitated to apply the term. That hesitation essentially excused the international community from stepping in and trying to stop it until nearly a million lives had been lost.

However, the usage of genocide to describe the Islamic State’s action in the Middle East and North Africa has some heavy hitters behind it. John Kerry recently told reporters that, “In my judgment, Daesh [the Arabic acronym for the Islamic State] is responsible for genocide against groups in areas under its control, including Yazidis, Christians and Shiite Muslims. Daesh is genocidal by self-proclamation, by ideology, and by actions.”

And last month the European Parliament officially slapped the term genocide onto Islamic Stateactions by saying, “Daesh is committing genocide against Christians and Yazidis, and other religious and ethnic minorities, who do not agree with the so-called ISIS/Daesh interpretation of Islam.”

The resolution also called for the UN and International Criminal Court to get involved in bringing charges of war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide against the Islamic State.

The 1948 Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide requires signatories to “prevent and punish” those committing genocide. And to be fair there has been a multi-national military campaign carried out by the US, UK, France, Belgium, The Netherlands, Australia, UAE, Qatar, Turkey and Denmark (to name a few).

However the UK’s rejected prioritization of groups that have suffered systematic ethnic or religious cleansing has angered many in government.

One MP invoked the testimony of Vian Dakhil, a Yazidi parliamentarian in Iraq, saying, “Vian describes the mass graves, the beheadings of children, the crucifixions. She cannot understand why western governments are doing nothing to help them when barely a day passes without news of further genocidal atrocities.”

However, a spokesman for the Home Office told reporters that the amendment would create a dangerous loophole and the “presumption of qualification for refugee status may make it more difficult to identify and exclude those who are a threat to our communities.”

And with anti-refugee sentiment and xenophobia on the rise across Europe, many worry that any legislation aimed at helping asylum seekers will be shot down, not on the basis of justice and morality, but on the basis of fear.

Photo Credit: DFID/Wikimedia