http://xbox360asylum.ca/world/karadzic-sentenced-to-40-years-for-genocide/283572
202
20
Former Bosnian Serb leader Radovan KaradÅ¾iÄ‡ was today found guilty of genocide and war crimes and sentenced to 40 years in jail.

Karadzic was sentenced to 40 years in prison for his role in Serb atrocities that included the Srebrenica massacre in which 8,000 Muslim men and boys were slaughtered in Europe’s worst mass murder since the Holocaust, and for directing the almost four-year siege of Sarajevo.

United Nations judges have found former Bosnian Serb Leader Radovan Karadzic responsible for crimes against humanity in various areas of Bosnia, including murder, terror and unlawful attacks on civilians.

The International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY) found Karadzic guilty on 10 counts of crimes against humanity and war crimes, including the genocide in Srebrenica.

Gen Ratko Mladic, who commanded Bosnian Serb forces, is also awaiting his verdict at The Hague.

Karadzic’s daughter Sonja said the “first half” of her father’s trial was over, referring to his plan to appeal.

His case is being seen as one of the most important war crimes trials since World War Two. Reuters reported that Mr. KaradÅ¾iÄ‡ looked pained when the judges described the siege of Sarajevo, during which over 5,000 civilians were killed.Mr. KaradÅ¾iÄ‡ was arrested in 2008 after 11 years on the run. (He told people his topknot acted as a radio receiver and insisted on protecting bees, which he claimed were “blessed living beings”.) After his arrest Mr Karadzic promptly chopped off the topknot, shaved the beard and returned to the persona familiar from his years in politics.

Al Jazeera’s Emma Hayward, reporting from The Hague, said the pain of survivors hasn’t gone away, but added there’s a sense of relief among the families and victims after the verdict.

The verdict and sentence were met with expressions of relief and satisfaction from Bosnian Muslims and anger by Serb nationalists, thousands of whom took to the streets of the Serbian capital, Belgrade, to protest.

In 1992, after Bosnia seceded from what was left of Yugoslavia, his party in turn declared the independence of the Republika Srpska, Bosnia’s Serb-dominated half.

Karadzic is the most-senior political figure to be convicted for crimes committed during the wars that tore Yugoslavia apart some 20 years ago. “We stopped, and all these Bosnian soldiers came down who’d shot people day before”, he said.

In 1992 Karadzic founded the Republika Srpska (RS), a breakaway Bosnian Serb territory, and the conflict that ensued pitted his forces against the country’s Muslims and Croats.

“We were handed down a verdict in 1995″, she said. He initially tried to represent himself which led to delays in his trial but eventually had a lawyer imposed on him.

“I’m very glad that this man finally got what he deserved”, he said.

“Many people in all the former Yugoslavia are still using a rhetoric that is still closer to what we heard in court than we should expect”.

The judge said Karadzic talked in code with his adviser for Srebrenica, Miroslav Deronjic, and said that the prisoners were “goods” to be detained.

“I was hoping for a life sentence”, said Adil Draganovic, 63, who was held captive in a Bosnian Serb concentration camp during the war and travelled to the Hague for the verdict.

Thursday’s verdict comes more than a year after the end of his trial in 2014.

Karadzic, 70, is the highest-profile politician from the Balkans conflicts to be judged, after former Serbian strongman Slobodan Milosevic died in his prison cell while on trial in 2006.