http://files.heraldscotland.com/opinion/14383549.Alison_Rowat__After_Brussels__we_are_all_on_the_frontline_now/
203
20
WHEN the first bomb went off, the world around Pauline Graystone exploded. Immediately, she dropped to the ground with her husband and daughter, wrapping an arm around each to shield them from the blizzard of debris.

“All I could think of was we’ve got to be as small as possible,” she told BBC Radio Four’s World at One. The other crucial thing, she knew from reading a newspaper article a few days before, was to stay exactly where they were, because the likelihood was that there were other devices, timed and placed to hit fleeing crowds.

How is it that a woman, a wife and mother, an ordinary citizen, knows the drill about how to act if caught in a terrorist atrocity? What kind of times do we live in when familiarising oneself with the tactics of suicide bombers is another pre-holiday task, like buying suncream and a new swimsuit?

When Theresa May, the Home Secretary, addressed the Commons this week on the bombings in Brussels which have killed 31 so far and left 270 injured, she called terrorism “the challenge of our generation”. Week by week, horror after horror, it is beginning to feel that way. But how is that challenge to be met? How can life carry on at anything approaching normal when faced with the death cult that is the so-called Islamic State (IS)?

New York, London, Madrid, Moscow, Glasgow, Paris, Brussels: the list of cities hit by terrorism grows ever longer while the West continues to inch towards answers on what can be done. If anything, the threat is intensifying. Speaking on the Today programme, Rob Wainwright, the director of Europol, said: "We are concerned about a community of 5,000 suspects that have been radicalised in Europe, that have travelled to Syria and Iraq for conflict experience, some of whom, not all, have since come back to Europe.” The new strategy of IS, he said, was to “to take us on in a more aggressive way, to use teams of well-trained, well-planned terrorists to carry out multiple attacks aimed at mass casualties”. By “us”, make no mistake, he means you and me. Like Pauline Graystone, we are all on the frontline now. To simply go about the business of living and working is to put oneself at risk. Chances are, all the statistics tell us, that it will not happen to you and yours. But it will happen to someone, somewhere, and in the recesses of our minds, when we go to an airport, when we ride on a subway, when we are anywhere that is crowded, we know this, we feel it.

It should be a fundamental duty of politics to address such basic concerns, but the urge for a quiet life, to put what has happened behind us, is strong. This is understandable. The mind and body cannot cope with being in a permanent state of fight or flight. Yet it is in the calm periods that the serious thinking and planning has to be done, but where to begin?

The debate around terrorism is too often, but inevitably, coloured by the times. A rush to action, as was seen with Afghanistan but more so Iraq after September 11, can lead to disastrous consequences. Ditto not having a strong enough state and security apparatus to investigate and arrest those responsible before they can strike again. Already, a link is emerging between the Paris attacks and the Brussels bombings. Here, where a referendum on EU membership looms, the debate is turning towards whether the UK is safer in or out of Europe. To date, the Remain camp have had it all their own way, arguing that membership plugs us into a network of security systems and intelligence gathering without which the UK would be more at risk. A former head of MI6 has now begged to differ.

Sir Richard Dearlove, writing in Prospect magazine, said that, far from Brexit leading the UK into danger, it might in fact make us safer by allowing the country to ditch the European Convention on Human Rights, making it easier to extradite extremists, and give greater control over immigration. As for the benefits of EU intelligence sharing, Sir Richard said the reality was that it did not happen among the 28 states for fear of information leaking.

His points are worth noting, if only to remind us that bigger, and more international, is not always better when it comes to tackling terrorism. Of course, the problem is global in reach and international in cause. There will be no end to terrorism as we know it without tackling the lethal chaos in the Middle East, the war in Syria most of all. But there is another factor in the equation, the home grown element, as outlined by the head of Europol. Five thousand people, he estimates, radicalised and trained in war, many heading back to Europe from Syria and Iraq. Those thousands will, in turn, try to recruit others to their cause, and so it goes on. That faraway headache is faraway no longer.

Given the immediacy of the problem the natural tendency is to want a solution delivered at the same speed. It is difficult to see that happening. This is not to say, however, that nothing can be done, that we should simply erect a Fortress Britain and hope that a Fortress Europe and a Fortress America come along soon. As Brussels showed, as Glasgow Airport showed, there are no impregnable fortresses if we want to carry on anything resembling a normal life. What we have to realise is that terrorism is as much a local problem as it is an international one, and part of the answer is to be found on our own doorstep, in our own communities.

This does not mean adopting a softly-softly policy towards extremism, a hug it better, or ignore it and hope it goes away, strategy. Where the law is being broken, when danger is brewing, action has to be taken. There is such a thing, however, as exercising soft power as hard. For too long the IS has been allowed to pedal its poison relatively unhindered, creating a pool of addicts hooked on its perverted ideas. Why is there not more effort going into exposing IS as a grasping, murderous crew led by Saddam Hussein’s former military elite? Why, instead of apologising for Western, liberal ways are we not extolling their virtues, bringing people into the fold with as much energy and determination as those who are trying to make them feel excluded? If Western, liberal, capitalist society is so good at selling, why can’t it market itself better?

Taking action on these fronts should be as much a part of our armoury as knowing what to do when the unthinkable happens. Pauline Graystone was right. Sometimes the best response is to make yourself as small as possible. But after that, it is all about asserting your presence. Explaining, yes, but apologising, no. Being aware of dangers but not paralysed by fear. Being willing to listen, but ready to act. While it takes courage, the alternative is too terrifying to countenance.