http://www.timminstimes.com/2016/04/14/over-the-hill-by-diane-armstrong-for-april-14-2016
202
20
Seeking a Place to Call Home

By Diane Armstrong

While ethnic expulsion wasn’t an official declaration in Russia, Poland and Ukraine in the late 1800s, Jewish families were realizing a not-so-subtle push to relieve them of their livelihood. Samuel Levy was a shop keeper who found he had no source of supplies. Simon Henerofsky, a carpenter, was unable to even buy a new hammer or nails. David Korman, a dairy farmer, was helpless as the Russian soldiers took away his cows, leaving him with no source of income. Isaac Gurevitch lived on the Russian border, witnessed what was happening, so he just walked away from all he owned.

There was an exodus of Jews fleeing middle Europe between 1898 and the early 1900s.

In the summer of 1902, Levy, Henerosfsky, Korman and Gurevitch had arrived in Montreal and with Levy in charge, together they made their way west and north, up Lake Temiskaming by steamer, stopping for maps in New Liskeard, then up the Blanche River to a hilly ravine in the townships of Pacaud, Catherine, Marter and Chamberlain. They decided this was the place to set up a Jewish commune. Their claims were registered on the chosen farm land in 1903 and many Jewish families joined them.

Soon there would be 125 Jewish families, four stores, a Hebrew Synagogue and school. It was a small, but thriving community. In 1904, the area attracted the attention of other pioneer settlers – one being August Kruger and his son Frank, both Gentiles, who chose acreages abutting the commune.

On June 22, 1905, members of the Perkus family were attempting to navigate the rushing waters of the Blanche River when their canoe overturned. Benzion Perkus and his son Moshe as well as a cousin, Simcha Mevoznisensom were all drowned. Because there had been no deaths in the community before this time, Simon Henerofsky donated land in Chamberlain Township for a Hebrew cemetery, which is officially known as The Northern Chevra Kadisha Cemetery.

In 1909, a location for a post office was chosen. It was in Frank Kruger’s store and boarding house, located on the new T&NO railway line. At first, it was known as Krugerville, perhaps in honour of its first post master, Frank Kruger, or perhaps in memory of his late father, August Kruger, who died after being kicked by a horse. In tribute to their German heritage, the name was changed to Krugerdorf – “dorf” meaning village.

The T&NO Railway had forged north and along with mining and forestry, Jews were given an opportunity for jobs outside the commune. Slowly, many families began moving away. Levy’s dream of a large Jewish commune was weakening and by 1920, he knew it would never come to fruition. But Krugerdorf remained on the railway maps for another 70 years. It was between Englehart and Kirkland Lake.

The Northern Chevra Kadisha Cemetery of Krugerdorf still stands as testament to those who settled in Northern Ontario. In 2006, there were 114 marked graves. Recognizable marker names like Korman, Frumpkin, Perkus, Levinson, Feldman, Slotnick, Kedeckle, Duke, Friedman and Abramson are remembered in the early foundations of commerce, education and politics in many of our Northern Ontario towns.

Members of the Jewish communities of the north formed the Chevra Kadisha Society which presided over the ritual of appropriate preparation of a deceased Jewish person's body prior to burial. The group was formed in 1905 when the Perkus family were drowned. One of the first members was David Levinson, then a resident of Cobalt and father of Minerva Levinson Gram - school teacher, Anita Levinson Parker – music teacher, Uly Levinson – shop keeper and Bert Levinson – realtor. All are remembered in the Timmins area.

Today, the village/commune of Krugerdorf is just a memory in the hills of Pacaud, Catherine, Marter and Chamberlain Townships. Few pioneer houses remain; most were abandoned to the elements, but the cemetery still whispers the history of those immigrant Jews and their offspring who once worked, lived and died in Northern Ontario.

That’s my view from Over the Hill.