http://www.politico.com/states/new-york/city-hall/story/2016/09/cuny-chancellor-offered-obama-post-presidency-appointment-105721
20
2
President Obama. | AP Photo/ Evan Vucci CUNY chancellor offered Obama post-presidency appointment

The chancellor of the City University of New York wrote to President Barack Obama last year with an open-ended offer of an appointment wherever he might prefer.

“I was delighted to read that you and your family may be considering a move to New York City following your presidency,” James Milliken wrote on Nov. 15, 2015. “I am writing, Mr. President, to invite you to consider the opportunities we would like to offer you at this very special institution and to let you know how delighted we would be to welcome you.”

Story Continued Below

POLITICO New York obtained the letter after a Freedom of Information Law request.

The president has since announced that he and his family will continue to live in Washington after he leaves office.

Obama will be 55 years old when he leaves office in January, and speculation has swirled about how he might occupy his time after the presidency.

He told The New Yorker in 2014 that he had loved teaching law at the University of Chicago Law School. "I miss the classroom and engaging with students," he said at the time.

In his letter, Milliken noted that CUNY's School of Law “sends a higher share of its students into public interest and public service law practice — about 70 percent — than any other school in the nation.”

He also singled out the the Graduate Center and the City College of New York as particularly suitable institutions for Obama.

The Graduate Center, he wrote, “has earned an international reputation for focusing on critical issues.” And City College, “our original college,” features the Colin Powell Leadership School. (Powell, who served as secretary of state under George W. Bush, crossed party lines to endorse Obama in 2008.)

Graduate Center president Chase Robinson said he "enthusiastically supports Chancellor Milliken's invitation," and CUNY law school dean Mary Lu Bilek said she "wholeheartedly supports" the proposal. City College spokesperson Deidra Hill noted in an email "that one of President Barack Obama’s first jobs was at The City College of New York, where he worked for NYPIRG as part of the student chapter on campus."

Obama received a bachelor's degree from Columbia University in 1983, and Columbia's president, Lee Bollinger, caused a stir last year when he suggested that the president would be returning to the school in 2017. Bollinger later clarified that he was referring to Obama's foundation. Obama's presidential library will be in Chicago, although New York was in the running for a while.

Milliken said in his letter that CUNY is "without a doubt, the most New York of New York’s higher education institutions because we reflect, and embrace, every neighborhood, every demographic group, and every strata of the city."

“I particularly want to stress the satisfaction I believe you would find, as I most certainly have, from an involvement with a university deeply committed to many of the same goals and social issues you have worked so hard to advance in the White House," he wrote.

“Your contributions would produce substantial rewards to CUNY’s dynamic student body and I would be delighted to discuss ways in which you could join us,” he wrote.

CUNY spokesman Mike Arena did not say whether the president responded to the chancellor. The White House press office did not respond to a request for comment.

Read the full letter here: http://politi.co/2dDwlf9