http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/720920/Vladimir-Putin-war-criminal-terrorism-fault-of-West
125
12
GETTY Vladimir Putin has said he is 'not a war criminal' during an interview with French TV

The Russian leader has accused his French counterpart of “adding fuel to the fire” after being ‘humiliated’ by him earlier this week. Mr Putin claims that he was forced to cancel an official visit to Paris after Mr Hollande said that he would only meet with him to discuss the crisis in Syria. The Russian president said: “What the French did amounts to coercion and blackmail.”

Mr Putin is currently helping Syrian troops, led by president Bashar al-Assad, bomb Aleppo in a bid to push out rebels from the city. He has since been accused of being an accessory to war crimes by the international community. During an interview with French television station TF1 on Wednesday night, Mr Putin said that he was “not a war criminal” and blamed the West for the continued conflict in Syria, which is currently teeming with ISIS jihadis.

GETTY Putin claims he cancelled his visit to France over questions about Russia's involvement in Syria

He said: “The French further envenomed the political situation by pushing for a meeting they knew would not take place – just so that they convince us to change our minds about the veto. They stirred things up and triggered worldwide hysteria.”

It is not in our interest to launch a ‘tit-for-tat’ dispute French foreign minister Jean-Marc Ayrault

Mr Putin did, however, say that he had a “very good personal relationship” with Mr Hollande, and that he hoped that their friendship could help them “overcome” their differences. Russia vetoed a French-drafted UN resolution last week calling for an end to air strikes and military flights over Aleppo. According to the Russians, the French draft was put forward in a bid to “please” the United Stated and made France look “weak”.

GETTY Mr Putin did, however, say that he had a 'very good personal relationship' with Mr Hollande

Mr Putin also accused the French foreign minister, Jean-Marc Ayrault, of secretly meeting up with his American counterpart, Secretary of State John Kerry, in order to criticise Russia and “accuse it of all mortal sins”. Mr Ayrault, however, says that he is reluctant to impose sanctions on Russia for its role in the Syrian civil war. He said: “It is not in our interest to launch a ‘tit-for-tat’ dispute and to impose sweeping sanctions on Russia.” Speaking at a press conference in Rome on Wednesday, the foreign minister said that the current situation in Syria “was intolerable” and “utterly devastating”.

GETTY French foreign minister, Jean-Marc Ayrault, said the situation in Syria 'was intolerable'