http://www.thestar.com.my/news/nation/2016/08/30/cabinet-willing-to-discuss-review-of-kings-powers/
120
12
KUALA LUMPUR: The Cabinet is open to discussions to review the limitation of the powers of the Yang di-Pertuan Agong before a new Act comes into force, said Minister in the Prime Minister’s Department Datuk Seri Azalina Othman Said.

The Minister-in-charge of legal affairs said a thorough study was needed to be conducted if elements of the Federal Constitution were to be examined should there be a constitutional crisis.

“We don’t want the Government to be seen as an ‘on off’ Government. I feel this is inconsistent.

“It’s not fair to say that the passing of the National Security Council (NSC) Act was unconstitutional when it is was in accordance with the situation allowed by the Constitution,” she told reporters at Parliament yesterday.

Former prime minister Tun Dr Mahathir Mohamad initiated the amendment to the Constitution, which removes the requirement for the Yang di-Pertuan Agong’s assent before a new Act of Parliament comes into force.

On the amendments to the Law Reform (Marriage and Divorce) Act Azalina also hoped it would be tabled soon to provide families peace and certainty, especially when it comes to children who cannot become victims of the circumstance.

“I think its addressing a lot of matters. That is basically it but i’ve not seen the specific amendment Bill yet so I cant really comment yet,” she said.

When asked on the Malaysian Consultative Council of Buddhism, Christianity, Hinduism, Sikhism and Taoism (MCCBCHST) request for copies of the Bill made public before it is tabled in Parliament, Azalina said the group would have to request it from the Home Ministry, which was the ministry in charge.

The Home Ministry is expected to table the amendments in Parliament in October.

It had earlier said that amendments to the Act would offer the best solution to the loopholes which arise in disputes involving civil marriages following the conversion of one spouse to Islam.

On a separate development, the task force to streamline legal aid services in Malaysia held its first meeting and discussed about organisational transformation, jurisdiction and financial sources.

Azalina, who led the meeting, said there was a lot of discussion on the roles played by the Legal Aid Department and National Legal Aid Foundation (YBGK).

On another matter, Azalina said a new task force to tackle child sexual crimes was expected to hold its first meeting next Tuesday.

Azalina, who will be heading the task force, said besides looking into elements of the law, the task force would also study and initiate an awareness campaigns.

She added that no one wanted another case of British peadophile Richard Huckle in Malaysia.

Huckle was sentenced to 22 life sentences by a London court in June for sexually violating 23 children and babies in Malaysia, as well other children in Cambodia, for almost a decade.