http://www.express.co.uk/news/nature/720060/dog-rescue-hole-russia
120
12
Warm-hearted neighbours worked together to free the dog from its confines in the city of Khabarovsk in eastern Russia's Khabarovsk Krai region. The dog was cruelly thrown in as a puppy and came to be known locally as the prisoner of Chateau d'If, after the fortress jail in the Bay of Marseille. The nervous dog would not let anyone get close enough to rescue it and eventually grew too big to get out of the hole on its own.

But it has now been given a new name, Volya - meaning 'Freedom', after animal rights activists and local residents managed to finally rescue it. The dog would poke its nose out of the hole and people had tried to lure it out into the open for years but it always backed away when anyone came near. But residents would leave food for it every day, saying that its howling, particularly in the winter months, was heartbreaking to hear coming from the cramped and dark enclosure between a nine-floor apartment block and a shop.

CEN A dog that had been trapped in a hole for three years has finally been rescued

The Emergencies Ministry was called but declined to help rescue it. The owners of the apartment block and the shop also refused to help. But eventually a public campaign managed to secure the dog's release after a new resident in the apartment block was so shocked at the dog's long entrapment that he got the media involved. That sparked animal rights activists into action and they joined people in the local community to try to find a way to free the animal. They considered just smashing through the wall but were worried the dog could be hurt or even killed. Welder Andrey Chernov tried to widen the feeding hole, but the dog refused to come out.

CEN Warm-hearted neighbours worked together to free the dog from its confines

Activist Karina Dombrovskaya said: "We studied the structure of the basement, and looked for options.

When I got there, I was shocked - for years the dog had dug tunnels there Darya Stepantsova

"The dog was not just sitting in the opening, she had a narrow area under the basement of the shop. Naturally, over the years, she had dug some passages and could move there." Eventually, they found an activist, Darya Stepantsova, 27, who was slim enough to squeeze through the narrow hole. Ms Stepantsova said: "I thought I could just get inside, throw a loop round the dog's neck and pull her out. But when I got there, I was shocked - for years the dog had dug tunnels there.

CEN

CEN Activists say she is now scared of people, open spaces and light