http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3832710/Forty-one-years-ago-married-best-friend-Bill-Clinton-salutes-Hillary-anniversary-just-days-infidelities-nearly-overshadowed-debate.html
120
12
Bill Clinton voiced his love and respect for wife Hillary Clinton on Twitter Tuesday morning to mark the couple's wedding anniversary.

The former president wrote on the social media site: '41 years ago I married my best friend and the finest changemaker I’ve ever known. And yes, I’m still in awe of her!'

His message of affection came a little over 24 hours after Donald Trump used his past infidelities to try and sink Hillary's campaign during their second debate.

Hillary has yet to publicly acknowledge their anniversary on social media.

Scroll down for video

Big day: Bill Clinton voiced his admiration for wife Hillary on Twitter Tuesday to mark their wedding anniversary (couple above at their wedding in 1975)

Mesaage: 'Forty one years ago I married my best friend and the finest changemaker I’ve ever known. And yes, I’m still in awe of her!' said Bill

Debate guests: Three women who have accuses Bill of sexual assault - Kathleen Willey and Juanita Broadrrick, and Paula Jones - attended debate as Trump's guests (l t r: Jones, Willey, Broaddrick)

Trump held a press conference just 90 minutes before Sunday night's debate with three women who have accused Bill of sexual assault over the years.

The move came just two days after Trump was slammed for lewd comments he made about women in a 2005 interview with Access Hollywood.

Juanita Broaddrick, who claims she was sexually assaulted in a hotel room by Bill in 1978, was the first to speak at the conference, which was broadcast on Facebook Live.

'Mr Trump may have said some bad words, but Bill Clinton raped me, and Hillary Clinton threatened me. I don't think there's any comparison,' said Broaddrick.

She has also claimed in the past that Hillary insinuated that she should not speak of the alleged assault months later when they met at a campaign event.

Bill has denied her accusations, while Hillary has never addressed Broaddrick's claims.

Also in attendance was Kathleen Willey, a former White House volunteer who claims that Bill groped her when she asked for a paid position in his administration.

Bill denied the allegation, and an independent prosecutor later stated that there was no evidence that suggested Bill was lying when he said the alleged encounter never took place.

Paula Jones was also at the press conference.

The former Arkansas state worker, who was the most known of Bill's accusers prior to Monica Lewinsky, alleged that in 1991 Bill propositioned and exposed himself to her.

She filed a sexual harassment lawsuit that Bill's lawyers were unable to get dismissed, and in November 1998 he paid Jones $850,000 to settle the case.

Trump held a press conference just 90 minutes before Sunday night's debate with three women who have accused Bill of sexual assault over the years. Kathy Shelton (second from right) was raped at age 12 in a case in which Hillary was appointed to defend the attacker

Not true: Bill has denied the allegations made by the women, but did settle a sexual harassment case brought on by Jones for $850,000 (Hillary and Trump above at debate)

Hey ladies: Bill shakes hands with Melania Trump (left) and Ivanka Trump (right) at the debate

Twenty years: Bill has only admitted to having extramarital affairs with Monica Lewinsky and Gennifer Flowers (Bill and Hillary celebrating their 20th wedding anniversary above)

The fourth woman, Kathy Shelton, was sexually assaulted at age 12 in a case in which Hillary was appointed to represent her attacker, then-41-year-old Thomas Alfred Taylor.

Shelton has accused Hillary of crossing ethical bounds in the case.

After the prosecution lost key evidence, Hillary's client entered a plea to a lesser charge.

In an interview a decade later, Hillary expressed horror at the crime, but at the same time was also recorded on tape laughing about procedural details of the case.

The four women attended the debate on Sunday immediately after the press conference.

Trump had asked that they be bale to sit in his family box, but that request was denied at the last second.

The Republican hopeful has continued to use the women and their stories on the campaign trial, saying on Monday during a rally in Pennsylvania: 'I was getting beaten up for 72 hours for inappropriate words, locker room talk, whatever you want to call it, but Bill Clinton has sexually assaulted innocent women and Hillary Clinton was attacking those women viciously.'