http://www.news.com.au/world/middle-east/how-militants-prey-on-the-vulnerable-children-of-conflict/news-story/a6a007ca79a7ca932c1f3088e969e692
20
2
Charles Miranda on Syrian border News Corp Australia

AZAD was in a cafe in the village of Halfeti on the east bank of the river Euphrates on the Turkey-Syrian border when he ordered a tea and noticed a small child sweeping the floor with a broom twice his height.

Azad, a Syrian Kurd forced to flee Kobane when Islamic State militants entered the township, asked the boy where he went to school.

At that moment the owner began yelling at the child to get back to work or else.

Azad had intended only to pass though the village but he discovered hundreds of children like that eight-year-old. Syrian children being used as slave labour and living on the streets, or both, after crossing the border unaccompanied, with their families killed or having been sent to work to provide for their relatives. Moved, he set up a school for these children.

“There are so many children around here, all refugees, living on the streets or working as child labour and they are in a very vulnerable position,” Azad told News Corp Australia as he took a break from class.

“I just thought I have to do something at least to give them a chance, an education that can give them some protection.”

CHILDREN USED AS WEAPONS OF WAR

There are hundreds of vulnerable children fleeing Syria and Iraq for Turkey if they can, Europe if they are lucky, that have “disappeared” or suspected of having been kidnapped and forced to become slaves or suicide bombers.

This week there was yet-to-be-confirmed speculation that a child bomber aged between 12-14 years detonated a suicide vest — or had his vest detonated remotely — killing more than 50 guests at a wedding in Gaziantep about an hour’s drive away from Halfeti. Authorities say they cannot be sure of the age of the bomber until further identification tests are completed.

Then in Kirkuk in northern Iraq a boy believed to be no older than 16 was dramatically arrested moments before a 2kg bomb strapped to his skinny frame was detonated.

Authorities say children are increasingly being used as weapons in war and not just in the Middle East.

Thousands of children in Cameroon, Chad, Niger and Nigeria have disappeared in the past two years to become slaves or recruited by armed forces. In the Africa region, attacks by jihadi group Boko Haram has displaced 2.3 million people since 2013 with more than half of those children.

In Afghanistan child suicide bombers had been used for years particularly during the conflict with Coalition and NATO troops. Now in Syria and Iraq, Islamic State are using their “cubs of the caliphate” more and more, showing off child troops in videos. ISIS claim some of the cubs were mostly Syrian and Iraqi but also from France, the UK and Australia and were under the age of 12.

For the thousands of families living in squalor along the Syrian border with Turkey, kidnappings by militants or those wanting child slaves is a constant threat. Many families will only allow their children to play in sight and always with an adult nearby.

EXTENT OF THE PROBLEM ‘IS UNIMAGINABLE’

Care International’s Turkey aid co-ordinator Chloe Day says of the three million displaced Syrians in Turkey, it was the unaccompanied children who are a major concern. They are particularly vulnerable to extremism, either involuntarily or after indoctrination.

“We do what we can for the children but the sheer volume and the extent of the problem is unimaginable,” says Day, who works with the displaced families along the Turkish-Syrian border.

Syria: No strings 25:02 Follow three Syrian children seeking refuge over the Turkish border where teachers try to help them cope with the trauma of war.

“Many young families who fled the conflict are struggling so much they are forced to go back to Syria and that is an upsetting thing. It is extremely dangerous, they are going back to a place where say 50 per cent of the town is gone or covered in unexploded ordinance and that’s even if they make it that far, the journey is not a safe activity and that’s where children particularly are vulnerable.”

She adds: “Leaving refugee children to grow up in dire conditions in overburdened countries neighbouring the very conflict they fled, where they desperately search for work, hoping to feed their families and so cannot receive the education they have a right to — this is what creates the anger, desperation and disenfranchisement that make people vulnerable to extremist recruitment.”

Families around Gaziantep where the bombing took place have particularly raised the fear of child kidnapping in a district which Turkish authorities say is awash with terror cells and extremist sympathisers.

MILITANTS INCREASINGLY TURN TO CHILDREN

According to the Combating Terrorism Centre in New York, the use of children as weapons by ISIS was increasing as militants feel the pressure from debilitating air strikes and the drying up of fighters and funds. In the past year 89 children are believed to have been martyred by the group.

“The rate of operations involving one or more child or youth is increasing, there were three times as many suicide operations involving children and youth in January 2016 as the previous January,” the report states, adding many children were indoctrinated after being “conscripted” for the cause.

A report earlier this year by the UN Child Emergency Fund (UNICEF) found in Africa particularly the proportion of attacks involving boys and girls was on the rise.

“The use of children particularly girls as suicide bombers has become one of the defining and alarming features of the conflict,” report authors wrote.

The UN last year launched a “Children, Not Soldiers” campaign to end child recruitment for conflict by the end of this year. The UN said progress had been made but clearly the objective is unlikely to be met.

Azad’s “school” makes no money and he is effectively a volunteer working for free.

“We have a duty to help our people,” the Kurdish man said. “We all have to do something but it is hard.”

The boy he tried to save attended classes for a time but in desperation has returned to work in the cafe.

charles.miranda@news.co.uk