http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/middle-east/saudi-arabia-woman-ordered-divorce-husband-due-to-superior-origin-court-judge-a7355441.html
120
12
A Saudi judge has reportedly upheld a ruling forcing a woman to divorce her husband because of her “superior origin”.

The initial decision was made in April when Maha al-Tamimi was eight-months pregnant. But following a prolonged legal battle, a judge in Al-Ayina Court in Riyadh upheld the verdict.

Mrs al-Tamimi claims her uncles filed a lawsuit demanding she divorce because they doubted her husband’s lineage.

According to a translation by Emirates 24/7 News, she said: “My uncles claimed in court that I married against my father’s wish… but their real reason is that they believe my husband and I do not have compatible family origins.

“I appeal for the Monarch to intervene to save me and my baby.”

The court was told that she had failed to gain her father’s consent to the marriage, but Mrs al-Tamimi claims he no longer lives with the family after taking a second wife.

10 examples of Saudi Arabia's human rights abuses







10 show all 10 examples of Saudi Arabia's human rights abuses

















1/10 In October 2014, three lawyers, Dr Abdulrahman al-Subaihi, Bander al-Nogaithan and Abdulrahman al-Rumaih , were sentenced to up to eight years in prison for using Twitter to criticize the Ministry of Justice. AFP/Getty Images

2/10 In March 2015, Yemen’s Sunni President Abd-Rabbu Mansour Hadi was forced into exile after a Shia-led insurgency. A Saudi Arabia-led coalition has responded with air strikes in order to reinstate Mr Hadi. It has since been accused of committing war crimes in the country. Getty Images

3/10 Women who supported the Women2Drive campaign, launched in 2011 to challenge the ban on women driving vehicles, faced harassment and intimidation by the authorities. The government warned that women drivers would face arrest. Getty Images

4/10 Members of the Kingdom’s Shia minority, most of whom live in the oil-rich Eastern Province, continue to face discrimination that limits their access to government services and employment. Activists have received death sentences or long prison terms for their alleged participation in protests in 2011 and 2012. Getty Images

5/10 All public gatherings are prohibited under an order issued by the Interior Ministry in 2011. Those defy the ban face arrest, prosecution and imprisonment on charges such as “inciting people against the authorities”. Getty Images

6/10 In March 2014, the Interior Ministry stated that authorities had deported over 370,000 foreign migrants and that 18,000 others were in detention. Thousands of workers were returned to Somalia and other states where they were at risk of human rights abuses, with large numbers also returned to Yemen, in order to open more jobs to Saudi Arabians. Many migrants reported that prior to their deportation they had been packed into overcrowded makeshift detention facilities where they received little food and water and were abused by guards. Getty Images

7/10 The Saudi Arabian authorities continue to deny access to independent human rights organisations like Amnesty International, and they have been known to take punitive action, including through the courts, against activists and family members of victims who contact Amnesty. Getty Images

8/10 Raif Badawi was sentenced to 1000 lashes and 10 years in prison for using his liberal blog to criticise Saudi Arabia’s clerics. He has already received 50 lashes, which have reportedly left him in poor health. Carsten Koall/Getty Images

9/10 Dawood al-Marhoon was arrested aged 17 for participating in an anti-government protest. After refusing to spy on his fellow protestors, he was tortured and forced to sign a blank document that would later contain his ‘confession’. At Dawood’s trial, the prosecution requested death by crucifixion while refusing him a lawyer. Getty Images

10/10 Ali Mohammed al-Nimr was arrested in 2012 aged either 16 or 17 for participating in protests during the Arab spring. His sentence includes beheading and crucifixion. The international community has spoken out against the punishment and has called on Saudi Arabia to stop. He is the nephew of a prominent government dissident. Getty

She said her older brother had instead given permission for the marriage.

Her husband, named by Okaz newspaper as a soldier called Ali Al-Qarni, claimed the father had already been convicted for mistreating his wife.

The case has been referred to the Saudi Court of Cessation for a final ruling on whether the divorce should be upheld.

According to Okaz, Mrs al-Tamimi, who has now given birth to a daugher, categorically refuses to separate from her husband or return to her family.

She previously pleaded with King Salman bin Abdul Aziz to intervene in the matter in a video that went viral in Saudi Arabia.