http://indianexpress.com/article/india/india-news-india/children-undertake-fasts-too-but-not-for-such-a-long-period-say-jains-3077608/
120
12
Vilas Rathod, President of the Vardhaman Pratishthan Sthanak Sangh, said that several people were shocked at her death. Vilas Rathod, President of the Vardhaman Pratishthan Sthanak Sangh, said that several people were shocked at her death.

“IT WAS wrong on part of the family to allow 13-year-old Aradhana Sansadiya from Hyderabad to undertake such a long 68-day fast. Fasting can be undertaken by children to develop mind control but is not advisable for such a long period,” said 72-year-old Dr Kalyan Gangwal who has made a will to take sallekhana or fast till death. Gangwal pointed that Samvar and Nirjara fasts indicate how we should act to get rid of our Karmas and gain liberation. Tapa is usually taken as and is equated with fasting, Jains therefore undertake long fasts with a view to achieve Nirjara.

“The 13-year-old girl had undertaken the Nirjara fast and it was incorrect to continue for so long as each person has his/her physical limits of endurance,” said Gangwal. Gangwal, who has been taking meals only once daily, explained that many people have fasted from eight to 16 days to a month. The physician also linked the purification process in the body due to fasting to the ‘autophaging’ technique (starvation cells breaking down proteins and non-essential components and reusing them for energy) that earned Yoshinori Ohsumi, Japanese cell biologist the Nobel Prize in Medicine this year.

“At Memorial Sloan Kettering Centre in the US, doctors advise a day of fasting prior to chemotherapy as it can have a better effect. Similarly, among Jains too, this scientific manner of fasting is a way of life in the community. “However, there should be no emotional pressure on the child or any person to do so,” Gangwal said and further explained that adults can undertake longer fasts due to the energy reserve in their body.

Like him, several in the Jain community feel parents should not allow children to undertake fasts for such long periods. Vilas Rathod, President of the Vardhaman Pratishthan Sthanak Sangh, said that several people were shocked at her death. “Last year, she kept a fast for 34 days and relatives informed that she wanted to fast for 68 days. She completed the fast but died after the fast ended during the paarana event. Parents should have dissuaded her as this sends a wrong message,” Rathod said. “We have a strong presence of over one lakh Jains in Pune and our children do undertake fasts but not to such an extent,” he pointed out.

Fasting is very common among Jains and most do it at special times during festivals and on holy days. Paryushan is the most prominent festival lasting eight days in Svetambara Jain tradition and 10 days in Digambar Jain tradition during monsoon. Archana Chhajed, president of Deepshika Jain Mandal, said that a lot of children undertake fasts but they are of a much shorter duration.