http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/academy-school-stripped-funding-over-9022239
120
12
An academy school chain is to be stripped of its funding over "serious concerns" about its financial management.

Durand Academy's former headteacher Sir Greg Martin - whom Michael Gove dubbed his "favourite headteacher" - raked in a "substantial" monthly income from a leisure centre operating on school grounds.

Sir Greg is now chair of Governors for the school, but before stepping down as head he was one of the highest paid school chiefs in the country, earning £230,000 a year.

Ministers put the Durand Academy Trust on notice earlier this year that its funding would be pulled if it did not make a raft of changes, including ending Sir Greg's involvement in running the chain, which has a primary academy at two sites in London and a secondary boarding school in West Sussex.

But the trust has "failed to comply" with the demands and is expected to be replaced with a new leadership team within a year.

Google Durand Academy

Academies Minister Lord Nash said: "Following much consideration, we have advised Durand Academy Trust that we are planning to proceed with the termination of the trust's funding agreement.

"A provisional notice of termination was issued to the trust on 4 July because of serious concerns about financial management and governance. That notice set out a number of requirements. The trust has failed or refused to comply with six of the eight requirements we set out to address our concerns.

"This is not a decision we have taken lightly but it has been done to safeguard the future education of Durand's pupils and to ensure public money and public assets intended for the education of children are managed effectively."

Sir Greg appeared before the Commons Public Accounts Committee in January 2015, where he came under fire for the £160,000 he had made as sole director of GMG, which runs a leisure centre that is part of the school but is open to the public in the evenings.

He was also forced to defend having set up a dating website registered to the school's address.

MPs were astonished to discover Sir Greg was involved in the agency - called The Coterie London - while running the school.

And he was accused of ‘taking his eye off the ball’ after the Durand Academy was downgraded by Ofsted from ‘outstanding’ to ‘good’ in 2014.

MPs on the committee claimed his extra £160,000 to run the school leisure centre was ‘crass, obvious profiteering arising from a conflict of interests’.

Reuters Margaret Hodge

Committee chairman Margaret Hodge said: “You are being paid a lot of money as a head teacher. You take yourself a generous slug of money, which we believe to be public money.

“You then find time - with your school having been seen as excellent but now only being rated as good by Ofsted - to set up a dating agency.

“When I looked, somebody called Saffron, who works on the Twitter account, was semi-nude with all sorts of black underwear all over the place. It seems deeply inappropriate for a head teacher to do that on premises where you are also conducting educational business.”

Sir Greg denied “running” the agency from the school and said it should not be discussed as it related to his ‘private life’ and was not connected to his role at the school.

He said: “A few friends and I decided to start a small business, in which I have a minor share. I am not even the director now, to move the focus from me. It was already registered at the business address, where I pick up the mail.

“I live on that site doing my job five days a week, the mail comes there. That was it. It is no big deal. I would like to talk about education, not about a private business.”

The Coterie London described itself as a “new members club dedicated to bringing unattached people together at some of London’s most elegant venues”.

The firm's website has since closed down.