http://www.4-traders.com/FORMOSA-CHEMICALS-FIBRE-6495905/news/Formosa-Chemicals-Fibre-employees-call-for-resumption-of-work-23218203/
120
12
TAIPEI ( Taiwan News ) An estimated 5,000 employees and supporters of an embattled Formosa Chemicals and Fibre Corporation factory protested outside the Changhua County Government Saturday, calling for the immediate reopening of three power generators which the county closed due to pollution. The county turned down an application last month by the factory owner, the Formosa Plastics Group , to extend the operation of the power generators beyond the official deadline.

After talks faltered, FPG took the case to arbitration, but in the meantime, the power installation still had to be shut down. Union leaders who organized Saturday's protest called on the central government, including President Tsai Ing-wen and Premier Lin Chuan , to intervene and persuade the county to issue the license to continue work at the factory.

The nation's leaders should protect the employees' right to work, the unions said. Environmentalists have said that the plant, which mostly produces nylon and rayon, does not belong in an urban setting, while County Magistrate Wei Ming-ku has plans which would eventually lead to a move of the factory out of Changhua City.

Saturday's protest reportedly also attracted FPG workers from similar factories in the counties of Yunlin and Chiayi who also fear for their jobs. In a statement published in the media, Wei said his county administration was willing to assist Formosa Chemicals to move in the direction of green energy and sustainable development.

The old model of industrial development was no longer valid, and businesses needed to consider what they wanted to leave behind for future generations, Wei wrote. The central government's Environmental Protection Administration said it was already assisting both sides of the dispute, FPG and Changhua County, to communicate about the issue.

However, the EPA denied reports that it had demanded the arbitrage commission reach a decision within a month. According to official procedures, the final verdict on the power generators should be reached by the end of next March at the latest.