https://www.yahoo.com/news/us-dollar-technical-analysis-dxy-174300500.html
120
12
DailyFX.com -

Talking Points:

-US Dollar Technical Strategy: Stalling Near March Deserves Our Attention

-3M USD LIBOR 7-Year Highs May Be Indicative Of Increasing USD Strength

-Monday’s Comments from Bullard Continue to Pour Cold Water on Multi-Hike Hypothesis





The price of DXY has traded consistently higher over October and looks to close the month strong. While economic strength in the U.S. has not been what Fed officials would likely hope, the counterparts of the DXY such as EUR at 57.6%, Japanese Yen at 13.6%, British Pound at 11.9%, and Canadian Dollar at 9.1% have all had reasons for weakening, which has lifted the DXY.





Given the majority of EUR weighting on DXY, the charts can look nearly inverse. Friday’s CFTC Commitment of Trader’s report showed the institutional speculators had increased their bearish positioning the most since July. The data was from Tuesday of last week, which was before the European Central Bank Policy Meeting had Mario Draghi noting that they discussed neither a bond-purchase taper nor expanding QE.





EUR/USD Chart Recently Broke Trend Support, Faces March Lows





US Dollar Technical Analysis: DXY At 2-Month Regression Extremes More

Many traders are looking at the DXY as the most likely catalyst for a strong currency trend after months of disappointment on failed breakouts and consistent trends. You can see on the chart above the EUR/USD traded down to 1.09/08 over the last few sessions, which are levels we have not seen since March. While ECB appears on hold, there is a valid question about how much the Fed will do to constrict monetary policy from current levels. There is currently a ~68% probability of a Fed Hike at the December meeting, but it’s hard to say what dialogue would come alongside the hike, and how that could hurt the USD. The Fed is expected to provide a dovish hike where they assure the market they are willing and able to act to accommodate markets if needed.





On Monday, St. Louis Fed Reserve President James Bullard continued his uniquely dovish tone by saying that FOMC members have to adjust their long-term numbers down. Over the summer, Bullard said one more rate hike would likely cover the Fed to 2018.





Access Our Free Q4 Dollar Outlook As The Fed Appears Cornered Regarding Effective Monetary Policy





Despite uncertainty about how steep the slope of rate hikes will be from the Fed (most of the smart money is on a very low slope), one market that continues to rise is international USD borrowing costs. The 3-month London Interbank Overnight Offer Rate [LIBOR] has recently traded at the highest level since May 2009, and continued elevation may keep the USD supported despite looking stretched on technical studies shown below.





D1 DXY Index Chart / Sharp Reversal Appears Able To Surmount Resistance







US Dollar Technical Analysis: DXY At 2-Month Regression Extremes More