https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/early-lead/wp/2016/09/26/lapd-is-actively-investigating-knicks-star-derrick-rose-over-sexual-assault-allegations/
120
12


Derrick Rose is the subject of both civil and criminal inquiries into his actions three years ago. (AP Photo/Mary Altaffer, File)

UPDATE 12:43 P.M. EDT

Derrick Rose had little to say Monday about the revelation that the Los Angeles Police Department is investigating a 2013 sexual assault allegation against him. NBA writer David Aldridge was at New York Knicks media day, where Rose made an appearance.

Interviewed Derrick Rose. Asked him both about pending civil case & disclosure today that LAPD has active criminal rape investigation… — David Aldridge (@daldridgetnt) September 26, 2016

Rose said he had no reaction to LAPD criminal investigation news, & said he continues to expect he will be exonerated in civil case. — David Aldridge (@daldridgetnt) September 26, 2016

ORIGINAL POST

A Los Angeles Police Department detective confirmed last week that New York Knicks guard Derrick Rose is the subject of an active criminal investigation over sexual assault allegations raised against Rose and two friends by a woman who is claiming the three men gang-raped her in 2013. The woman has filed a civil lawsuit against Rose and the two other men over the incident, and that trial is scheduled to begin Oct. 4.

LAPD Det. Nadine Hernandez confirmed the existence of the investigation in a letter dated Sept. 22 to Brandon Anand, the lawyer who is representing the woman in her civil lawsuit. Last week, the judge presiding over the lawsuit ruled that the woman will not be allowed to maintain her anonymity during the trial. Anand is asking the judge to reconsider that ruling and will use the LAPD letter as one reason why, pointing out that the LAPD has no plans to release the woman’s name during the investigation.

“When filing the crime report, the victim in this case exercised her right to confidentiality as outlined in California Penal Code section 293.5. (a),” Hernandez wrote to Anand. “Her identity will continue to remain confidential throughout the criminal investigation being handled by the Los Angeles Police Department.

“The ability to offer anonymity to victims of sex crimes is an invaluable investigative aid to investigators as well as a great comfort to victims of crimes of such a sensitive nature.”

As noted by Think Progress, Rose’s attorney had previously alleged that Anand was lying about an active criminal investigation “in order to extort a settlement from Rose.”

Rose is scheduled to appear Monday at Knicks media day, which begins at 11:30 a.m. EDT.