http://www.presstv.ir/Detail/2016/10/01/487239/911-US-statesponsored-terrorism
120
12
The September 11, 2001 attacks in New York were an act of US state-sponsored terrorism carried out in collaboration with Israel, according to Stephen Lendman, an American writer, journalist and political analyst.

Lendman told Press TV on Saturday that Saudis “have committed many, many crimes throughout the [Middle East] region, and probably beyond, but they have nothing – I repeat nothing – to do with 9/11.”

“9/11 was US state-sponsored terrorism, likely in complicity with Israel. My guess is the CIA and Mossad were responsible,” he stated.

A widowed woman, whose husband was killed in the 9/11 attacks, sued Saudi Arabia on Friday, demanding reparations over her husband's death.

The lawsuit came two days after the US Congress overwhelmingly voted to override President Barack Obama’s veto of legislation allowing relatives of the victims of the 9/11 attacks to sue Saudi Arabia.

On Wednesday, Senators voted 97-1 in favor of the “Justice Against Sponsors of Terrorism Act (JASTA),” which was vetoed by Obama last week. Only Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, voted to sustain the president’s veto.

Hours later, the House of Representatives overwhelmingly voted against the presidential decree, 348 to 77. Only 18 Republicans and 59 Democrats voted not to override the veto.

The September 11 attacks, also known as the 9/11 attacks, were a series of strikes in the US which killed nearly 3,000 people and caused about $10 billion worth of property and infrastructure damage.

US officials assert that the attacks were carried out by al-Qaeda terrorists but many experts have raised questions about the official account. They believe that rogue elements within the US government orchestrated the 9/11 attacks in order to accelerate the US war machine and advance the Zionist agenda.

‘Official US position on 9/11 contradicts the laws of nature’

Smoke billows from the twin towers of the World Trade Center in New York on September 11, 2001. (File photo by AP)

The south tower starts to collapse as smoke billows from both buildings of the World Trade Center in New York on September 11, 2001. (File photo by AP)

Lendman said, “The whole scenario presented in the US media, and an official position on 9/11, contradicts the laws of nature, like the way the buildings came down.”

The analyst said the World Trade Center towers were most probably rigged with nuclear explosives, bringing them down. Radiation found in the remains was removed and not reported.

“The only way they could have brought down was never with an airplane, or two airplanes, or maybe a fleet of airplanes, the only way they could have brought down is if they were rigged with explosives, then they would come down in freefall,” he said.

“Aviation fuel, no matter how hot it gets, cannot melt steel buildings,” the commentator noted.