http://www.4-traders.com/EXXON-MOBIL-CORPORATION-4822/news/Exxon-Mobil-Nigeria-s-Qua-Iboe-crude-oil-exports-to-resume-soon-ExxonMobil-offers-cargo-for-Oct-l-23070401/
120
12
Loadings of Nigeria`s Qua Iboe crude could resume in the next two to four weeks, trading sources said Wednesday, up to three months after a suspected attack on a pipeline shut in the country`s biggest export grade crude.

Sources said ExxonMobil , operator of the Qua Iboe terminal, was offering a cargo of this grade for October 8-16 loading at Dated Brent plus $1.80/b . By late-afternoon, Vitol said it was offering a 950,000-barrel stem of Qua Iboe for October 4-5 loading at Dated Brent plus $1.35/b .

Traders said they expected a Qua Iboe October loading program to emerge in the next few days.

A spokesman at ExxonMobil declined to comment on a time frame but said the "force majeure remains in effect."

Qua Iboe has been under force majeure since July 14 and the last cargo was exported on July 12 , according to data from cFlow, S&P Global Platts trade flow software. ExxonMobil said at the time this was because of a "system anomaly." But earlier that week, the Niger Delta Avengers militant group had claimed an attack on the Qua Iboe export pipeline.

Typically Nigeria exports some 300,000-340,000 b/d of Qua Iboe but since the pipeline outage production has been minimal.

Traders active in the West African crude market said, besides the ExxonMobil cargo, there could be another Qua Iboe as early as late September or early October, but details of this could not be immediately confirmed.

The offers by ExxonMobil surprised traders who said a month ago they expected Qua Iboe exports to only resume by either November or December as pipeline repairs were still ongoing.

GLUT OF SWEET CRUDE

Traders also said that with no official confirmations from ExxonMobil , buyers of Qua Iboe were still cautious despite a slight improvement in Nigeria after a ceasefire was agreed between the government and militants late last month.

They added that some buyers would be more interested in buying Qua Iboe on a CIF or delivered basis rather than FOB due to militancy in the region.

After force majeure was declared, Qua Iboe differentials fell from Dated Brent plus $1.70/b in mid-July to plus $1.20/b in early-August.

Differentials have recovered somewhat since then to around Dated Brent plus $1.35-$1.45/b in the past week as the light sweet crude complex has stabilized slightly.

But one trader said if Qua Iboe returns soon, there will be more light sweet crude on the market adding to the already existing glut, which will drag differentials down again.

"With Qua Iboe back, the whole complex [will be] under pressure," he said.

Nigeria , which was Africa`s largest oil producer until a few months ago, has seen its output slump to 30-year lows due to renewed militancy in the country`s oil rich Niger Delta . Attacks on the country`s oil and gas infrastructure have increased at an alarming pace this year, slashing production to around 1.4 million-1.5 million b/d currently from 2.2 million b/d in January.

Three of Nigeria`s main export crude grades -- Qua Iboe, Brass River and Forcados -- are currently under force majeure, with more than 500,000 b/d of production affected. Force majeure on Bonny Light was lifted on September 6 following the reopening of the Nembe Creek Trunk Line.