http://www.vanguardngr.com/2016/08/ondo-apc-crisis-ive-no-preferred-candidate-buhari/
120
12
By Dayo Johnson, Yinka Ajayi & Omeiza Ajayi,

PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has distanced himself from the crisis of confidence rocking the All Progressives Congress, APC, in Ondo State saying he has no preferred aspirant.

This is just as the APC secretariat in Ondo State was laced with fetish objects

President Buhari spoke, yesterday, through the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, SGF, Babachir David Lawal, who met with 24 aspirants of the party.

Briefing newsmen at the end of the parley, which lasted four hours, Mr. Lawal said the discussions were peaceful and fruitful.

The SGF said: “The government of President Muhammadu Buhari wishes to reiterate that it has no preferred candidate among the 24 aspirants and that government would do all in its power to provide a level-playing field for all the aspirants.

“We expect that all the aspirants will work hard to win the votes of delegates. In the tradition of APC, we expect that there will be no inducement of delegates or coercion”, he added.

Lawal also assured of adequate deployment of security operatives for the primaries, warning that government would deal decisively with anyone who breaches the peace.

He restated that as a government, the President Buhari-led administration has no preffered aspirant.

He urged the aspirants to unite behind whoever emerges as the candidate, saying: “Soon, Ondo State would become an APC state.”

Besides, he said: “We understand that tension is high due to some underlying factors. The National Working Committee NWC of the party has assured the government and we believe them that everything will be done to ensure that elections are free and fair and we know that no official of the party would do anything to give undue advantage to any aspirant over others.

“We will like to once again reassure you that as a government, we have no preferred candidate.”

Speaking further, he warned that “Government will come hard on anyone that does anything that in anyway jeopardises the peace and security of Ondo state.”

He equally told the aspirants that 10 of them were yet to sign an undertaken with the Department of State Services, DSS, to be of good conduct, urging them to do so.

Party assures of level-playing ground

In the same vein, National Secretary of the party, Mai Mala Buni who also restated the party’s position to provide a level-playing field for all aspirants saying, “this party is committed to providing free and fair election because the calibre of members that we are sending to conduct this primary election are up to the task.”

Responding on behalf of the aspirants, Mrs Jumoke Anifowoshe commended the president for the reassurances, saying the aspirants are now satisfied and comfortable with the response of the government that the election would be free and fair.

Party secretariat laced with charms

Meanwhile, the crisis rocking the party, yesterday, turned diabolical as the party secretariat was laced with fetish objects.

For many hours, the secretariat, turned to a centre of attraction as members of the public trooped there to have a glance of the objects used to seal off the secretariat.

State chairman of the party, Mr Isaac Kekemeke and the party State Working Committee were billed for a meeting, at the secretariat, with the members of the party from Abuja, expected to preside over the conduct of the primaries.

Workers in the party secretariat and members of the public were welcomed by the fetish objects placed at the entrance of the secretariat said to have been brought there around 1am.

When Vanguard visited the secretariat, the fetish objects include goat and dog heads, red, white and black cloths, local pap, salt and some cash prepared in a plate, sprinkled with red palm oil.

The object was placed on a stand in front of the gate that was under lock while palm font were also tied on the gate.

Reacting to the development, the embattled chairman, Mr Kekemeke, described it as part of the antics of the detractors to further destabilize the party before they will eventually decamp to another party.

Deji of Akure condemns act

Meanwhile, the Deji of Akure, in a statement issued and signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Adeyeye Michael frowned at the act of using such method to seal off a premises, saying it remains the prerogative of the palace only.

The statement reads: “The Deji of Akure remains non-partisan and a father to all political aspirants and never authorized such and wishes to inform the general public that such act did not emanate from the palace. We wish to inform you that any attempt to desecrate the tradition will be vehemently rebuffed.”

Aspirant backs Boroffice

However, in a surprise move, one of the APC governorship aspirant, Mr. Olaoluwa Michael Adeyeye, has thrown his weight behind Senator Ajayi Boroffice.

In a statement Adeyeye noted that Boroffice possessed the popularity required to win the election for the APC in Ondo.

Adeyeye said: “Only Senator Boroffice has the intellectual capacity and the exposure that can spearhead governance that will outshine the achievements of the outgoing PDP government of Dr. Olusegun Mimiko. I have painstakingly considered the credentials of my fellow aspirants and I want to state that most of us have what it takes to lead our state to Canaan. However, I must say that among all of us in APC, one person stands out and the person is Senator Ajayi Boroffice.”