http://www.india.com/whatever/muharram-2016-when-and-what-is-mourning-of-muharram-and-ashura-fasting-all-you-need-to-know-653330/
120
12
Muharram – is an important occasion which marks the holy day of Ashura. Muharram is one of the four sacred months of the year and is considered the holiest month after Ramadan. The word ‘Muharram’ means forbidden and sinful. According to the Islamic calendar, the holy day usually falls on the 10th day in the month of Muharram. Muharram 2016 falls on October 12 and this day is considered as the day of mourning whcih is basically observed by the Shia Muslims. But do you know why does the entire Shia Muslim community mourn on the day of Muharram?

It is believed that Imam Husayn Ibn Ali aka Imam Hussain Ali, was the third Imam of the Shia community. He was even the grandson of the Prophet Muhammad, who was killed on this day. And that’s the major reason why the entire Shia Muslim community flagellate themselves with sharp objects on their heads, chest and back on Muharram. Sunni and Shia community of Muslims celebrate Muharram. Sunni Muslims fast and it is said that it gets recorded in the hadith. People believe that Musa and his army obtained victory over Egyptian Pharaoh. On the other hand Shia Muslims celebrate Muharram in a different way. ALSO READ: Muharram 2016: WhatsApp Status, Quotes, Facebook Messages, SMSes, Images & DP for Muharram Ashura 2016

Muslims fast on the 9th, 10th and 11th day of Muharram, as it is considered the best fast to observe after Ramadan, the month of fasting. It is believed that fasting on Muharram atones for the sins of the coming year. Muharram is all about the sacrifice of Imam Husayn. ALSO READ: Muharram Urdu Shayri, Hindi Messages, Quotes, SMSes, WhatsApp & Facebook Status for this Muharram Ashura 2016

Imam Husayn was killed by the army of the Caliph Yazid in 680 AD at the Battle of Karbala in Iraq. Soon after his death, Islam got divided into two major sections – the Sunnis and the Shias. Muharram is majorly observed by the Shia community who portray their grief and suffering of Imam Husayn in an age old ritual called tatbir.

However, in modern times, some people of the Shia community do not follow this practice, as the self-flagellation is negative, dangerous and scary.On the day of Muharram, devout Shia men and women walk down the streets wearing a black dress. Men hit their chests with knives and chains. They reenact the entire Battle of Karbala and chant ‘Ya Husayn’. Some devotees visit Mashhad al-Husayn, Imam Husayn’s shrine (also known as Husayn’s tomb) in Karbala.