http://thenationonlineng.net/wike-elechi-amadis-family-disagree-govts-burial-committee/
120
12
Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike and the family of the late literary icon, Captain Elechi Amadi, have disagreed on a burial committee the state government set up to accord the writer a state burial.

At the inauguration of the committee yesterday at the Government House in Port Harcourt, the state capital, the governor said the renowned author deserved a befitting burial because of his contributions to the development of the state, Nigeria and humanity.

He urged the family to cooperate with the committee to ensure that the late Ikwerre leader got a befitting burial.

Wike warned against the politicisation of the burial, saying his administration would not struggle with any group to organise the burial.

But the late writer’s family, through Elder Valentine Amadi, kicked against Wike’s composition and inauguration of the burial committee without proper consultation.

During a condolence visit to Amadi’s family at Aluu in Ikwerre Local Government Area, Transportation Minister Rotimi Amaechi, also an Ikwerre and an former Rivers State governor, assured that he and his allies would foot the bill of the burial, considering the deceased’s contributions to the development of the state and other parts of Nigeria.

But during yesterday’s inauguration, Wike said: “If the family (of Amadi) does not want Rivers State Government to participate in the burial, it should make its position known.”

The governor also said the committee was set up after wide consultations with various stakeholders to carry every group along.

He said the inaugurated committee could co-opt more members, as the need might arise.

Wike said: “Nobody should localise the burial of the late Captain Elechi Amadi. In all ramifications, the late Captain Amadi served the nation in extraordinary ways.”

Chairman of the burial committee, Frank Owhor, assured that the members would give the late writer a befitting burial.

Other members of the committee are: David Briggs (Secretary), Prince Paul Wonodi (Deputy Chairman), Chief Monday Mgbor, Hope Ikiriko, Chris Orji, Chairman of Ikwerre LocaL Government Area, Samuel Nwanosike, Henry Wordu, Dr. Preye Elechi-Amadi, Carl Amadi, Azubuike Elechi-Amadi, Prof. S. C. Achinewhu, Ben Ugo and Chief V. Amadi.