http://www.news24.com/SouthAfrica/News/we-will-chase-sabc-board-away-from-parliament-anc-mp-20161011
1243
12
Cape Town – The remaining members of the SABC board will not win the fight to cling to their positions, an ANC MP has said.

This after the board members were sent letters by Parliament's communications committee asking them to resign and some, including the chairperson of the board, flat out refused.

ANC MP Mziwamadoda Kalako on Tuesday bemoaned the "shenanigans" of the board and said it was now up to Communications Minister Faith Muthambi to dissolve it.

The SABC is supposed to appear in front of the committee next week to present its annual report, but the board members are not invited.

"If they show up here, we will chase them away...in essence the board does not exist. I don't know what they are clinging to. If they come here on whose mandate will they appear?"

Two board members resigned during a parliamentary meeting recently, effectively rendering the now four-member board defunct.

Concerns over legitimacy

Kalako said the remaining members were refusing to budge and needed to be taken to task.

"You can see they want a fight. And we are prepared to take them on. They won't win, not this time," he said on Tuesday.

On Friday SABC board chairperson Professor Mbulaheni Maguvhe said he would not be resigning from his position.

Addressing a press conference following a meeting of the parliamentary committee, the defiant chairperson said he would not be going anywhere, "inquiry or no inquiry".

On Wednesday the Democratic Alliance will hold a press conference where the SABC board and its legitimacy will be in the spotlight.

"The DA also has concerns about the legitimacy of the constitution of the SABC board itself and whether its conduct is compliant with the prescripts of the Broadcasting Act which governs it. As such, the DA will also be asking the courts to make a determination on the suitability of the incumbent board and obtain legal certainty on how the board is to be dissolved and a new one appointed," the party said in a statement on Tuesday.

