http://www.business-standard.com/article/politics/goa-fight-is-between-aap-bjp-cong-has-no-chance-kejriwal-116082100405_1.html
20
2
Goa fight is between AAP & BJP, Congress has no chance: Arvind Kejriwal

He said the kind of energy that is visible in Goa is the same that was in Delhi before it went to polls

Delhi Chief Minister and convener asserted that the real fight in the upcoming would be between and the ruling BJP, claiming Congress would not be able to win even a single seat in the 40-member House.

He alleged that wants to win Goa just "to make money," and in the upcoming polls, people of Goa will vote in favour of the "honest" party.

Kejriwal, while talking to reporters after addressing the gathering of SC/ST community members at Quepem village in south Goa, also took a potshot at saying that since the saffron party is afraid of losing Goa, its chief held a public meeting here instead of going to Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh.

"Congress would be completely wiped out from Goa and would not win even a single seat. The straight fight is between and AAP," Kejriwal said while appealing people not to "waste" their vote by supporting Congress.

"As far as is concerned, people rallied behind the party during the 2012 Goa polls. Voters who would not vote for even in their dreams, supported the party because they felt Manohar Parrikar would make a difference. But in the last five years, has cheated the people. The party has turned out to be worse than Congress," he said.

was in Goa on Saturday to launch BJP's election campaign for the Assembly polls due next year.

The Delhi chief minister said Shah does not have a connect with the people of the state.

"He came, addressed a gathering and went. He did not meet people. is meeting people. wants to win Goa to make money," Kejriwal claimed.

He said even Prime Minister Narendra Modi is afraid of losing the party's hold in the state.

"You must have heard that when Chief Minister Laxmikant Parsekar went to meet him (Modi) in Delhi, he was enquiring about the response to my rally in Goa. What does this indicate?," Kejriwal said.

He said the kind of energy that is visible in Goa is the same that was in Delhi before it went to polls.

Taking a dig at leaders, Kejriwal pointed out that during his meeting in the state Shah claimed that Delhi has not seen development in regime.

"I challenge Shah, Parrikar and Parsekar to come to Delhi. I will take them around mohalla clinics and polyclinics. I will show them what development has done. On the other hand, let show me what development they have done in Goa. I can't see anything happening here," he said.

Press Trust of India