http://indianexpress.com/article/india/india-news-india/goa-fight-is-between-aap-bjp-congress-has-no-chance-arvind-kejriwal-2988864/
20
2
Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal during his arrival at Vasco to Dabolim airport in Goa. (PTI Photo) Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal during his arrival at Vasco to Dabolim airport in Goa. (PTI Photo)

Delhi Chief Minister and AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday asserted that the real fight in the upcoming Goa Assembly polls would be between AAP and the ruling BJP, claiming Congress would not be able to win even a single seat in the 40-member House.

He alleged that BJP wants to win Goa just “to make money,” and in the upcoming polls, people of Goa will vote in favour of the “honest” party. Kejriwal, while talking to reporters after addressing the gathering of SC/ST community members at Quepem village insouth Goa, also took a potshot at BJP saying that since the saffron party is afraid of losing Goa, its chief Amit Shah held a public meeting here instead of going to Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. “Congress would be completely wiped out from Goa and would not win even a single seat. The straight fight is between BJP and AAP,” Kejriwal said while appealing people not to “waste” their vote by supporting Congress.

“As far as BJP is concerned, people rallied behind the party during the 2012 Goa polls. Voters who would not vote for BJP even in their dreams, supported the party because they felt Manohar Parrikar would make a difference. But in the last five years, BJP has cheated the people. The party has turned out to be worse than Congress,” he said. Amit Shah was in Goa on Saturday to launch BJP’s election campaign for the Assembly polls due next year. The Delhi chief minister said Shah does not have a connect with the people of the state. “He came, addressed a gathering and went. He did not meet people. AAP is meeting people. BJP wants to win Goa to make money,” Kejriwal claimed.

Watch Video: What’s making news



He said even Prime Minister Narendra Modi is afraid of losing the party’s hold in the state. “You must have heard that when Chief Minister Laxmikant Parsekar went to meet him (Modi) in Delhi, he was enquiring about the response to my rally in Goa. What does this indicate?,” Kejriwal said. He said the kind of energy that is visible in Goa is the same that was in Delhi before it went to polls. Taking a dig at BJP leaders, Kejriwal pointed out that during his meeting in the state Shah claimed that Delhi has not seen development in AAP regime. “I challenge Shah, Parrikar and Parsekar to come to Delhi. I will take them around mohalla clinics and polyclinics. I will show them what development AAP has done. On the other hand, let BJP show me what development they have done in Goa. I can’t see anything happening here,” he said.