http://www.irishsun.com/index.php/sid/248431441
120
12
Australian opposition Labour party rejects same-sex marriage vote

Irish Sun Tuesday 11th October, 2016

• Labour party declares national vote "expensive, divisive"

• PM Turnbull does not confirm if he will allow a parliamentary vote

• Same-sex marriage is supported by 61 percent of Australians: Gallup poll

CANBERRA, Australia - The Australian opposition on Tuesday unanimously decided to block the plebiscite on recognising gay marriage.

In a blow to Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull, the opposition Labour party said it would block a national vote, declaring it "expensive and divisive," which could cause "overwhelming harm."

Turnbull has not confirmed if he will allow a parliamentary vote on same-sex marriage, insisting he has a mandate for a same-sex marriage plebiscite and accusing Labor of "trying to subvert a straightforward democratic process."

Australia's ruling coalition government introduced legislation to parliament last month to hold a public vote in February 2017 on whether to legalise same-sex unions.

The government needs the support of the Labour party because the Liberal-National coalition has only a one-vote majority in the lower house of parliament and does not have a majority in the upper house.

Same-sex marriage is supported by 61 percent of Australians, a Gallop poll in August found, and Turnbull's inability to deliver the legislation could be a significant setback.

While Labor supports gay marriage, it argues the plebiscite would trigger a divisive public debate. Labor said Parliament should decide the issue without asking the public. Labor leader Bill Shorten added it was now “Turnbull’s problem” if the Coalition party agreement or the prime minister’s promises to his conservative colleagues prevent the government from granting a free vote on marriage equality.

"Why should gay Australians be subjected to a different law-making process than any other Australians?" Shorten said.

"Why should a couple in a committed relationship have to knock on the doors of 15 million of their fellow Australians and see if they agree with it? The easiest way is the way which this parliament has done for a hundred years – legislate," he added.

Labor is expected to keep pressing for a free vote in Parliament on whether to legalise same-sex marriage. But a number of senior government ministers have made it clear that will not happen. Nationals MP Andrew Broad also threatened to withdraw his support for the government if it allowed gay couples to marry without holding the plebiscite.

Attorney-General George Brandis earlier on Tuesday urged the opposition to alter their stance.

"We could have this outcome four months from today if the Labor Party put the political games aside," he said.

The government late on Monday night released its draft legislation for implementing a successful same-sex marriage plebiscite - the day before Labor rejected the February 11 popular vote.

Labor's decision effectively renders draft amendments to the Marriage Act redundant.

The proposed changes included redefining marriage as between "two people" instead of "a man and a woman: and allowing ministers of religion to refuse to solemnise a marriage.

Non-religious celebrants can also refuse to marry a same-sex couple on a "conscientious" basis under the proposed legislation.