http://www.express.co.uk/news/uk/719865/Killer-clown-craze-could-damage-professional-clown-business-Britain
120
12
SWNS Professional clown David Rotheram fears the killer clown craze will ruin his business

David Rotheram, has been clowning around in his hometown Port Isaac and all over Cornwall for over 25 years after taking over from his father, who started the family business in 1983. Mr Rotheram, also known as Coz The Clown like his father, said he had noticed a worrying decline in bookings following the start of the killer clown craze which has swept across the UK, US, Canada and Australia. He said: "The stories about scary clowns are having a knock on effect - especially for me because as far as I'm aware I am the only professional clown in Cornwall.

I would hate to have to stop clowning and pursue other work David Rotheram

"Ever since scary clowns have been trending on Facebook I've noticed a drop in interest. "Normally I get an inquiry on Facebook everyday but things have gotten seriously quiet. "I understand clowning is different and people often have varied opinions - there is definitely a stigma attached but most professional clowns love what they do. "If the quiet spell continues I will look into re-branding myself and instead of 'Coz The Clown' I will just be 'Coz' in an attempt to step away from the stigma."

SWNS

SWNS People have been dressing up as killer clowns and scaring people across Britain

Mr Rotheram said he was worried to be out in public in his costume in case he was mistaken for a killer clown. He added: "I am concerned that if I finish a show and go to the supermarket I will be attacked. I've seen people write on social media that if they see anyone dressed as a clown they will attack them.

SWNS Mr Rotheram has noticed a drop in interest since pranksters starting dressing up as clowns

"I would hate to have to stop clowning and pursue other work - that would be incredibly sad. "I can't believe that people have been carrying hammers and knives." Mr Rotheram said that he tried to dumb down his act to make it less scary for young children.

Creepy clown sightings Tue, October 11, 2016 Clown hysteria started in the US after a number of sightings the phenomena has spread worldwide and no-one knows why. Play slideshow 1 of 16