http://www.nytimes.com/2016/10/12/world/asia/china-henan-stereotypes-lawsuit-discrimination.html
125
12
Photo

BEIJING — Henan has a P.R. problem, but Jing Changshui has an answer. He’s suing.

A province of 100 million on the flat, brown expanse of central China, Henan suffers from a blighted reputation. It is not the prettiest part of China, to be sure.

But much worse, some people from other parts of China treat residents there with a disdain and mistrust that approaches racism. If you believe the slurs, Henan is crammed with thieves, ruffians, grifters and con artists.

After a recent round of mockery of Henan from an aspiring television celebrity, Mr. Jing, a science journalist from the province, decided he had had enough. He resolved to sue for damages to his reputation as a resident of the province.

“As a Henanese, I’m duty bound to defend the image of Henan,” Mr. Jing said in a telephone interview. “He’s been insulting Henanese for a long time.”

A court in Zhengzhou, the capital of Henan, has accepted the case. But Mr. Jing knows that even if he wins the damages he has demanded — 1,000 renminbi, or about $150 — it will not go far in scrubbing the offensive stereotypes.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“Henan has so many people, and a lot go out to do migrant labor on low-end jobs,” Mr. Jing said. “All it takes is for a one or two of them to do something bad, and then many people make a hullabaloo that Henan has a rotten image.”

The name Henan means “south of the river,” after the Yellow River, which cuts across the province’s northern reaches. It prides itself on being the birthplace of the early dynasties that make it the “cradle of Chinese civilization.” But it is crowded, heavily rural and not as polished as coastal regions. The rough charms of the province are not for all travelers.

Its people also face discrimination.

Migrant workers from Henan have complained about being turned down for jobs because of where they come from.

A decade ago, the police in one district of Shenzhen, in southern China, hung banners declaring, “Resolutely attack Henan blackmail and extortion gangs.”

When AIDS spread across Henan through the illegal blood trade in the late 1990s, rumors spread that vengeful victims had injected watermelons with H.I.V.-infected blood. The market for watermelons from Henan collapsed.

For years, residents have tried to fight the derision. In 2002, the problem inspired a widely discussed book, “Who Did Henan People Offend?” Last year, the province showed a promotional video in Times Square in New York in an attempt to improve its image.

But the mockery has continued. Mr. Jing said he decided to do something after Hu Wei, the aspiring television celebrity, unleashed the latest of a succession of slurs on Weibo, a popular Chinese microblog service.

Mr. Hu said on Weibo in mid-August that a woman was “shameless, like a Henanese.” Mr. Hu later claimed that someone had stolen his account password and posted the insults under his name. But they were not the first time he had mocked Henan, Mr. Jing said.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Critics have suggested that Mr. Jing might have trouble proving he has the standing to sue against such a broad slur. But Mr. Jing said the court in Zhengzhou had agreed to hear the case against Mr. Hu and the microblog service, and Legal Daily, the paper of the government legal establishment, said last month that a court hearing would promote “using legal means to improve current social mores.”

Mr. Jing said that Mr. Hu, who has appeared on TV contest shows, appears to have gone into hiding and has not responded to phone calls and messages about the case. The court has not set a date for a hearing, but Mr. Jing said he hoped the case would make a point, even if the judge awards only token damages and orders Mr. Hu to apologize. Calls to Mr. Hu’s phone were not answered.

There is one catch: Mr. Jing is not a born-and-bred Henanese. He was born in Shandong Province, on the eastern coast. But Mr. Jing, 46, said he had made Henan his home since 1992 and was unfazed by that association.

“I’m also Henanese now, a first-generation migrant,” Mr. Jing said. “The hospitality and acceptance you find in Henan has changed my personality, made me less irritable.”