http://newyork.cbslocal.com/2016/10/10/manhattanville-college-student-killed/
120
12
WHITE PLAINS, N.Y. (CBSNewYork) — One Manhattanville College student is dead after being hit by a vehicle this past weekend, while another has been arrested and charged with driving drunk and causing his death.

As CBS2’s Lou Young reported, Robby Schartner, 21, was killed by the alleged drunken driver on a dark roadway two miles from the Manhattanville College campus in Westchester County, where he attended school.

Even with most students home for the holiday weekend Monday, the small school was reeling.

“He was very popular here with the students, staff and faculty. It’s very tragic; very unfortunate, because we just found out yesterday. I mean, we’re all still in shock right now, basically,” said Manhattanville College spokeswoman J.J. Pryor.

Schartner was a junior and a member of the school’s lacrosse team.

The woman arrested in connection with his death is also going to school. Emma Fox, 24, was being held on $100,000 bail late Monday.

It appeared that both college students were leaving downtown White Plains just before 5 a.m. Sunday. Fox was driving a 2012 Nissan Sentra, Schartner was on foot, police said.

The accident took place near a ramp where Westchester Avenue meets Anderson Hill Road. Fox pulled over in the pre-dawn darkness and called 911, telling the operator she thought she had hit something, police said.

Arriving officers discovered Schartner’s body in the road.

“In her heart, she’ll never be the same, you know?” said Frank Byrne, a neighbor of Fox’s. “It’s just awful.”

Fox lives in an apartment over a bar in Rye. Byrne said her family is local.

“She’s a college student and she works for the family business and everyone’s devastated,” Byrne said. “I know her very well. She’s very good friends with my daughter, and she is the sweetest person on the planet. She will never be the same.”

The charge against Fox is vehicular manslaughter and driving while intoxicated. Police said Fox blew twice the legal limit when she took the breathalyzer test at the scene.

Fox did not attend Manhattanville College with Schartner.