https://www.yahoo.com/news/sitrep-turkey-muscling-mosul-chinese-115725638.html
120
12
The Aleppo factor. Moscow’s attempts to cajole the European Union into easing economic sanctions imposed after Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and annexation of Crimea in 2014 don’t appear to be working. And the indiscriminate bombing campaign in Aleppo is to blame.

“It’s clear that the assault on Aleppo has changed the mindset of some,” one EU foreign minister tells Reuters. “It will be impossible to back an easing of sanctions on Ukraine in the current context.” A French diploma adds, “The prospect of the Russian sanctions over Ukraine being lifted are practically nil after Aleppo.” The new resolve among some of the EU’s larger members may halt what was a growing campaign led by countries like Italy and Hungary to ease the sanctions. While new sanctions appear unlikely, EU leaders will discuss Russia during a meeting in Brussels Oct. 20-21.

Turkey wants in. Tensions between Turkey and Iraq are entering dangerous territory over the continuing refusal of Turkey to pull troops out of a base near Mosul in northern Iraq. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan ripped into Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi on Tuesday, saying Abadi needs to “know his limits,” adding, “Iraq had certain requests from us regarding Bashiqa, [the Turkish base in Iraq] and now they are telling us to leave, but the Turkish army has not lost so much standing as to take orders from you.” Erdogan also said that Turkish troops would participate in the upcoming fight for the ISIS-held city of Mosul, a fight Baghdad and Washington have not asked Ankara to join.

Words mean things. Ankara also lashed out at Democratic nominee for president Hillary Clinton’s call on Sunday to arm Kurds fighting Islamic State in Syria. Turkish Prime Minister Binali Yildirim said Tuesday that such calls are “unethical,” adding that Turkey could push into Kurdish-held areas east of the Euphrates River in Syria if it sees “terrorist activities” there, as Turkey considers all armed Kurdish groups to be terrorists. Turkish-backed rebels and special forces pushed into northern Syria in August in a move that surprised Washington, in an effort to drive both the Islamic State and the Kurds off of Turkey’s southern border.

Chinese protests. China’s plan to slim down its military by around 300,000 troops for a leaner, meaner force is garnering some pushback. Reuters reports that sacked troops have been protesting the move in Beijing, saying that they haven’t received their promised transition benefits to be set up in civilian jobs after being fired. As the wire service notes, protests, even by soldiers, are not necessarily a rarity in China. Nonetheless, Beijing officials appear to be closely monitoring the protest, blocking demonstrators’ access to a military building in the city as well as reporters’ access to the protest.

Congress eying Saudi over strikes. Members of Congress are bristling over continued U.S. military aid to Saudi Arabia in the wake of last week’s devastating airstrike in Sanaa that killed 140 civilians attending a funeral. “The continuing civilian carnage caused by the Saudi Arabia-led military coalition in Yemen appears to be war crimes,” Rep. Ted Lieu (D-Calif.) told FP’s John Hudson Monday. Lieu, who earlier led an unsuccessful House effort to block a $1.15 billion arms deal to Saudi Arabia, demanded the U.S. immediately cease support to the Saudi coalition while the Obama administration reviews options to permanently pull American assistance. On Sunday, Sen. Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) added, “the administration should pull U.S. support for the Saudi-led war in Yemen.” Officials at the White House and State Department declined Monday to specify which types of U.S. support to the Saudi coalition could be withheld, or if Washington was still providing targeting information to the coalition. The U.S. currently provides refueling and logistical support to Riyadh’s air force.

Taliban push through in Helmand. The Taliban finally punctured the provincial capital of Helmand province on Monday, detonating a suicide car bomb and mounting other attacks that killed 14, just two days after Gen. John W. Nicholson, the top U.S. and NATO military commander in Afghanistan, flew to the city to promise defenders it wouldn’t fall.

“We are with you and we will stay with you,” Nicholson told a small group inside a police compound. “Lashkar Gah will not fall.” Indeed, it didn’t, and government forces pushed the attackers out, but the city remains virtually surrounded by Taliban fighters who control most of the province despite 15 years of American military involvement, and over $60 billion in U.S. military aid. Last month, Nicholson said that the Taliban has control over 10 percent of Afghanistan’s population, while Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Joseph Dunford told a Congressional panel that the government controlled about 70 percent of the country.