http://m.themalaymailonline.com/malaysia/article/johor-speaker-says-bn-still-has-two-thirds-majority-despite-defection
120
12
Johor Speaker says BN still has two-thirds majority despite defection

Share this article

Datuk Dr Shahruddin Md Salleh relinquished his position to show his dissatisfaction over the party’s move to sack Tan Sri Muhyiddin Yassin (pic) as Umno deputy president. — Picture by Choo Choy MayKUALA LUMPUR, Oct 11— Barisan Nasional (BN) still has two-thirds majority in the Johor legislative assembly despite an Umno assemblyman purportedly defecting to Parti Pribumi Bersatu Malaysia (PPB), the state’s assembly speakers said.

The New Straits Times reported Tan Sri Mohamad Aziz as saying that a two-thirds majority in the state meant holding 36 out of 56 seats, adding that at the present moment, BN still holds 37 seats after Datuk Dr Shahruddin Md Salleh’s defection from Umno.

“When one BN assemblyman defect to another party, it leaves 37 seats under BN,” he was quoted as saying.

Mohamad reportedly said that even if BN lost the two-thirds majority, it would not affect legislative proceedings because most Bills at the state assembly only required a simple majority.

He added that a two-thirds majority was only needed when amending an Act.

“Even when that happens, any amendment must have the approval of the Johor Sultan, as well as other requirements that need to be fulfilled,” he was quoted as saying.

In the news report, Mohamad said Shahruddin, who is Jorak assemblyman, has yet to submit a written notification to the assembly to inform them of his move to PPBM.

Recently, PPBM president Tan Sri Muhyiddin Yassin announced the appointment of Shahruddin as the party’s secretary-general.

Shahruddin reportedly left his position as Pagoh Umno division vice-chairman in July.

It is learnt that he relinquished his position to show his dissatisfaction over the party’s move to sack Muhyiddin as Umno deputy president.

Kluang MP Liew Chin Tong had subsequently said that the opposition would only need 10 more state seats to replace the BN administration in the state.