http://www.ibtimes.com/kim-kardashian-paris-robbed-update-khloe-confirms-sisters-instagram-blackout-2429553
1246
12
“Keeping Up With the Kardashians” star Kim Kardashian will not return to social media any time soon. Her sister, Khloé Kardashian, talked about Kim’s mental state after she was robbed at gunpoint in Paris last week. And she hasn’t been handing it well.

“She's not doing that well. It's incredibly traumatic what happened to her, but our family is super close and great and we'll get through it together,” Khloé, 32, said on “The Ellen DeGeneres Show” Tuesday. “We do appreciate all of your guys' love and support. It will take time. It was horrible what happened to her.”

Kim was gagged, handcuffed and thrown into the bathroom in the middle of Paris Fashion Week. The five masked thieves reportedly stole up to $11 million in the heist. The priciest item they confiscated was her diamond engagement ring from husband Kanye West, which was valued at $4.5 million.

The 35-year-old beauty hasn’t posted online since the attack. “I think it's just a wake-up call to make a lot of life adjustments,” Khloé said about Kim’s social media activity. “This is a really serious matter and for Kim I think it's very personal for when that emotional terror — [when] you can move on from that. I think for us it's all a wake-up call for all of us but just definitely to make sure that our sister is OK.”

In fact, all of the Kardashian-Jenner sisters are going to cool down with their social media activity. “[We want to] make sure that we are protected as well as possible. Like I said, we are a family and we will do this together and I think it is important to maybe make those adjustments. And [to] pull back a little bit is always smart,” she said.

Kim feared she would be rapped or killed during the attack. “She thought there was going to be a sexual assault or that she was going to be killed in the bathroom,” an insider told Us Weekly Wednesday. “They did not speak English. Kim was hysterically crying, begging for her life, telling them about her babies.” Her children, North, 3, and Saint, 10 months, were in New York when the robbery occurred.

“Keeping Up With the Kardashians” has not filmed since the incident.

Photo: Michael Rozman/Warner Bros.

Follow me on Twitter @mariamzzarella