http://www.business-standard.com/article/pti-stories/oil-pipeline-protest-turns-violent-in-southern-north-dakota-116090400126_1.html
120
12
Oil pipeline protest turns violent in southern North Dakota

A protest of a four-state, USD 3.8 billion oil pipeline turned violent after tribal officials said construction crews destroyed American Indian burial and cultural sites on private land in southern North Dakota.



Morton County Sheriff's Office spokeswoman Donnell Preskey said four private security guards and two guard dogs were injured after several hundred protesters confronted construction crews yesterday afternoon at the site just outside the Standing Rock Sioux reservation.



One of the security officers was taken to a Bismarck hospital for undisclosed injuries. The two guard dogs were taken to a Bismarck veterinary clinic, Preskey said.



Tribe spokesman Steve Sitting Bear said protesters reported that six people had been bitten by security dogs, including a young child.



At least 30 people were pepper-sprayed, he said. Preskey said enforcement authorities had no reports of protesters being injured.



There were no enforcement personnel at the site when the incident occurred, Preskey said. The crowd disbursed when officers arrived and no one was arrested, she said.



The incident occurred within half a mile of an encampment where hundreds of people have gathered to join the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe's protest of the oil pipeline that is slated to cross the Missouri River nearby.



The tribe is challenging the Army Corps of Engineers' decision to grant permits for Dallas-based Energy Transfer Partners' Dakota Access pipeline, which crosses the Dakotas and Iowa to Illinois, including near the reservation in southern North Dakota.



A federal judge will rule before September 9 whether construction can be halted on the Dakota Access pipeline.



Energy Transfer Partners did not return phone calls and emails from The Associated Press yesterday seeking comment.



The tribe fears it's a project they fear will disturb sacred sites and impact drinking water for thousands of tribal members on the Standing Rock Sioux Reservation and millions further downstream.



The protest yesterday came one day after the tribe filed court papers saying it found several sites of "significant cultural and historic value" along the path of the proposed pipeline.



Tribal preservation officer Tim Mentz said in court documents that the tribe was only recently allowed to survey private land north of the Standing Rock Sioux reservation.



Mentz said researchers found burials rock piles called cairns and other sites of historic significance to Native Americans.

(This story has not been edited by Business Standard staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)

AP