http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/republican-party-gender-gap_us_57fcf26ae4b0b6a4303581c7
120
12
WASHINGTON― When Barack Obama defeated Mitt Romney by double digits among women in 2012, it seemed as if the GOP’s “woman problem” had hit its nadir.

Conservative state legislatures across the country appeared obsessed with restricting abortion. Romney had awkwardly boasted in a debate that he had “binders full of women” from which he could staff his administration as Massachusetts governor. Republican Senate candidate Todd Akin said women who are victims of “legitimate rape” cannot get pregnant because “the female body has ways to try to shut the whole thing down.” Conservative mega-donor Foster Friess quipped that “gals” should just put aspirin “between their knees” to prevent pregnancy.

It all added up to calamity for the Republican Party. Female voters soundly rejected Romney, Akin and other male GOP candidates in 2012. A record number of Democratic women were elected to office. And frustrated Republican leaders ordered a full autopsy of the party to diagnose its image problems.

“They did a whole lot of self-examination after the election and came to the conclusion that women didn’t like what they were seeing ― old, rich, grouchy white men that they didn’t have a lot in common with,” Katie Packer, a strategist the GOP enlisted to help repair its image, told The Huffington Post on Monday.

Instead of emerging from the ashes of that autopsy as a more women-friendly party, the GOP has instead gone in the exact opposite direction. The Republican Party has sewed up its corpse and sauntered back out of the exam room a grotesque, Frankenstein’s-monster-like version of its former self. Even its own members view it as far more terrifying to women than it was before, with an openly misogynistic leader who once boasted that he could “grab” women “by the pussy” because he’s a celebrity.

“I think we’re seeing the difference now between real attacks on women and what was very much fabricated in 2012,” Packer said. “One of the reasons I got into this business of trying to help the party message to women is because I did feel like a lot of the attacks on men were unwarranted and unfair and hyper-politicized.”

“Romney’s ‘binders full of women’ comment was poorly worded, but the sentiment behind it was something we should be supporting as women ― that he was actively looking for capable, qualified women to serve in his administration,” she continued. “Now we’re seeing the difference between ‘inarticulate’ and ‘total disregard and disrespect for women.’”