http://www.thenational.ae/uae/courts/dubai-jobseeker-raped-in-back-of-car-of-job-advert-posters
10
1
DUBAI // Two men kidnapped, raped, robbed and threatened to kill a woman who was applying for a job, a court has been told.

They also used a Taser gun on her before she kicked one and escaped from their car.

The Filipino woman quit her job as a receptionist in May last year and found a vacancy posted on Dubizzle, for which she expressed interest.

"On May 23 last year I received a call regarding the job and the man told me to come for an interview," said the victim.

They met that day at Burjuman Metro Station, where the defendants arrived in a car and said they would drive her to the company office, where the interview was to take place, she said.

"I was on the phone so I didn’t noticed the car model or number," she said.

On the way, the two men started touching her so she told them to stop and then punched one of them to the nose, after which they used the Taser to subdue her, she said.

"I tried to draw the attention of passing cars by knocking on the window but I was pulled down to the floor of the car," she said.

The court heard the pair threatened to kill her if she did not stop resisting. She was told that if she did not cooperate they would let their friends rape her too.

She said the men, aged 32 and 30, took turns raping her.

"When one of them wanted to rape me again I told him I would do it willingly if he untied my legs, and when he did I kicked him and jumped out of the car," said the woman.

She said her attackers fled when they saw her running towards a group of workers.

The woman went to police, who arrested the defendants shortly afterwards.

"One confessed to me that he raped her after luring her on Dubizzle with a job," said an Emirati policeman.

A medical report showed that the woman had suffered bruises that may have been from the attack, and others that were caused by a Taser.

In Dubai Criminal Court on Monday, the accused denied charges of rape, kidnap, issuing threats and theft.

The next hearing is scheduled for October 31.

salamir@thenational.ae