http://www.tribune.net.ph/headlines/yasay-says-int-l-media-pick-up-malicious-spin
120
12
By Ted Tuvera

and Joyce Ann L. Rocamora



The aides of President Duterte are again doing the unenviable job of putting out the fire from another controversial outburst of Duterte as Foreign Affairs Secretary Perfecto Yasay said the comparison to Nazi leader Adolf Hitler was “a malicious spin to sow hatred against Duterte and destabilize the country.”

The Hitler comparison, however, came straight from the President himself in an effort to desribe his ruthlessness against drug offenders and criminals.

Yasay said Duterte “did not compare his all-out war on illicit drugs to Hitler’s evil campaign (Holocaust), much less, justify his tough and uncompromising stance against the deadly scourge.”

“Contextually, he assured the people that he was not waging a war against illegal drugs to exterminate the more than 3 million addicts and drug users in the country the way the Jews were exterminated by Hitler’s Nazis in Europe during WWII,” said Yasay in a social media account post.

“I was there in front of him as he spoke when we arrived in Davao City about 2 a.m. after a hectic schedule in the service of the nation in Hanoi,” he said.

The tough talking President decried the comparison when he alleged that an unnamed critic has compared him to the Nazi Party leader.

He said equating him to Hitler isunfair, “if you were in my position, why wouldn’t you curse? You’re portrayed or pictured to be some… a cousin of Hitler. And you do not even bother to find out, to investigate,” the President has lashed.

Giving his comment another thought, Duterte then indicated that if Hitler has killed millions of Jews during his era, he too would do the same but with millions of drug pusher and drug addicts in the Philippines.

“Hitler massacred three million Jews. Now there is three million drug addicts [in the country], there are.”

“I’d be happy to slaughter them. At least if Germany had Hitler, the Philippines would have...,” he said without ending the statement.

Abella: ‘Misquoted’

Presidential Spokesman Ernesto Abella, meanwhile, said Duterte was taken out of context, which was the standard defense used on most of the President’s controversial statements.

“The President’s reference to the slaughter was an oblique deflection of the way he has been pictured as a mass murderer, a Hitler, a label he rejects,” Abella said in a statement yesterday.

“He was just addressing the negative comparison that people made between him and Hitler,” he added.

However, Abella clarified that when the President said he would slaughter 3 million addicts (not merely dealers) it means that he wants to save the next generation of Filipinos from the narcotics menace.

“Hitler murdered 3 million innocent civilians whereas Duterte was referencing to his ‘willingness to kill’ 3 million criminal drug dealers - to save the future of the next generation and the country. Those are two entirely different things,” the Presidential spokesman said.

Abella says that the Philippines is not being irreverent to the Jewish people, adding that the killings under the Duterte administration shouldn’t be compared to Hitler’s extermination of Jews.

“The Philippines recognizes the deep significance of the Jewish experience especially their tragic and painful history. We do not wish to diminish the profound loss of 6 million Jews in the Holocaust - that deep midnight of their story as a people,” Abella said.

Since Duterte took office on June 30, police have killed more than 1,200 people and about 1,800 others have died in unexplained circumstances, according to official figures.

Du30 warns US senators

In the same arrival address Friday morning, Duterte said the United States should not interfere in the Philippines’ affairs, particularly in the government’s intensified war on drugs.

Duterte was reacting to the remarks made by American senators Benjamin Cardin and Patrick Leahy that the Duterte administration has taken the wrong way in dealing with the Philippines’ drug menace.

”Do not interfere in our affairs,” Duterte said during a press conference upon his arrival from a two-day official visit to Vietnam at the Davao International Airport.

The President said the US has its “own sins”, referring to the shooting of African Americans, invading Iraq on the “flimsy” excuse that it has weapons of mass destruction, and undermining Libya, “which is now a destroyed nation”.

”I would like to appeal in answering the two senators. I’d like to (say to) the government of the United States: Stop this hypocrisy game and we are all right. Stop being hypocrites. Do not pretend to be the moral conscience of the world. Do not be the policeman because you do not have the eligibility to do that in my country,” he said.

Recently, President Duterte invited the US, the United Nation rapporteur and even the European Union to come to the Philippines to investigate the alleged extrajudicial killings of drug suspects before making any judgment.

Duterte, however, said he should also be allowed to ask questions to the members of the international investigating teams.

”US, EU, you can call me anything. But I was never into or I am never into hypocrisy like you,” the President said.

”Close your doors, it’s winter time, there are migrants escaping from the Middle East, you allow them to rot and then you are worried about the death of about 1,000, 2,000, 3,000?” he added.

Duterte has said 11,000 policemen and 16,000 barangay officials are involved in the illegal drug trade.