http://www.indiatimes.com/news/bhagwat-hails-surgical-strikes-grenade-attack-on-crpf-convoy-in-shopian-other-must-read-stories-263366.html
120
12
Rashtriya Swamsewak Sangh (RSS), Chief Mohan Bhagwat in his address on Vijay Dashmi today hailed NDA government's various actions including the recent surgical strikes in PoK.

Bhagwat also praised Modi government and said that country is heading towards a better future, but there are powers which don't want India to progress. Read more

1. Eight Including CRPF Personnel Injured In Grenade Attack On Paramilitary Convoy In Shopian

While an operation is underway to flush out terrorists held up in a government building in Pampore, the Indian troops came under another terror attack on Tuesday. Less than 50 kilometers away from Pampore, in Shopian a paramilitary convoy came under a grenade attack.

According to initial reports at least one CRPF personnel and seven civilians have been injured in the incident. Read more

2. During Kargil War, Indian Troops Were Stopped From Entering In PoK By Vajpayee, Says Former Army Chief

It was at the instructions of the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, the Indian Army refrained from crossing over to Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (PoK) in 1999, Gen. (rtd) VP Malik army chief, who led the Kargil operation has said.

According to The Indian Express, Malik said the Army was ready to cross the LoC to retaliate the Pakistani incursion, but it was stopped by Vajpayee. Read more

3. Amid India-Pak Tension A Ramlila In Punjab Features Nawaz Sharif As Ravan, Hafiz Saeed As Meghnath

With passions running high against Pakistan following Uri terror attack in Jammu and Kashmir, which claimed the lives of 18 Indian soldiers, the Azaad Dussehra Committee, Millerganj, has decided to burn the effigy of Pakistan prime minister Nawaz Sharif and 26/11 mastermind Hafiz Saeed in place of demon king Ravan and his son Meghnath, respectively.

Explaining why they chose Pakistan PM as Ravan and Hafiz as Meghnath, members of Azaad Dussehra Committee said this festival celebrates the victory of good over evil and this time Pakistan has committed a lot of evil activities at the border. Read more

4. Ruby Rai Wants To Make A Fresh Start, Studying Hard For Next Year's Exams

In a bid to leave the topper controversy behind, Ruby Rai is said to be preparing hard to re-appear in the examination to be conducted by the Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) next year. According to sources, 17-year-old Ruby, who is currently at a correction home, is studying in a systematic way to pass the next year's examination.

“She is busy in studies day and night. She comes out of her room only twice or thrice a day. She wants to re-appear in the 10+2 examination next year,” said a person deployed in her security at the correctional home. Read more

5. Pakistani Lawyer Wants His Govt To Claim Mohenjodaro's 'Dancing Girl' From India

In a bid to get rid of their Indian roots, Pakistan have always tried to associate themselves with Arabs. Be it the Turkish flag on their currency notes or the names of their missiles, tanks and other weapons, Pakistanis always look to embrace their lineage while forsaking their real roots in India or Indus Valley Civilization.

But now a Pakistani lawyer has filed a petition to ask the government of Pakistan to claim a 5,000-year-old bronze statue called 'Dancing Girl' from India. Read more

6. Disability Pension For Soldiers Not Reduced, But Significantly Increased, Claims Government After Controversy

The Union government has rubbished media reports which claimed disability pension for the armed forces had been reduced and slammed negative reporting on the issue by the "usual suspects".

"Media reports have tried to create an impression, by selective misquoting, that the disability pensions have been slashed. The truth is that the disability pension for non-battle cases has increased for majority of the personnel." Read more