http://www.thenational.scot/news/john-swinney-urged-to-end-anomaly-of-tax-breaks-for-private-schools.23416
120
12
John Swinney urged to 'end anomaly' of tax breaks for private schools

If you would prefer unlimited access, please support our journalism with a website subscription. Subscribe today for just £3.99 a month.

Registered users can read up to 10 articles for free each month.

Will fin breid, barley-bree an paintit room. Whan MacLean meets wi's friens in Springburn. Aa thae roses an geeans will turn tae blume. An a black laud frae yont Nyanga. Dings the fell gallows o the burghers doun.

Black an white ane-til-ither mairriet. Mak the vile barracks o thair maisters bare. Sae come aa ye at hame wi freedom. Never heed whit the houdies croak for Doom. In yer hous aa the bairns o Aidam.

Tak the road an seek ither loanins. Wi thair ill-ploys tae sport an play. Nae mair will our bonnie callants. Merch tae war whan our braggarts crousely craw. Nor wee weans frae pitheid an clachan. Murn the ships sailin doun the Broomielaw. Broken faimilies in launs we've hairriet. Will curse 'Scotlan the Brave' nae mair, nae mair.

Roch the win i the clear day's dawin. Blaws the clouds heilster-gowdie owre the bay. But thair's mair nor a roch win blawin. Thro the Great Glen o the warl the day. It's a thocht that wad gar our rottans. Aa thae rogues that gang gallus fresh an gay.

EDUCATION secretary John Swinney is to be urged by SNP conference delegates to “end an anomaly” which sees fee-paying schools get lucrative tax breaks while state schools do not.

EDUCATION secretary John Swinney is to be urged by SNP conference delegates to “end an anomaly” which sees fee-paying schools get lucrative tax breaks while state schools do not.

A resolution has been put down by the party’s Newington and South Edinburgh branch which notes the role of education in combating inequality and calls on the Scottish Government to give local authority schools the same financial advantage as private schools.

The motion, expected to be debated on Saturday, asks ministers to amend the Charities Act 2005 to allow state schools to have charitable status like their independent counterparts. “Conference recognises the crucial role which educational opportunity plays in the creation of a more equal Scotland,” it says.

“Conference notes the current anomaly which exists in Scotland whereby private schools are accorded charitable status and state schools are disqualified.

“Conference calls upon the Scottish Government to relieve state schools of taxation burdens by making the necessary amendments to the 2005 Charities Act to enable them to hold charitable status.”

Independent schools, which educate around 4 per cent of pupils in Scotland, receive tax breaks worth millions of pounds a year due to being classed as charities.

The benefit means they do not have to pay corporation tax on profits, are able to receive relief on business rates and can also receive gift aid on cash donations from individuals.

However, in order to be awarded and retain the status they have to pass a “public benefit” test laid down by the Office of the Scottish Charities Regulator proving they provide benefits to the wider community. Handing bursaries to pupils from less privileged backgrounds falls under the test’s assessment.

Last year a study found that the senior echelons of Scottish society are dominated by an elite group of people who attended private schools while people from poorer backgrounds are prevented from reaching the top of their chosen professions by a “class ceiling”. The issue was particularly the case in the legal profession where researchers at the Social Mobility and Child Poverty Commission found that 45 per cent of senior judges were privately educated.

The former Education Secretary Mike Russell warned independent schools six years ago that they risk losing charitable status if they fail to provide benefits to the wider community.

This week’s call by SNP delegates comes after the Scottish Government consults on plans to reform how state education is run following an election vow to give more funding directly to headteachers at the expense of councils.

Jim Thewliss, general secretary of School Leaders’ Scotland, said he would welcome an opportunity to consider proposals to give charitable status to state schools.

Andrea Bradley, assistant secretary of the trade union, the Educational Institute of Scotland, said charitable status to private schools fostered inequality, adding: “However, any type of conversion to charitable status for state schools would have significant implications for governance.”

John Edward, director of the Scottish Council of Independent Schools, said state schools were the exception in not being allowed to have charitable status.

He said: “It’s not just independent schools that have charitable status, a whole range of education providers have it, such as student unions, higher education institutions, the Royal College of Surgeons.

“The exception in the education world in not having it is the state sector. I think for schools looking to increase parental involvement and be more autonomous, this would be a good thing.”

Edward denied that charitable status fostered inequality.