http://leadership.ng/news/546974/%E2%80%8Eondo-2016-apc-has-no-preferred-candidate-oyegun-assures-aspirants
20
2
The National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief John Odigie-Oyegun on Saturday assured party aspirants in the forthcoming Ondo State gubernatorial election saying it no preferred or anointed candidate in the upcoming primaries.

Oyegun further stated that preparatory to the primaries and in order to ensure transparency, the clean copy of the delegates list would be made available to the state chairman just as he urged them to shun divisive tendencies, close ranks and chase away the Peoples Democratic Party PDP-led administration in the state.

The APC national chairman said this yesterday at the end of the reconciliation parley with the aspirants and some top party stalwarts at the national secretariat of the party in Abuja, ahead of the primaries to choose the flagbearer who will fly the party’s flag.

Recall that the APC in Ondo state had been enmeshed in crisis following allegations that a national leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu had endorsed one of the aspirants with the intention of imposing him on the party.

Oyegun said ” I think we have all accepted that there is nothing wrong in anybody, member of the party or even non-member, endorsing any of the aspirants.

We have also accepted unanimously that there would be no attempt on the part of the party to impose any aspirant on the party and on the electorate in Ondo state. So we have drawn a clear distinction between endorsement and imposition.

“I want to state in very clear terms to reassure all the aspirants that the party at the national level has no preferred aspirant and is not going to endorse any aspirant. They are all equal members of the party, our children who have entrusted in us the management of the affairs of their party.

The man who was responsible for raising the alarm and an aspirant, Tunji Abayomi, while giving reasons why he wrote the letter, said “my motive was to ensure that the prescription of the constitution is strictly complied with and to ensure that APC on Ondo state has no candidate and has not endorsed anybody. If Asiwaju Tinubu has endorsed somebody, it is not the same thing as an endorsement by the APC and therefore the chairman of the party has clarified it.

“APC has not endorsed anybody and in fact as a matter of ethics, no exco member is expected to be on the side of any particular aspirant; they are all expected to. Be treated equally you cannot treat equals unequally or unequals equally.

“Tinubu is free to support anyone but that is different from somebody inviting the apparatus of the party and asking them that this is the candidate of the party, go and work for him and I will fund it.”

Oyegun had earlier urged the aspirants to emulate their counterparts in Lagos state who rallied round the party’s candidate, Akinwumi Ambode in the aftermath of the party’s primary election in the state last year.

Urging the aspirants to be frank and open in their discussion, Odigie-Oyegun said they stand to blame in the event that the APC loses the governorship poll.

“In Akure, as in the presidential primaries, we were fighting to remove an incumbent, a sitting president and now a sitting governor in the case of Ondo and for you to do that, you must be united. So, if there is no unity, you are the one that is losing the election; it won’t be that the other party won the election but that you donated it. I appeal to you to be as forthright as possible”, he pleaded.