http://www.themalaymailonline.com/malaysia/article/indonesia-turns-down-help-to-put-out-fires
125
12
Indonesia turns down help to put out fires

The API reading in Ipoh yesterday was 90. — Picture by Farhan Najib PETALING JAYA , Aug 20— Indonesia is making a desperate effort to tackle the dramatic increase in the number of forest fires and has turned down assistance to extinguish them.

Natural Resources and Environment Minister Datuk Seri Wan Junaidi Tuanku Jaafar told Malay Mail the Indonesians had built up their capabilities from last year.

“They have told us the situation is under control and they have the capability in terms of equipment to deal with the fires on their territory. But we are monitoring the situation,” he said after being briefed by his Indonesian counterpart.

“It is worrying to note the number of fires have gone up dramatically in a relatively short space of time. Two aircraft from their air force are conducting water bombing in central Kalimantan, and one Bell 412 helicopter with a (bucket) has been sent to west Kalimantan as of Thursday.

“They have also set up a command centre in Jakarta to monitor and organise fire control and patrols in six fire prone provinces, namely Riau, South Sumatra, Jamni and west, central and east Kalimantan.”

The Singapore-based Asean Specialised Meteorological Centre recorded 198 hotspots in Borneo as of Thursday, with the majority located in West Kalimantan. There were four hotspots in Sumatra and none recorded in Peninsular Malaysia.

On the homefront, Wan Junaidi said the Department of Environment had recorded 2,230 incidents of open burning nationwide between January and this month.

He said the department had issued 207 compound fines and 50 warning letters to those responsible for open burning. Fifteen cases are pending in courts.

“There were 48 cases at construction sites, 68 at landfills, 15 (industrial sites) and 578 related to agriculture, while forests, swamps and other fires accounted for the rest,” he said.

As of 4pm yesterday the Air Pollution Index (API) in most cities across the country were “moderate’’. Cheras had the unhealthiest reading at 97 followed by Ipoh (90) and Batu Muda, Kuala Lumpur (72) and Port Klang (70).

Air quality in Sabah and Sarawak was relatively healthy with the highest readings being recorded in Sibu (53) and Kota Kinabalu (52).

The department classifies readings of zero to 50 as healthy, 51 to 100 (moderate), 101 to 200 (unhealthy), 201 to 300 (very unhealthy) and 301 and above (hazardous).