http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/army-jammu-and-kashmir-terrorists-edi-building/1/784567.html
129
12
Highlights 1 Army has said that it will not rush in to the building and play a waiting game.

2 Security agencies say the encounter is likely to stretch for a long time.

3 Explosions are being heard regularly from within the building after the army cordoned it off.

With militants taking position inside sprawling Entrepreneur Development Institute (EDI) building at Pampore, on the outskirts of Srinagar, security agencies say the encounter is likely to stretch for long.

"We are not rushing in. There is no hurry," said a senior security official requesting anonymity.. This is the second time since February this year that the militants have entered the EDI campus.

MILITANTS FIRING FROM INSIDE

Since Monday morning, explosions are being heard regularly from within and around the building after the army cordoned it off. An army soldier was injured in the initial firing. Unlike February, the security official said, this time they would not rush in the hostel building. According to officials, the militants might have entered the building from a rear side after crossing river Jhelum by a boat. They said the militants lit a fire in one of the rooms of the top floor of the building early Monday morning, making the guards, who were in an adjacent building, to call a fire tender. However, the fire tender was fired upon by the militants.

Later, when the army cordoned off the building, they were fired upon from inside, injuring an army jawan. During the day-long gun fight, the militants hiding inside the building kept on changing their positions. "The operation is still on," said Srinagar based defence spokesman, Colonel Rajesh Kalia. Officials say they have no clarity whether the militants entered the building on Sunday evening or Monday morning. The Army is also refusing to divulge the details about the number of the militants who are inside the building.

ALSO READ:

Pampore operation: Terrorists cornered in govt building, structure ablaze, 1 soldier injured

How India's surgical strikes created a rift between Lashkar terrorists, Pakistan army



