http://thenationonlineng.net/nddc-jobs-senate-screens-ndoma-egba-ekere-others/
120
12
•We’ll take stock of agency’s finances, says Ndoma- Egba

•Izunaso declines nomination

The Senate yesterday began the screening of nominees into the board of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC).

Those screened are nominees for executive directors and state representatives of the Federal Government intervention agency.

Former Senate Leader Victor Ndoma-Egba, who was nominated by President Muhammadu Buhari as NDDC’s Chairman, was asked to take a bow and go.

The Chairman of Senate Committee on NDDC, Peter Nwaoboshi, who chaired the screening, assured that the committee would not compromise its assignment.

The senator said the committee made the screening open for all Nigerians to see.

He said: “We have made the screening open; we don’t want to hide anything. We want Nigerians to see everything. Some said we have been compromised, but we have the backing of the leadership of the Senate not to bend the rules and we are not ready to bend the rules.”

Addressing reporters after the screening, Ndoma-Egba said the new board, when constituted, would take stock of NDDC’s projects, systems and finances to enable the new board start on a clean slate.

The former Senate Leader promised to do things right, with a new narrative for Niger Delta, when the board is inaugurated.

He said: “We promise a new narrative for the Niger Delta region. The commission was set up for Niger Delta and it must return to the regional body.

“We will take stock of our projects, systems, processes and finances to know which projects are viable. We need to clean our books and start on a new slate. We will do things right when we get there.”

The Senate committee chairman read a letter from one of the nominees, Senator Osita Izunaso, who declined his nomination because he is not from oil-producing area of Imo State.

Izunaso, who is also the Organising Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), thanked President Buhari for his nomination but implored him to appoint another person from oil-producing area of the state.

The Senate, on last Wednesday, referred the nominees to the Nwaoboshi-led Committee on Niger Delta for screening and confirmation.

The resolution of the Senate followed an Executive Communication by Senate Leader Ali Ndume “that the Senate do consider the request of the President and Commander-in-Chief on the confirmation of the following persons as chairman and members of the NDDC, in accordance with Section 2(2) of the NDDC Act, 2000.”

Also referred to the Niger Delta Committee are: Nsima Ekere (Akwa Ibom), as Managing Director; Adjogbe Samuel (Delta), Executive Director (Project); Mene Derek (Rivers), Executive Director (Finance and Administration).

Proposed members are: Donatus Enyinnah (Abia); Frank George (Akwa Ibom), Prof. Brambaifa Nelson (Bayelsa), Sylvester Nsa (Cross River) and Dr Ogaga Ifowodo (Delta).

Other nominees are: Uwuilekhue Saturday (Edo); Osita Izunaso (Imo); Olatokunbo Ajasin (Ondo); Harry Dabibi (Rivers); Bernard Banfa (North Central) and Yahaya Mohammed (North-East).

Also nominated were Mustapha Dankadi (North-West), Igo Weli (Niger); Dr Mahmoud Isa-Dutse, Federal Ministry of Finance and Abdul-Kazeem Bayero, Ministry of Environment.