http://www.politico.com/story/2016/10/obamacare-birth-control-mandate-employers-229627
120
12
While faith groups directly involved in ministry are automatically exempt from Obamacare's birth control mandate, religiously affiliated nonprofits have to seek accommodation. | Getty Two years later, few Hobby Lobby copycats emerge

Obamacare supporters warned two years ago that if the Supreme Court allowed the owners of Hobby Lobby craft stores to eliminate birth control coverage because of their religious beliefs, others would rush to follow — and not just to eliminate contraceptives, but also, potentially, treatments like blood transfusions and vaccines.

Those fears haven’t been borne out.

Story Continued Below

Since the 2014 high court ruling in favor of Hobby Lobby, only 52 companies or nonprofit organizations, have told the government they plan to opt out of Obamacare’s requirement to cover birth control because it violates their religious beliefs, according to a POLITICO review of Obama administration records obtained under the Freedom of Information Act.

That’s in addition to the employers who filed about 100 lawsuits against the contraception mandate, as well as an unknown number of employers that may have directly informed their insurer, instead of the government, of their religious objections — a tack taken, for example, by Georgetown University, a Catholic institution that offers insurance to students and employees. Telling the government or one's insurer that the mandate violates one's religious beliefs sets in motion the court-ordered accommodation that requires the insurer to provide and pay for such coverage directly.

Several insurance industry sources say they haven’t gotten many such requests.

The anticlimactic response is noteworthy given the polarizing reaction to the Obamacare requirement that most employers provide contraception in their health plans at no additional cost. That provision is one of the most controversial elements of President Barack Obama’s health care law — one that even now, in the administration’s closing days, is still not fully resolved.

“If that is anywhere close to the universe of entities [that object to the contraception mandate], that it is a little surprising,” said Tim Jost, a legal expert on the health law and a member of the Institute of Medicine.

Religious groups, led by Catholic bishops, accused the White House of hijacking health insurance plans to issue birth control that some Christians object to on religious grounds — or risk severe fines. While faith groups directly involved in ministry (such as houses of worship) are automatically exempt from the health law's requirement, religiously affiliated nonprofits (such as hospitals, universities and charities) have to seek accommodation, as do for-profit businesses whose owners oppose contraception on religious grounds. Public health advocates argue birth control is a necessary part of a woman's health care that should not be denied just because she works for an employer with strong religious views.

Underscoring just how high-pressure the debate was within the White House — even some Democratic allies balked at the first rules — Obama in 2012 personally announced an “accommodation.”

The policy was modified several times and now allows a Catholic university or other religious nonprofit to inform the government, its insurer or insurance administrator that it objects to birth control coverage. The insurer must then contact the women covered by the plan and offer to provide and pay for contraceptive coverage without involving the employer. That accommodation was extended to closely held for-profit businesses after the Hobby Lobby ruling in 2014.

Laurie Sobel, a senior policy analyst at the nonpartisan Kaiser Family Foundation, said her focus is on the number of women who work for employers that don’t want to provide contraception — not the number of employers.

“What everyone wants to know is how many employees are affected,” she said, citing “large universities and large nonprofit Catholic health care systems or hospitals” that employ thousands of women.

Catholic hospital chain Ascension Health, one employer using the accommodation, for instance, is the largest nonprofit health system in the country with 160,000 employees — tens of thousands of whom would likely be affected.

POLITICO obtained the accommodation notices filed by employers between 2014 and March.

Some of those opting out — such as J.E. Dunn Construction Group in Kansas City, Mo., or Loyola University in New Orleans — employ thousands of people, and presumably cover many more as spouses or dependents.

Others, such as Luurtsema Sales, a wholesale plant supplier in Michigan, and Earth Sun Moon Trading Co., a nature-inspired clothing company in Pennsylvania, appear to have far fewer employees. Thirty of the entities are nonprofits and 22 are for-profits. It is unknown how many women work for or have insurance coverage through the companies using the accommodation.

About half of the companies and schools objected to covering all forms of contraception. The other half objected to covering a particular approach — most often, to methods they equate to abortion, such as emergency contraception, including the morning-after pill, and certain intrauterine devices.

A few employers said they notified the government in protest to avoid risking the fines that come with not covering contraception.

“This letter is submitted under protest, as we don’t believe we need an ‘accommodation’ in order to operate freely,” Tyndale House Publishers, which publishes Christian books and Bibles, wrote at the top of its notice to HHS.

Tyndale and 14 other entities that filed lawsuits against the mandate — mostly for-profit companies — also informed the government of the objection. The Supreme Court told the government that it can count a lawsuit as a notification of a religious objection and try to contact the insurer to provide contraception directly.

Insurers say they don’t track the number of employers that use the accommodation by notifying them directly instead of the government. Two major insurance administration trade groups say they are aware of few, if any, administrators with clients that want to use the accommodation.

“I am not aware of any at this moment,” said Julian Roberts, president and CEO of the Third Party Administrators Association of America, echoing similar comments from Fred Hunt, past president of the Society of Professional Benefit Administrators, in a separate interview.

The third-party administrators say that in many states, the accommodation won’t even work for their clients because the administrators legally cannot act like an insurer to provide contraception coverage. They have warned the Obama administration that the accommodation may have to be changed as a result.

In one case, the accommodation may have expanded access to contraception. A group of 160 churches and religious organizations in the St. Raphael Health Plan, which is associated with the Catholic Archdiocese of Milwaukee, chose to use the accommodation. The Obama administration in a letter told the administrator that churches are exempt from the mandate to cover contraceptives, but the churches said they would comply with it anyway.

Jerry Topczewski, chief of staff for the archdiocese, told POLITICO that the health plan is confident that it was not exempt and that it would have been fined had it not taken the accommodation. “We wouldn’t be doing this if we didn’t feel it was necessary,” he said.

Several other religious non-profits filed for the accommodation, as well, including St. Joseph’s Abbey, a community of monks in Massachusetts, and the Catholic Diocese of Memphis.

Mark Rienzi, a Becket Fund attorney who has represented several clients opposed to the mandate and accommodation, including the Little Sisters of the Poor order of Catholic nuns, said the number of employers that want to opt out is tiny, compared with employers whose health plans are grandfathered so they don’t have to comply with the contraceptive provision until their health plans change.

"That number is tiny compared to the 100 million people the government itself left out of the mandate for political reasons,” Rienzi said, referring to the employers who had health plans in effect when the law passed in 2010, who don't need to comply with some requirements until they change their plans significantly. “The government's obsession with a molehill they can blame on the Little Sisters of the Poor, rather than the mountains of their own creation, is mystifying.”

Advocates of the birth control coverage requirement argue that if even one woman is barred from coverage because of her employer's religious views, that's too many.

“Any woman in these plans who is being impacted and not having her birth control covered is important,” said Mara Gandal-Powers, senior counsel at the National Women’s Law Center, which advocated for the policy in court briefs. “It’s an act of discrimination based on her sex.”

Most for-profit companies appear to have grudgingly accepted the accommodation offered by the Obama administration but the religious nonprofits say that it still requires them to violate their religious beliefs. They call the form they must fill out “a permission slip” to provide contraception.

The Supreme Court earlier this year, in Zubik v. Burwell, ordered the government and religious groups to try to come up with a potentially new or further modified accommodation.

The case was sent back to lower courts to potentially sort out a compromise. The government asked for comments on the issue this summer and asked the courts if it could have until Nov. 30 before providing a new update.