http://m.gulfnews.com/news/europe/afghan-migrants-stranded-in-the-balkans-resist-going-home-1.1909491
233
2
Some migrants in Belgrade, the Serbian capital, said they are not safe in Afghanistan and have no way to finish schools, find jobs or earn money. The young men — who stand little chance of being granted asylum in EU countries — pleaded with EU nations to let them in so they can have a hope of a better future.

“Life in Afghanistan is too hard for us, we can’t live there,” said 15-year-old Sulaiman Zazai. “That is why we go to live in Germany, for a good life, for our future.” Saifullah Zamiri, 18, added that “we struggle a lot in these bad conditions and with closed borders.” “We can’t go back,” Zamiri insisted. “Our government can’t control a bad situation, so why do you want us to go back to our country?” Germany and other EU nations have sought to limit the influx of refugees and migrants after taking in more than one million people last year. The German government says the joint declaration with Afghanistan will provide a “clear and reliable basis” for both voluntary returns and deportations. IRC’s Sudbery blasted as “most damning” the clause that envisages that unaccompanied minors could be returned if “adequate reception and care-taking arrangements” are put in place in Afghanistan. “It is unclear how the EU will measure or verify this,” she said. Rados Djurovic, from Serbia’s Asylum Protection Center, said asylum seekers from Afghanistan must not be automatically rejected but reviewed individually, considering that parts of the country are still dangerous. “Each application should be taken most seriously,” he said. Afghans account for about one half of more than 6,000 migrants who have piled up in Serbia after EU neighbor Hungary introduced strict limits on asylum-seekers and reinforced the border with a razor-wire fence and heavy patrols. On Tuesday, several hundred men set off on a protest march toward Hungary, demanding that authorities there open the border. Tired and cold, the marchers gave up the next morning after walking 40 kilometres and spending the night out in the open. On Friday, Serbian authorities discovered two Afghan boys, aged 12 and 16, hiding in a truck heading toward EU member Croatia. In Belgrade, a park close to the railway and bus stations where migrants from Afghanistan spend their days and nights is now dubbed “Afghan park.” On a sunny day last week, some migrants were sleeping on the benches wrapped in blankets at the park. A man was helping his friend shave without a mirror on the park’s water pipes. A woman was washing clothes and hanging them on a rope spread between two poles.









