http://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/3479305/posts
1241
12
Skip to comments.

TRUMP HAS CAUSED MORE EXCITEMENT THAN THE J.F.K. CAMPAIGN

Posted on by cradle of freedom

I was 13 years old in 1960 when JFK ran for President. I remember much of that time even a visit by JFK and Jackie to our town. I live in Massachusetts so I was at the center of Kennedy country. But even the excitement of the 1960 campaign pales when compared to the excitement of the Trump campaign. Kennedy didn't pack huge auditoriums with 10 or 20 thousand people everywhere he went. There is a name for what Trump is doing--it is a PHENOMINUM!



TOPICS:

News/Current Events

Your Opinion/Questions

KEYWORDS:

2016issues

enthusiasmgap

kennedy

trump





To: cradle of freedom

Imagine all this worrying about the video is for nothing? TRUMP is sooooooooo strong he has alreadt won in a LANDSLIDE! LOL Yea, I know wishful thinking....



To: cradle of freedom

Well I would love Trump to introduce Bill Clinton to the son he’s never met at the next debates and say this what the Clintons think about children, to abandon them in poverty when his father could easily have raised him in luxury. Then ask Hillary if Danny can come to Thanksgiving dinner at their house.



by 3 posted onby Sybeck1 (Remember that time the holier than nows caused the loss our 2nd ammendment?)

To: cradle of freedom

When JFK was president, his wife was the darling of the media. She was framed in glorious terms. Why it was Camelot. The two of them were so stately. He was a philandering rogue, and she was a nice enough person but couldn’t talk her way out of a paper bag. At one point they decided it would increase her stature if they had her tour part of the White House on video. She did. It didn’t. Here was this woman clearly fumbling all over herself at a loss for words, seeming nervous, uncomfortable, and not nearly absolute royalty they played her up to be. When Kennedy traveled to Europe, they built her up like she was royalty. The polished folks over there must have chuckled at our pretenses. Melania has a few interviews on the net. She is very polished. She makes Jackie look like a 14 year old school girl by comparison. She is a thinker and represents herself well. She will represent the nation well. She will be mindful of her station and do the appropriate things, IMO. In all fairness Jackie didn’t grow up in the age of video. It was all rather new and there were reasons to be nervous. I’m not a big detractor of her, because overall in her post White House life, she kept quiet, did her own thing and didn’t try to sway public opinion on matters. I respected that.



by 4 posted onby DoughtyOne (28 days: Until Presdient Pre-elect becomes President Elect Donald J. Trump. Help is on the way!)

To: Sybeck1

At the inauguration(hopefully) Trump can invite the young man to be on stage with his newly adopted family-the Trumps. Since all former Presidents show up as a matter of protocol how can Billy Jeff avoid this fella, even if he’s NOT his kid? The 4 women? Bring them along with-god willing-Monica!



by 5 posted onby DIRTYSECRET (urope. Why do they put up with this.)

To: DIRTYSECRET

Wouldn’t you love to see some women (or even men) dressed as Monica Lewinski showing up at Hillary Clinton events. Alex Jones here is your next stunt. :^D



To: Sybeck1

Then ask Hillary if Danny can come to Thanksgiving dinner at their house. Re> She would do to him what she did to Chelsea's dad.



To: cradle of freedom

Not a good comparison: Mayor Daley threw the 1960 presidential election for John Kennedy with massive ballot stuffing in Chicago. This type of voter fraud, stated Locker, “was an accepted way of life in Chicago . . .

http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2008/04/where-theres-smoke-theres-fire-100000-stolen-votes-in-chicago



by 8 posted onby donna (No one should be allowed to become a citizen or even a resident if they support Sharia Law.)

To: cradle of freedom

Of course, JFK won in a squeaker AFTER the vote fraud in Chicago and Texas.



To: cradle of freedom

Voting for Trump is the least demanding way to join a revolution. It’s a chance that will not come again. If you miss this one, the nation dies.



To: Sybeck1

Oooohhh, that’s a good one.



To: DIRTYSECRET

Get Betsey Wright to flip and put her in the front row on the Trump side. There aren’t enough Depends in Vegas to handle what would happen in Hillary’s nether regions.



To: donna

And Nixon had the good sense not too put the Country through Hell and Al Gore (and by extension the supposed wise of sage of the Senate, and his running mate, Joe Liberman didn't tell Al not too) didn't.



by 13 posted onby taildragger (Not my Monkey, not my Circus...)

To: donna

Daley didn’t just use fraud; he also had the best organized political machine in the country. Huge Chicago majorities voted Democrat because - in those days - the precinct captain and ward committeeman responded to their needs. Chicago was “the city that works.” Plus, they still had that old Latin standby: “Hobo, Floto, Voto” (using transients/bums/homeless folks to vote at multiple precincts).



To: donna

Mayor Daley threw the 1960 presidential election for John Kennedy with massive ballot stuffing in Chicago I don't doubt that there was massive fraud in Chicago for that election that year but I wish that we could toss the old canard that, it "threw the election to Kennedy". It did not. Even giving the Illinois' 27 electoral votes to Nixon, Kennedy still wins the presidency. The totals for the candidates were, Kennedy 303, Nixon 219. If Illinois had gone to Nixon the score would have been, Kennedy 276, Nixon 246.



by 15 posted onby Graybeard58 (Bill and Hillary Clinton are the penicillin-resistant syphilis of our political system.)

To: cradle of freedom

They say it’s better to have bad publicity than no publicity. In that case Trump is doing good.



by 16 posted onby Bellflower (Dems = Mat 6:23 ....If therefore the light that is in thee be darkness, how great is that darkness!)

To: KavMan

Meghan Kelly is still talking about. She had Ben Cason on and she tried to lure him into the LaBrea tar pits. They can’t get Trump to grovel so they use his surrogates such as Eric Trump and Dr. Carson. It is time to tell everybody surrounding Trump to call an end to this. No more talk about the tapes.



Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works.

FreeRepublic , LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794

FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson