http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/donald-trumps-10-worst-sexist-9013070
20
2
Dozens of senior Republicans have withdrawn their support for Donald Trump after a tape emerged of him bragging about groping and kissing women.

The surprise is it has taken his colleagues to wake up to the Presidential contender’s lewd and dismissive attitude towards women. Not to mention his casual racism and xenophobia.

The media mogul has a long history of making crude, sexist and boorish comments about women, including members of his own family.

Here are some of the worst incidents of his behaviour:

1 His own daughter Ivanka

Getty Donald Trump walks on stage after his daughter, Ivanka

In a 2004 interview with shock jock Howard Stern he agreed that his daughter Ivanka Trump, then aged 22, was ‘“a piece of a**.”

He also told Stern he “couldn’t care less” if he satisfies the women he sleeps with and bragged about losing his virginity to a “hot little girl” when he was 14 years-old.

2 Ivanka (again)

Video loading Watch next Watch this video again Watch Next Click to play Tap to play The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

Trump also made an very off-colour ‘joke’ about Ivanka in another interview.

According to ABC News, the billionaire said in March 2006: “If Ivanka weren’t my daughter, perhaps I’d be dating her.”

A spokesman later said it was a “joke”.

3 Young and beautiful women

Reuters Republican U.S. presidential candidate Donald Trump gestures at his wife Melania

It is not just his daughter he describes that way.

In an interview for Esquire magazine in 1991, he said: “You know, it doesn’t really matter what (the media) write as long as you’ve got a young and beautiful piece of ass. But she’s got to be young and beautiful.”

4 On breastfeeding

Getty Images He's not a fan of breastfeeding

He told a breastfeeding mother she was “disgusting.”

The insult was made at a female lawyer who asked for a break so she could pump breast milk for her baby daughter.

5 Journalist Gail Collins

FilmMagic Donald Trump poses with Hooters Girls at the Donald Trump's Ultimate Deal Cash Giveaway at the Trump Marina Hotel and Casino

Many of his insults are hurled at female journalists. When New York Times columnist Gail Collins wrote his financial affairs, he sent her a copy of the article with her picture circled and words “the face of a dog!” written next to it.

6 Journalist Megyn Kelly

Donald Trump and Megyn Kelly

A frequent target of Trump’s sexism is the US journalist Megyn Kelly who hosted the first debate of the Republican presidential candidates.

After the debate Trump called her a “bimbo” on Twitter.

He later implied her tough line of questioning was because she was on her period.

“You could see there was blood coming out of her eyes. Blood coming out of her wherever,” he said.

He has variously called Ms Keely “really weird, “crazy,” “the most overrated anchor,” “very bad at math,” “dopey,” “so average in every way”“Never worth watching”“sick”“the most overrated person on TV,” “Highly overrated” and a “lightweight.”

7 Fellow Republican Carly Fiorina

Getty Trump has insulted Republican Carly Fiorina

Trump has also insulted his fellow Republicans, including former presidential candidate Carly Fiorina.

In September 2015 he said to Fiorina, the ex head of Hewlett-Packard, : “Look at that face. Would anyone vote for that?

“Can you imagine that, the face of our next next president? I mean, she’s a woman, and I’m not supposed to say bad things, but really, folks, come on. Are we serious?”

8 Former Miss Universe Alicia Machado

Getty Alicia Machado has come in for some criticism

In September this year Trump turned on the former Miss Universe winner and Venezuelan actress Alicia Machado after she was name checked by Hillary Clinton in the first Presidential TV debate.

Miss Machado has claimed Mr Trump called her “Miss Piggy” and “Miss Housekeeping”.

Instead of apologising, he said Ms Machado had put on weight. “She was the winner and she gained a massive amount of weight, and it was real problem for us,” he said.

He then alleged on Twitter she had starred in a sex tape, though there is no evidence this is the case.

9 Ghazala Khan, mother of Iraq war hero Humayan

Ghazala Khan and Donald Trump

Trump has a nasty habit of attacking women who cross him politically.

When Ghazala Khan, the mother of Humayan Khan who died in the Iraq War, stood next to her husband when he criticised Trump at the Democrat National Convention, Trump managed to combine racism with sexism.

“Look at his wife, she was standing there. She had nothing to say. She probably, maybe she wasn’t allowed to have anything to say. You tell me,” he said.

10 Racism

Video loading Watch next Watch this video again Watch Next Click to play Tap to play The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

It is not just women that Trump insults. In the last year he has labelled Mexicans as “rapists,” mocked a reporter with a disability and called for a ban on Muslims entering the US and a national database of all Muslims.