http://classic.iol.co.za/news/crime-courts/krejcir-s-girlfriend-bails-back-to-luxury-1.2072295
120
12
FACEBOOK Playboy bunny Marissa Christopher was arrested after allegedly trying to orchestrate the escape of Czech fugutive Radovan Krejcir.

Johannesburg - Radovan Krejcir’s former girlfriend and ex-Playboy bunny, Marissa Christopher, has been released on bail following a high court application.

Christopher was arrested in July while visiting Krejcir with their two-year-old daughter at Zonderwater prison in Cullinan, Tshwane.

The State alleged that Christopher was going to facilitate payments to prison officials and a group of rifle-wielding gunmen to storm the prison and allow Krejcir to escape.

However, while the plot was initially planned for March, an undercover police unit in which officers posed as the guns-for-hire stopped the violent escape plan and arrested five suspects, including Christopher.

At the beginning of last month, Christopher was denied bail in the Kempton Park Magistrate’s Court.

Christopher, in a bizarre move, chose to take the stand during the application and denied any knowledge of the escape plan and admitted she and Krejcir had recently broken up.

The magistrate said she believed Christopher was deceitful, and that her attempts to disassociate herself from Krejcir before the court case were highly suspicious, noting how she had been the one to sign off on picking up Krejcir’s gym equipment at another prison, where investigators had found a gun inside a hidden compartment.

She chastised Christopher for not being transparent and candid with the court, trying to downplay her multiple passports and her relationship with the Czech fugitive.

But yesterday, Christopher launched another bail application at the high court sitting at Palm Ridge, appealing the magistrate's ruling.

Judge Gibson Ngobeni was willing to allow Christopher bail of R10 000, but placed her freedom under strict conditions.

Meanwhile, although police spokespersons have claimed on record that there have been numerous plots by the Czech fugitive to escape from prison, he has been criminally charged only for the most recent plan.

Saturday Star

IOL on Twitter

IOL News on Facebook

Get our free IOL newsletters - subscribe here...

Related Stories