http://www.philstar.com/headlines/2016/08/21/1615703/sara-fumes-pregnancy-announcement-not-pr-lolo
120
12
DAVAO CITY, Philippines – Mayor Sara Duterte-Carpio did not hide her anger yesterday at the country’s leading forensic pathologist Raquel Fortun for tweeting that the announcement of the mayor’s pregnancy was apparently a PR stunt for her father, President Duterte.

Fortun @Doc4Dead, wrote on Twitter early yesterday, “Too early to rejoice over 7weeker lalo na triplets. Wait for delivery and spare oneself from heartache. PR for Lolo?,” in an obvious reference to Duterte-Carpio’s announcement Friday about her being pregnant with not just one but three babies.

But the mayor, who does not back down from a fight, did not take it lightly and also took to social media and shot back at Fortun.

“Ah yes PR pero bago ka mag tweet basahin mo muna yung PR ng hindi ka magmukhang dugyot na ampalaya (before you tweet, read first the PR so you won’t look like a dirty bitter gourd). And when I do get the heartache, it will still be a media blitz, and when we defy the odds it will be a PR fiesta and you will still be Miss Bittermelon,” the mayor said in her Facebook page.

The mayor pointed out that the announcement of her pregnancy was to explain to over 1.6 million residents of Davao City why she could not attend important events such as yesterday’s Indak-Indak sa Kadalanan street dancing as part of this year’s Kadayawan sa Dabaw festival.

“Please take note that public officials need to explain their absence in important events,” she said.

Headlines ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1

The mayor is still on leave as she has been advised by doctors to take extra care given her “multifetal pregnancy.”

Duterte-Carpio also was not able to attend her father’s State of the Nation Address (SONA) on July 25 as she was advised by her doctors to rest.

The mayor pointed out that Fortun apparently does not like the President, that was why she was saying it was too early too rejoice over a seven-week pregnancy.

“Problema sa imuha Miss kay di ka ganahan sa Lolo manunglo ka sa mga gisabak, 3 baya ni, buot pasabot ang gaba ani katulohon pud (The problem with you Miss is that you do not like the grandfather that is why you ‘curse’ what I am carrying in my womb. I have three, that is why it also means that the bad luck that gets back at you would also be three-fold),” the mayor said.

Duterte-Carpio also advised Fortun to mind her own business instead of criticizing others.

“Turn off your Twitter, do your work, mind your own business and spare yourself the heartache,” the mayor said.

Fortun is recognized as the country’s first forensic pathologist and one of the two forensic pathologists in the country, having chosen to remain in the Philippines to promote this field, once unheard of in the country.

Fortun is said to have handled a variety of cases that demanded her expertise, including the Ozone Disco case, the Dacer-Corito case, the Asian Spirit tragedy, Trina Etong (Ted Failon’s wife)’s death and the Maguindanao massacre.

The mayor, on the other hand, is known for punching a court sheriff who refused her request to defer the demolition of an informal settlers’ area in Barangay Soliman as she had to attend to the victims of the flood that hit Matina area in 2011.

Later yesterday, Fortun posted, “Came frm work havent read everything on my TL yet. I never doubted ur pregnancy Mayor Duterte I do wish you well. Had 2 miscarriages myself.”