http://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-3826885/The-Bachelor-s-Olena-Khamula-debuts-new-boyfriend-Rodney-Maroun.html
120
12
She was spotted cosying up to a mystery man in Bondi last month, after leaving The Bachelor unscathed by Richie Strahan's rejection.

And now Olena Khamula has made her public debut with boyfriend Rodney Maroun at a beauty launch in Surry Hills, Sydney.

The couple put on an affectionate display at the the Revlon x Chloe Morello Contour Kit Launch at the Dolphin Hotel on Friday.

Scroll down for video

Debut! Bachelor's Olena Khamula has made her first public appearance with boyfriend Rodney Maroun at a beauty launch at the Dolphin Hotel in Surry Hills, Sydney on Friday

Olena, 24, displayed her natural beauty with minimal make-up and styled her hair in a simple yet chic updo

The Ukrainian model offered a glimpse of décolletage in a plunging black dress with shoulder cut-out detailing.

She paired the outfit with several accessories, including a thin necklace, earrings and a white clutch.

Rodney appeared to be smitten with his new girlfriend as he affectionately wrapped his arms around her slim waist.

Three's a crowd? The couple were joined at the Revlon x Chloe Morello Contour Kit Launch by The Bachelor 'villain' Keira Maguire (L)

Loved up! Olena displayed her natural beauty with minimal make-up and styled her hair in a simple yet chic updo, while Rodney looked dapper in a navy suit with a crisp white shirt

Making a good impression! Keira enjoyed a friendly conversation with Rodney, which suggests she approves of her former co-star's handsome new boyfriend

Rodney, a builder, looked dapper in a navy suit with a crisp white shirt and a pair of smart brown shoes.

They were joined at the exclusive event by The Bachelor 'villain' Keira Maguire.

The 29-year-old looked glamourous in a dusty pink dress which she paired with beige Valentino heels

She opted for a nude lip with lashings of mascara and wore her blonde hair in her signature Lara Bingle style.

No hard feelings! Keira and Olena appeared as friendly as ever at the exclusive Revlon event, despite being former rivals on The Bachelor

Pink minx: Keira, dubbed The Bachelor's series 'villain', displayed her devilishly good style in a dusty pink dress and beige heels, while Olena went for a plunging black dress

She clearly approves! Olena looked happy that Keira was getting along with her boyfriend

Meanwhile, Olena was photographed kissing Rodney during a romantic date at Ravesi's hotel in Bondi last month.

She looked blissfully happy as Rodney touched her face and whispered into her ear before gently kissing her on the lips and hands.

Olena previously told The Sydney Morning Herald she worried about being 'single forever' because of her overprotective father.

Andriy Khamula, a former boxer, was a hit with Bachelor fans after he grilled Richie Strahan during home town week.