http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3750325/Sorry-t-let-honeymoon-Amazing-pictures-17-prisoners-tough-Colombian-jail-hitched-mass-wedding-bars.html
120
12
A notorious high-security prison in Colombia allowed 17 of its inmates to get married yesterday to their long-term girlfriends.

The mass ceremony at the Carcel Villa Hermosa prison in Cali, Colombia saw the happy couples sign up to spend the rest of their lives together, once their husbands have completed their jail terms.

The 17 brides, all dressed in white, entered the prison and made their way through a series of barred gates before entering a large hall in the prison.

The 17 brides were escorted into a common area in the centre of the prison where the ceremonies took place

Social workers believe the jail weddings will help the men to make the right decisions when they are released

One of the inmates had been planning to get married in April, but suddenly became indisposed after his conviction

One of the inmates who married his bride in the prison was confined to a wheelchair

The jail, which is among the most notorious in Colombia is in the troubled north western city of Cali.

One of the inmates Oscar Ivan Henao, 39, had planned to get married to Magda Gonzalez, 31, after she fell pregnant. The couple were ready for the ceremony in April until Henao became suddenly and unexpectedly indisposed after being convicted of 'attempted extortion'.

He was jailed for 18 months for his crime. So, when he got married on Friday, it was also his first chance to meet his 16-day-old son.

Now he hopes prison authorities will allow him to complete the remainder of his sentence under house arrest, enabling him to spend time with his infant son.

The marriage event is part of social work in the jail. Prison authorities hope that by getting married, the men will be able to reintegrate into society.

The jail itself is horribly overcroded with more than 6,200 crammed into a space designed for 1,500.

Families of the criminals and their new wives were invited into the prison for the unusual ceremony

Unfortunately for the inmates and their new wives, there was not enough time to consummate their new marriages

However, it is understood that the men and women will be entitled to a conjugal visit within the next two weeks

Some of the men hope their new wedded bliss will entitle them to an earlier release date

The jail has about 6,500 inmates, far in excess of its of the maximum capacity of 1,500