http://www.dailymail.co.uk/wires/ap/article-3833043/Passenger-lost-end-finger-train-crash-plans-sue.html
124
12
A man who lost part of a finger and suffered facial injuries in the deadly Hoboken train crash is planning to sue.

Lawyers for Sheldon Kest announced the planned lawsuit against New Jersey Transit during a news conference in Newark on Tuesday.

The 66-year-old Tenafly man was a passenger in the front car of the train that crashed into Hoboken Terminal on September 29 killing one person and injuring dozens of others.

Scroll down for video

assenger Sheldon Kest, 66, plans to due New Jersey Transit after he lost a finger and scraped his face in the crash

Kest was among those hurt in crash, losing part of his finger and suffering a broken nose and lacerations to his head and face

Kest was among those hurt in crash, losing part of his finger and suffering a broken nose and lacerations to his head and face.

'I'm so fortunate to be here and to hopefully, through the legal system, help prevent another senseless, deadly New Jersey Transit crash,' Kest said.

'I need to know: Why did it happen? How did it happen? And who should be held accountable so it never happens again?'

Rail services resumed Monday at a New Jersey transit station damaged less than two weeks ago after a train traveling at more than twice the speed limit crashed, killing a woman on the platform and injuring more than 100.

Eight of the 17 tracks at Hoboken Terminal reopened Monday morning, according to New Jersey Transit.

Damage done to the Hoboken Terminal in Hoboken, New Jersey after a commuter train crash is seen on October 1

The New Jersey Transit train involved in the deadly crash (pictured) was moved on the track out of Hoboken Terminal on Thursday

Tracks 10 to 17 reopened, while tracks 1 to 9 will remain out of service until further notice as repair work continues in that section of the busy station, where commuters connect with other trains and with ferries heading into New York City.

Investigators say the engineer was traveling more than double the 10 mph speed limit just before the crash. The crash killed one woman standing on the platform and injured more than 100 other people.

The preliminary filing doesn't say what Kest is seeking. Tort claims are filed against public agencies in New Jersey to give them a chance to settle the case before a lawsuit is filed.

One of Kest's attorneys, Andrew Duffy, said they don't expect New Jersey to resolve the claim and expect to file suit.

Sheldon Kest, left, of Tenafly, N.J., sits with his wife, Lynda Kest, center, as he points to an image showing him near the side of the New Jersey Transit fatal train crash at the Hoboken Terminal, as he announcing his lawsuit

The 66-year-old Tenafly man was a passenger in the front car of the train that crashed into Hoboken Terminal on September 29 killing one person and injuring dozens of others

An NJ Transit spokeswoman declined to comment. At least three other victims have also filed claims this month against the transit agency.

With the resumption of service, a new rule will require that the conductor join the engineer whenever a train pulls into the terminal. That means a second set of eyes will be watching as a train enters the final phase of its trip at stations where there are platforms at the end of the rails.

The engineer in the crash was alone at the time. He has told federal investigators he has no memory of the crash.

The return of partial service into Hoboken Terminal was welcomed by commuters in River Edge, about 12 miles north of Hoboken - even if some had still-painful memories of the crash.

Sheilah Tiangco-Hugo had been in the first car that day and remembered being jolted out of her seat when the train sped up as it approached the track's end.

Investigators (pictured) have obtained the second black box from the crash

Tracks 10 to 17 reopened, while tracks 1 to 9 will remain out of service until further notice as repair work continues in that section of the busy station

She braced for impact on the floor and watched as a concrete slab crashed down on the seat she had occupied moments earlier.

'That slab could have cut me in half,' Tiangco-Hugo said as she waited for the train with several other people Monday morning. 'I started praying, and saying, "Is this really happening?"'

Her back still hurts from the crash, Tiangco-Hugo said. But it didn't stop her from boarding Monday's 8.11am train for Hoboken.