http://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/australia/melissa-georges-partner-jean-david-blanc-faces-paris-court-over-domestic-assault-charges/ar-AAjcAei
120
12
© Cindy Ord/Getty Images for Gabrielle's Angel Foundation Jean David Blanc (L) and actress Melissa George. Melissa George was seen leaving a Paris courthouse on Thursday after her partner Jean-David Blanc appeared on charges of domestic assault against the Australian actress.



According to French newspaper La Parisien, the father of Melissa's two sons denied claims he assaulted her in their Paris apartment last month.

The 40-year-old actress struck a solemn figure as she emerged from court with friends by her side, as her partner of four years left the court separately.

The domestic assault case has been remanded until February 2017.

© AP Photo/Joel Ryan French news outlets previously reported that Melissa was taken to Cochin hospital around 3am on Wednesday, September 7, following the alleged assault. French news outlets previously reported that Melissa was taken to Cochin hospital around 3am on Wednesday, September 7, following the alleged assault.

"According to statements by the actress...she was assaulted by her companion, also father of their two children," French outlet M6info reported.

"The police were called last night to intervene in the centre of Paris. In shock, Melissa George, had a swelling of the face and complained of pain, nausea and dizziness."

Local reports claimed the former and star was seen looking "dizzy and shocked" on the street after an incident at the family's apartment in the trendy 8th District of Paris.

Jean-David, who is the founder of French cinema promoting and distributing group AlloCine, was reportedly question by police, and cleared of any drug or alcohol use at the time.

Melissa and Jean-David met at BAFTA after-party in 2011 and started dating in 2012. The pair has two sons, Raphael, two, and Solal, 11 months.

The Perth-born star was previously married to Chilean film director Claudio Dabed from 2000 to 2011.

She recently appeared in the short-lived TV drama Heartbeat, and will be seen next in the Australian movie The Butterfly Tree.