http://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/saskatoon/josh-petrin-murder-trial-pay-testimony-1.3796177
120
12
Crown witnesses at the Josh Petrin murder trial demanded more than $30,000 to testify against the accused killer and were paid at least a portion of that before the trial began.

This is not a normal practice and raises serious questions about the credibility of the testimony, according to University of Saskatchewan law professor Glen Luther.

Lorry Santos was fatally shot four years ago in a botched gang hit in Saskatoon. It's alleged that Petrin, a member of the White Boy Posse gang, ordered the hit that went bad.

Lorry Santos was fatally shot four years ago. (Facebook)

Luther, a veteran instructor and former trial lawyer, said he has never heard of witnesses getting paid under these circumstances.

"To start paying witnesses thousands of dollars to testify raises great concerns about whether that's legitimate," he said.

"This kind of practice needs some public discussion, and part of the discussion should be who is approving this? Is there actually a policy? What is the policy? When will we pay this money, under what conditions?"

CBC made repeated requests to Public Prosecutions and the Saskatoon Police Service for information on the history of paying witnesses over the past five years, the budget for the payments and the policy.

Both the government and police refused to discuss the issue at all until the Petrin trial concludes and the appeal period expires.

Roll call

Prosecutor Matthew Miazga revealed the payment demands during his examination-in-chief of two witnesses.

Law professor Glen Luther (CBC)

Jazmyne Night, who testified that she sold cocaine for Petrin, demanded $15,000 from Saskatoon police to take the stand. She said that she received $2,500 "up front," and it was not revealed under what exact circumstances the balance would be paid.

Colten Menard, who said he delivered the guns that were used to kill Santos, demanded $20,000 to testify. It was not revealed how much he was paid.

A third witness, who is protected by a court-ordered publication ban, first denied demanding payment but then changed that story when shown a police statement. Court heard he was never paid for his testimony.

It's not known how many witnesses may have demanded payment or received money.

In his demand letter, filed as a Crown exhibit, Colten Menard said he only wanted to get paid like other witnesses.

"I was instrumental in having other witnesses come forward with statements," he wrote.

"These witnesses have since then received their payment, I have not."

History of payments

Luther said there is a history in Canada of paying different categories of witnesses, and it's not good. It's bad enough that there have been public inquiries and Supreme Court rulings on the subject, he said.

One category is so-called jailhouse informants.

Prosecutor Matthew Miazga (CBC)

"This is generally the cellmate of an accused who claims to have information that the accused said to him, perhaps an admission to a murder or something. That category of witnesses has created all kinds of problems and is of great concern, I think, to everyone in the justice system in terms of wrongful convictions," he said.

"The fact that they got a deal gives an incentive to any prisoner to make up a story that someone has told them."

Another is payment to so-called accomplice witnesses. These are individuals connected to a violent offense.

"The Supreme Court law on this is that there has to be a so-called clear, sharp warning to a jury or a trier of fact about the lack of credibility of such witnesses," he said.

A costly precedent

Luther is also concerned about the precedent set in the Petrin trial.

Typically, trial lawyers obtain a subpoena to compel a witness to testify. There may be a payment, but that would be to cover incidentals such as parking, mileage or meals.

"Unless we're going to start paying all witnesses more money, we shouldn't be paying them on a one-off basis. And certainly that decision shouldn't be made by the investigating officer and the prosecutor actually handling that file. It should be handled by somebody independent of that," he said.

"Maybe it was, but they're not telling us."

Final arguments will be heard Wednesday, Oct. 12.