http://indianexpress.com/article/pune/pune-1st-fully-online-fyjc-admissions-end-3072814/
20
2
As a part of the process to ensure smooth admissions for next year, CAP officials have sent out an appeal to all stakeholders to send ideas for guidance for next year’s FYJC admissions. (Express Archive) As a part of the process to ensure smooth admissions for next year, CAP officials have sent out an appeal to all stakeholders to send ideas for guidance for next year’s FYJC admissions. (Express Archive)

THE CENTRALISED Admission Process (CAP) committee declared that the online process for first year junior college (FYJC) admissions has come to an end on Saturday, after 11 rounds of admissions and several hiccups with protests by parents, students and even activists. Even though officials admit that the process was long-drawn, for the first time, the Class XI admissions have been completely online and no offline round of admission was taken until the last student was admitted, claimed authorities.

“Every year there are complaints from students and parents about not getting colleges of their choice. For the last three years, the admission process is online; but every year due to student’s demands there would be some remaining seats where college level admissions took place.

This year, we have ensured that not a single admission took place offline, eliminating the possibility of any wrongdoing. Though we admit that it took a lot of time but for next year, we have already started the process to ensure that the admission process does not drag for so long,” said Meenakshi Raut, assistant director of education, Pune.

As a part of the process to ensure smooth admissions for next year, CAP officials have sent out an appeal to all stakeholders to send ideas for guidance for next year’s FYJC admissions. “We appeal to retired officials, education experts, former principals, teachers, various student organisations, Parent-Teacher Association representatives as well as IT experts to send ideas for smoother online admissions next year. We want this to be a participative process with the public. Those who wish to write to us can email at 11thonlineadmissiondydpune@gmail.com,” said Dinkar Temkar, Deputy Director of Education, Pune.

Giving statistics of this year’s admissions, he said that of the 245 colleges that have 546 divisions with total intake capacity of 79665, the total admissions are 64023 while 15642 seats are vacant. The maximum vacancies are in the Science faculty where 6296 seats are vacant.