https://article.wn.com/view/2016/10/18/EU_Nations_Confident_Belgium_Will_Remove_Barriers_To_Canada_/
120
12
European Union nations will likely extend the deadline to back a landmark trade deal with Canada scheduled for passage Tuesday as lone holdout Belgium appears to be holding up the pact, The Associated Press reported.

EU ministers remain optimistic the pact can be completed by next week when Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is to arrive and sign it, the report said.

Belgian Foreign Minister Didier Reynders said divisions within his nation over the deal remained even as EU foreign trade ministers were gathering for what should have been a meeting to sign off on the deal.

Meanwhile, Reynders turned his attention to making further progress at a two-day summit of EU leaders starting Thursday, the report said.

"The goal is to be able to progress at the summit at the end of the week," he said.

Trudeau is to travel to Brussels to sign the agreement on Oct. 27. EU Foreign Trade Commissioner Margot Malmstroem said there was still time to overcome Belgian objections right up to "when the prime minister needs to book his tickets from Canada."

The trade pact requires backing from all 28 member states, and Belgium can only back it if all of its regions do so, the report said.

The southern region of Wallonia with a population of 3.5 million people again rejected the deal last week. EU and Belgian officials are now working on an interpretive text that goes with the agreement to pull them on board and save the deal between 500 million EU citizens and 35 million Canadians.

EU countries fear the bloc will lose credibility if a deal of this size can be scuppered by a member state's single region, the report said.

"If we don't agree with Canada, with whom are we going to agree? I don't understand," said Slovak Minister Peter Ziga, who chaired the meeting. "Belgium is a country that built the European Union from the very beginning," when trade was key to creating the bloc, he said. "I don't understand it.”

Wallonia fears its farmers will be priced out of the market with cheap Canadian produce and many of the labor standards they fought for will be swept away.

Many Walloons also say it will be a precursor for a similar deal with the United States, the so-called TTIP, which they fear will cut even further into their livelihoods and consumer and environmental standards.

Tuesday's initial deadline for the so-called Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement with Canada was slipping fast out of reach as Wallonia Minister President Paul Magnette raised last-minute objections. "We will need a few more days," he said late Monday.

Germany remained confident the deal would eventually be approved, the report said. "I don't think that the agreement can fail," German Economy Minister Sigmar Gabriel said. Even if some other EU nations don't feel fully comfortable with the agreement, it is only Belgium's approval that is missing, officials said.

Canada's International Trade Minister Chrystia Freeland told reporters in Ottawa she remained "cautiously optimistic" about the deal. "But at this point the ball is very much in the European court."

"We're working hard with the Europeans ... Everyone I talked to today said: 'Hang on in there, we believe this is going to happen.'"

The deal is expected to yield billions in added trade through tariff cuts and other measures to lower barriers to commerce, the report said. At the same time, the EU says it will keep in place the region's strong safeguards on social, environmental and labor issues.

– WN.com, Jack Durschlag



