http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3875628/Senior-Taliban-commander-suing-Ministry-Defence-detaining-bomb-dust-held-British-troops-safe.html
120
12
A senior Taliban commander suing the Ministry of Defence for detaining him had ‘bomb dust all over him’ and had to be held to keep British troops safe, the Supreme Court heard yesterday.

Serdar Mohammed - convicted of making roadside bombs used to blow up troops - claimed his human rights were breached when he was imprisoned for 110 days by UK forces in 2010.

His lawyers - the controversial firm Leigh Day - argued he should not have been held for longer than 96 hours under the European Convention of Human Rights (ECHR).

British troops are now being investigated over alleged war crimes in Afghanistan after the Ministry of Defence quietly set up a new inquiry following hundreds of complaints (file photo)

But the MoD said had they followed EU human rights laws, troops would have faced a ‘lethal Catch 22’ situation where they would had been forced to free insurgents who could kill soldiers.

Or, if they had followed Afghan law, British soldiers would have had ‘no more power than the average shopkeeper in Kabul’.

Yesterday a panel of nine judges heard how detaining suspected insurgents was a ‘vital function’ in order to protect both UK forces and the population, and was at the ‘heart’ of the UN mission.

James Eadie QC, on behalf of the MoD, said: ‘The premise on which the legal issues arise is that detention is a vital function, vital for the purpose of the UN mandate and for the protection of both ISAF forces and the population generally.’

The court heard how two months after the enemy combatant was captured in April, lab tests came back showing he had explosive and chemical traces all over his body.

Earlier intelligence had also indicated he was the area’s deputy commander of the Taliban, known as Mullah Gulmad, and was in charge of a local terror training camp in 2009.

Mr Eadie said: ‘It became clear terribly early from intelligence that this person was or might be the deputy commander of the Taliban in the area.’

It became clear terribly early from intelligence that this person was or might be the deputy commander of the Taliban in the area James Eadie QC, representing the MoD

He said there was then a physical examination and the tests were sent to a lab.

He said: ‘That ultimately led in June 2010 to the discovery of the IED (improvised explosive devices) traces, the chemical, the TNT (explosive chemical), discovered on him.

‘He had IED dust all over him.’

Mr Eadie said both human rights laws and Afghan laws would have prevented UK soldiers from detaining him for a prolongued period of time.

He said: ‘How on earth is the United Nations security force supposed to fulfil its mission with no more than the power of citizens arrest available to the average shopkeeper in Kabul.’

Mohammed is the first to challenge the legal basis for UK detention.

If he wins the landmark case, hundreds of other fanatics held by British forces in Iraq and Afghanistan for more than four days could all win substantial payouts.

Around 80 Afghans - also represented by Leigh Day and who have already lodged claims - stand to receive tens of thousands of pounds.

Mohammed was captured during a 10-hour firefight which involved a rocket-propelled grenade being fired at UK troops in April 2010. During his capture three British troops were wounded.

He was later convicted of being a Taliban member involved in the large-scale production of roadside bombs used to maim British troops.

The insurgent - who protests his innocence - was later prosecuted in the Afghan courts and sentenced to 16 years in prison, which was reduced in an appeal to ten years.

Special investigation unit: Members of the Royal Military Police are investigating as part of Operation Northmoor, with staff based out of RAF St Mawgan, near Newquay (pictured)

For unknown reasons, he is now walking free after being reunited with his family in his home in the Kajaki district of Helmand.

In July 2015, the Court of Appeal ruled in Leigh Day’s favour saying Afghans were detained unlawfully but the MoD are fighting the decision.

Earlier this year, then defence minister Penny Mordaunt, said effectively, he was suing Britain for not shooting him in a firefight and taking him into custody instead.

In an earlier case Mr Eadie warned troops faced a ‘lethal Catch 22’ situation, in which troops could neither hold enemy fighters or hand them over to authorities in case they were tortured.

The hearing heard how he was treated as a prisoner of war under the Geneva Convention.

Last month Theresa May announced Britain would derogate from the ECHR in future conflicts to stop cases like this going to court

Under those rules, captives could be detained as a long as it is justified as an ‘imperative’ for security.

But his lawyers argued that the ECHR, of which Britain is a signatory, should take precedence.

Under Article 5, the right to liberty, detainees should not be held for longer than 96 hours.

If troops had followed the ECHR they would have been forced to release him even though he was deemed a threat to security.

Then yesterday it emerged that under local Afghan law, troops could not detain insurgents for longer than 72 hours and had they followed it they would have had no more power than a citizens arrest.

But the Afghan law argument will not be considered any further, the court heard yesterday.

Last month Theresa May announced Britain would derogate from the ECHR in future conflicts to stop cases such as this going to court.

Mohammed has also lodged criminal allegations of ill-treatment against British troops as part of a taxpayer-funded probe into claims arising out of Afghanistan called Operation Northmoor.

UK soldiers who detained him could be prosecuted as a result.

A judgement on the civil claim is expected in the new year.