http://denver.cbslocal.com/2016/10/11/police-thank-firefighters-for-helping-catch-deadly-hit-run-suspect/
120
12
DENVER (CBS4)– Police have arrested man they believe is responsible for a deadly hit-and-run crash on Monday night involving four vehicles.

An adult female was killed in the crash in the southbound lanes of Colorado Boulevard and Interstate 70 about 6:40 p.m. Monday.

Investigators pulled the suspect driver, later identified as Tyler White, 25, from the water of the lake in City Park where he was discovered after the crash.

Someone called police about a person in the water of the lake and detectives on the scene of the hit-and-run went to investigate.

“A call came in about a person at City Park that may have possibly matched the description. I would just like to say thanks to the quick thinking of the firefighters on the scene of our investigation, they heard the call come out and mentioned to the detectives, ‘Hey, it sounds like it might be your suspect,’ and so officers were immediately dispatched to that location,” said said Denver Police Traffic Investigator Lt. Robert Rock.

It is unclear how White ended up in the water or whether he was trying to elude officers.

“We’re trying to investigate what led up to that situation,” said Rock.

Police say White was speeding while driving a white 2014 Dodge Challenger when the vehicle rear-ended a Toyota Prius. A woman inside that vehicle was killed.

Two other cars were involved and several people were rushed to the hospital.

Investigators say that’s when White ran to a nearby gas station, flagged down a driver and got inside before that car took off.

They followed White to City Park where he was found in the lake. Police believe either alcohol or drugs, or both, were involved.

White remains in custody for investigation of vehicular homicide, driving under the influence and leaving the scene of a fatal crash.

Police said it appears White was in Colorado from Tennessee looking for work.

“He did not have a local address and was the registered owner of the vehicle,” said Rock.

The deceased victim in the crash has not been identified.