http://www.presstv.ir/Detail/2016/10/11/488623/Lebanon-Hezbollah-resistance-Seyyed-Hassan-Nasrallah-Tasua
120
12
Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah, the secretary general of the Lebanese resistance movement, Hezbollah, has warned of plots by the US, Saudi Arabia and their regional allies to partition Syria in order to serve the Israeli regime’s interests in the Middle East.

The “real goal” of the countries that have neither democracy nor elections was not democracy or elections in Syria, Nasrallah said on Tuesday.

“The goal was for Syria to fall and be fragmented and be ripped apart” in line with Israel’s interests, he added.

Nasrallah made the remarks at the Sayyed al-Shohada Complex in the Lebanese capital, Beirut, on the ninth day of the lunar month of Muharram, Tasu'a, the eve of the martyrdom anniversary of Imam Hussein, the third Shia Imam, and his 72 companions.

He said the Daesh Takfiri militants and al-Qaeda affiliated terrorists of Jabhat Fateh al-Sham, formerly known as al-Nusra, “are being used to serve and achieve US and Israeli goals.”

Nasrallah further noted that the US seeks to concentrate Daesh terrorists in eastern Syria, adding that Washington is allowing and "opening the roads for" Daesh militants to flee from Iraq into Syria.

He cited the recent "deliberate action" by the US to launch airstrikes against Syrian army positions in eastern Syria as an example of Washington's attempts to boost Daesh in the region, adding, "US raids on Dayr al-Zawr were targeting the Syrian army positions so that the whole area would fall to Daesh."

The Hezbollah leader said, "All those who are defending Syria defend the Resistance and look forward to a political solution and not to more bloodshed," but "US, Saudi Arabia and some regional states are demanding crippling conditions to neutralize the political solutions."

Pointing to a recent abortive truce deal between the US and Russia on Syria, the Hezbollah chief said Washington withdrew from the agreement because it called for the separation of Jabhat Fateh al-Sham from other militant groups and the identification and targeting of Daesh and Jabhat Fateh al-Sham positions.

Nasrallah said the US, Saudi Arabia and their regional allies are obstructing a diplomatic solution to the crisis in Syria and the easing of the sufferings of the Syrian people.

He expressed regret that "more escalation and tensions" is on the horizon in Syria, but called for "perseverance and firm stance" in order to counter the plots of the country's enemies.

The Hezbollah chief said Syria's foes sought "a decisive victory within a few weeks" but have faced stiff resistance from the Syrian government and nation and their allies for over five years.

Sana’a carnage major scandal for Saudi Arabia

In another part of his speech, Nasrallah pointed to the recent bloody air raid by Saudi Arabia on a funeral hall in the Yemeni capital of Sana’a and said the strike was a major scandal for Al Saud regime.

Hezbollah leader said some media circles had noted that his remarks on Saudi attack in Sana'a would affect chances of Michel Aoun becoming Lebanon’s next president, which could end a political crisis in the country.

Noting that the demand was tantamount to political blackmail, Nasrallah added, “Even [UN Secretary General] Ban Ki-moon has condemned this strike, although he has always been silent, so how do you want me to remain silent?”

Nasrallah added that the Saudi regime committed a “historic mistake” in Yemen by thinking that it could emerge victorious from the battle within weeks.

The Hezbollah chief condemned the international community’s silence on the bombardment of Yemen by Saudi warplanes and said the world must convince Riyadh that it cannot win this war.

He emphasized that the Sana’a massacre must provide a motive for ending the war in Yemen and added that the Saudi regime has no option but to accept the political solution.

“Saudi Arabia's insistence on carrying on with the war will not only make it lose Yemen, but will also make it lose itself. The current Saudi leadership is pushing the kingdom to the brink of the abyss,” Nasrallah pointed out, recommending the Saudi rulers to come to their senses.

All parties must preserve Lebanon’s peace and security

The Hezbollah secretary general further stressed the importance of preserving security, stability and civil in Lebanon, describing them as the “pillars of everything,” and adding, “Despite their differences, the Lebanese have managed to preserve security, stability and peace.”

Nasrallah stated that Lebanon has entered a positive political phase during the past few weeks with regard to the presidential election.

“We support and welcome any positive political developments regarding the presidency and we will acknowledge the efforts and courage of anyone who makes efforts in this regard,” Nasrallah pointed out.

He noted that Hezbollah has always pursued a clear stance on Lebanon’s presidential election, adding, “We support every positive political change, which may solve the presidency challenge.”

Hezbollah leader concluded his remarks by stressing the importance of supporting the Lebanese army without any political reservations.