http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/jobless-teen-first-person-fined-9023168
125
12
Connor Jones was fined £90 for his clown scare

The first person in Britain to be fined - and get a criminal record - for terrorising people as a so-called 'killer clown' has been unmasked as a jobless teenager.

Connor Jones, 18, was arrested after he scared children at a school while dressed in a snarling mask and black and white jumpsuit.

School staff were so concerned they issued a warning to parents via a messaging app.

Jones was arrested for breaching public order at St Cenydd Comprehensive School in Caerphilly, South Wales - and fined £90 for his menacing prank.

Police visited Jones at his home after they received reports of a mystery man "intimidating" children.

WALES NEWS SERVICE The 18-year-old dressed as a clown

WALES NEWS SERVICE School staff were so concerned they issued a warning to parents via a messaging app

He admitted he had stood on a pedestrian bridge outside the school and neighbouring Hendre Infants school as children were leaving.

Parent Dai Evans, 34, was collecting two children when Jones was dressed as the clown.

Mr Evans said: "The teachers were in the yard and they moved the children away because he was doing it.

"Then we had a message on the school's app warning us that someone was dressed as a clown."

WALES NEWS SERVICE The fine will go on Jones's criminal record

He added: "There is a time and place to have a laugh and a joke - but not outside a school on a Friday afternoon."

Jones, who previously worked as a labourer, refused to comment after accusing a friend of "grassing him up".

He said: "I'm not afraid to make enemies. I've paid my £90 and that's it."

A Gwent Police spokesman said: "An 18-year-old-man from Penyrheol, Caerphilly, was issued a Fixed Penalty Notice and fined £90 for a Public Order offence.

"This will now go on his criminal record."

WALES NEWS SERVICE Connor posted this Snapchat about his fine

Chief Inspector Paul Staniforth said: "Gwent Police will not tolerate such behaviour and anyone seeking to cause distress and potential harm to anyone will be dealt with.

"In this case, not only is this man out of pocket, he will now have a criminal record which will impact his future, including any job opportunities.

"I hope this result sends a strong message to anyone thinking about taking part in this craze, that their five minutes of what they may think is fun really isn't worth it."

Police agencies across Britain have received dozens of reports of pranksters dressed as clowns terrorising people on the street.

WALES NEWS SERVICE Police visited Jones at his home after they received reports of a man 'intimidating' children.

In some cases the clowns have been armed with weapons - including a pair armed with a machete in Manchester and a man who caused panic as he carried a chainsaw outside Brunel University in London.

Clowns have chased children on the street, lurked around parks or schools, or even peered through windows.

The craze started in the US in August and has spread to Britain and other countries thanks in part to social media and media coverage.