http://www.philstar.com/headlines/2016/10/12/1632815/house-seeks-probe-de-limas-former-escort
120
12
MANILA, Philippines – Joenel Sanchez, a member of the Presidential Security Group (PSG) who served as a security escort of Sen. Leila de Lima when she was justice secretary, is in hot water.

The committee on justice of the House of Representatives has asked the PSG, Department of Justice (DOJ) and National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) to look into claims by witnesses that he was De Lima’s bagman for millions allegedly contributed by convicted drug lords to her senatorial campaign in the May 9 elections.

Mindoro Oriental Rep. Rey Umali, committee chairman, said yesterday his panel made the request in the wake of testimonies by at least three witnesses that Sanchez collected money for De Lima despite denials made by the PSG officer and the former justice secretary.

“Two top drug lords, Jaybee Sebastian and Herbert Colanggo, testified that they handed millions to Sanchez for De Lima. Another witness made a similar statement. Sanchez of course denied it, but it’s the word of three persons against the word of one. To me, what Sanchez told us is half-truth,” he said in a television interview.

He said Sebastian claimed to have turned over at least P6 million to De Lima’s former security escort, while Colanggo allegedly gave Sanchez P3 million a month for the former justice secretary.

He added that the PSG, DOJ and NBI should file criminal or administrative charges against the former De Lima security escort “after further investigating him.”

Headlines ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1

Though Sanchez has denied receiving millions from convicted drug dealers serving time at the New Bilibid Prison, he has admitted to receiving P25,000 from a representative of Colanggo when his father suffered a heart attack.

The committee on justice has terminated its inquiry, which was supposed to be in aid of legislation but unavoidably focused on De Lima’s alleged drug links.

Caloocan City Rep. Edgar Erice said the Umali panel “has accomplished its objective, which is to destroy Sen. de Lima.”

“That was the real purpose of the inquiry. It was not in aid of legislation. The witnesses performed like a chorus: they all pointed to the former justice secretary. What about the officials they gave money to before the Aquino administration? These irregularities at Bilibid have been going on since 30 years, 40 years ago,” he said.

He said the inquiry sent a chilling message to other critics of President Duterte.

“They better behave or they will be destroyed,” he added.