http://www.thedailystar.net/backpage/rickshaw-puller-goes-court-says-no-problem-1285609
120
12
Hours after he was shot in the left thigh allegedly by a Jubo League man on Friday, rickshaw puller Abdul Kabir left Dhaka Medical College Hospital for “better treatment”, DMCH sources said.

But interestingly, the man, with his leg bandaged, appeared before a Dhaka court yesterday and said he would have no objection if the accused, Yusuf Sardar Sohel, got bail.

Just a day ago, Kabir had filed a case against Sohel with Banani Police Station following the shooting in Banani area.

Yesterday, police produced the Jubo League leader before the court and sought a five-day remand for him.

As it was an attempted murder case, the general recording officer was supposed to oppose the bail but he did not, citing the reason that the plaintiff himself did not oppose it.

Metropolitan Magistrate Golam Nabi granted Sohel bail for a bond of Tk 5,000.

Sohel, joint convener of Banani Thana Jubo League, allegedly shot and injured Kabir who just wanted him to pay for the trip he made on the rickshaw from Gulshan to Banani.

Kabir, a resident of Karail slum under Banani Police Station, was rushed to the DMCH. It was unclear where he had gone after being discharged from the hospital.

DMCH sources said Kabir was going somewhere else for “better treatment”.

After the incident, Sohel himself went to the Banani Police Station and filed a general diary. In the GD, he claimed that he had to fire shots in the air to “escape a mugging attempt”, said Md Wahiduzzaman, officer-in-charge of the station.

However, police later came to know that Sohel shot the rickshaw puller and they arrested him at a hotel in Banani. They also recovered a gun and 22 bullets from him.

Sohel claimed before police that he had a licence for the firearm. Police said he was “drunk” during the incident.

In 2012, Sohel was implicated in another criminal case.

Three Jubo League men, including Zakir Hossain, the then general secretary of Jubo League's DCC North ward-20 unit, were injured as criminals opened fire on them inside their office in the capital's Mohakhali on July 1 that year.

Zakir was an aspirant for general secretary post of Banani Thana Jubo League and had been involved in a dispute with Sohel, another aspirant for the post.

On April 15 last year, Bakhtiar Alam Rony, son of AL lawmaker and acting Mohila AL general secretary Pinu Khan, fired random shots in the air from his jeep after “being frustrated over post-midnight traffic” on New Eskaton Road, leaving a rickshaw-puller and an auto-rickshaw driver dead.