http://thezimbabwemail.com/zimbabwe-1697-mnangagwa-takes-dig-at-gumbo.html
125
12
OUSTED former Zanu PF spokesman, Rugare Gumbo is a perpetual and confused rabble-rouser, acting President Emmerson Mnangagwa has said.

Mnangagwa said this as he narrated his political feud with Gumbo for the control of the Midlands province, which ended with the latter’s expulsion late 2014.

Mnangagwa told the ruling party’s Midlands provincial coordinating committee meeting in Gweru this week that Gumbo never understood the political dynamics in the ruling party.

“After the 2004 congress, Rugare Gumbo was appointed secretary for information by the President (Robert Mugabe).

“He got so excited about it that he addressed people in the Midlands proclaiming that he was now the most senior person in the province. The President at one time had to admonish Webster Shamu the former political commissar after he insinuated that he is more senior than me as then legal secretary,” Mnangagwa said.

“Shamu was quick to retract and see he was aware that positions do not matter. Rugare Gumbo was not aware of that and now you see where he is. Out in the cold just because he thought he had become bigger than the party.”

He said the party continuously deploys its members to different positions within the structures and as such, positions don’t really matter.

“We have deployed the likes of Jorum Gumbo and others to the Central Committee, and province depending on the dynamics of the day but they have never complained,” he said.

Zanu PF’s new political commissar Saviour Kasukuwere joined in the attack on Gumbo and relived the former party spokesman’s actions during the liberation struggle.

“I am not sure how people give names like Rugare which relates to comfort and living in harmony with others to a man who is nothing but a trouble maker for decades.

“Rugare Gumbo has all his life been fighting others. I was not there when he was kicked out in Mozambique. Even former Tanzanian general Hashim Mbita has confirmed that the man is a problem,” said Kasukuwere.

“He announced the results of Mashonaland Central before people voted, in the highest fit of madness. We chased him from the party. Even journalists tried to speak to him and he just rushed out quietly after the politburo decided enough is enough. We are certain now we have a united presidency with President Mugabe at the top, Mnangagwa and Phelekezela Mphoko just below him. We have two intelligence gurus in the presidium and that is what we wanted. We can develop our country and party and we are ready for the challenge.”

His colleagues, former labour minister Nicholas Goche, former party secretary for administration Didymus Mutasa as well as ex-vice president Joice Mujuru, were also kicked out on allegations of plotting to assassinate Mugabe.Gumbo was expelled from Zanu PF late last year.

They have all denied the charges against them and continue to argue that Mugabe has lost the plot and the party has been infiltrated by elements bent on destroying it from within.