https://article.wn.com/view/2016/09/16/Trump_Is_Closing_in_the_Polls_What_It_Really_Means/
120
12
While this week's polls suggest Trump is inching closer to the White House , the truth is, he remains miles away.

Hillary Clinton has advantages heading into the final stretch of the campaign that any presidential candidate would envy: a fleet of popular surrogates, a mountain of cash...

Hillary Clinton has advantages heading into the final stretch of the campaign that any presidential candidate would envy: a fleet of popular surrogates, a mountain of cash...

Hillary Clinton has advantages heading into the final stretch of the campaign that any presidential candidate would envy: a fleet of popular surrogates, a mountain of cash...

(CNN)Hillary Clinton has advantages heading into the final stretch of the campaign that any presidential candidate would envy: a fleet of popular surrogates, a mountain of...

If you tune into the news these days it would be easy to conclude that the presidential race is too close to call and that it's all going to come down to what happens in...

If Clinton wins, more in GOP say no to 9 on Supreme Court

Hillary Clinton and the FBI: acrimony could leave US more divided than ever

Aviator Amelia Earhart May Have Spent Last Days As A Castaway On An Island

Related News

Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton prepare to debate Hillary Clinton has advantages heading into the final stretch of the campaign that any presidential candidate would envy: a fleet of popular surrogates, a mountain of cash and an opponent who is often sidetracked by self-inflicted wounds. Yet the Democratic nominee enters this home stretch in a dead heat against Donald Trump, according to a CNN/ORC poll released Tuesday. The... The Oklahoman





Ben Carson: It is what it is, Trump is the nominee now Hillary Clinton has advantages heading into the final stretch of the campaign that any presidential candidate would envy: a fleet of popular surrogates, a mountain of cash and an opponent who is often sidetracked by self-inflicted wounds. Yet the Democratic nominee enters this home stretch in a dead heat against Donald Trump, according to a CNN/ORC poll released Tuesday. The... The Oklahoman





Start Time, Streaming Video For Sunday’s Debate Viewers can watch the 2015 Democratic presidential debate live online and see if Bernie Sanders can keep the pressure on Hillary Clinton as the polls tighten and the first primary voting grows ever closer. The debate takes place Sunday at 9 p.m. ET from Charleston, South Carolina. The debate will be aired on NBC and carried live online for those watching the streaming coverage... Inquisitr





Swing States: States That Can Decide the 2016 Presidential Election A handful of states, during the course of every presidential campaign, become an unusually BFD to the rest of the Union. Called swing states, these holdouts cannot be relied upon to vote definitively Democratic or Republican, but can heavily influence the outcome of an election, depending on whether they swing red or blue. A candidate needs 270 electoral votes to win the... Yahoo Daily News



