http://www.mirror.co.uk/incoming/woman-clings-14th-floor-balcony-9020310
120
12
Chilling audio footage captures the final hours of a young woman allegedly murdered by a man she met on Tinder, a court has heard.

Warriena Wright, 26, and Gable Tostee were matched through the popular dating app and went back to his apartment on the 14th floor of a block of apartments.

They were intimate, but afterwards the pair got into an argument during which he physically restrained her, a court heard.

Warriena, who was visiting Brisbane, Australia, from New Zealand, fled onto his balcony, where Tostee then locked her out, a court heard.

facebook Warriena Wright

Queensland Supreme Court A police photograph of a re-enactment of the death of New Zealand woman Warriena Wright

Strap yourselves in, folks. Day 2 of the #Tostee trial starts in 10 mins @newscomauHQ pic.twitter.com/YAJ9c14Aco — Kim Stephens (@kimbo_stephens) October 10, 2016

In more than three hours of footage recorded on Tostee's phone, Warriena can be heard getting upset.

Tostee threatens her saying: "You're lucky I haven't chucked you off my balcony you goddamn psycho little b****."

"I'm gonna walk you out of this apartment just the way you are, you're not going to collect any belongings.

"If you try to pull anything I'll knock you out, I'll knock you the f*** out."

Warriena can then be heard hysterically screaming "No".

She then says: "I want to go home, I want to go home."

PA Gable Tostee is seen being released on bail from the Arthur Gorrie Correctional Centre west of Brisbane

Queensland Supreme Court Police photograph of Gable Tostee's 14th floor apartment

About 15 seconds later, the recording captured her scream as she fell to her death trying to climb down to the balcony below.

The court heard how Tostee called his father shortly after and said: "Dad, this is really f***ed up, why does this s*** keep happening to me?

"I swear to god I didn't push her, I just chucked her out on the balcony because she was beating me up.

"Oh my god, I hope she's not dead."

The pair had met via the dating app Tinder

Prosecutors do not allege Tostee pushed or threw Warriena, but they argue she was left in so much fear she attempted the only means of escape.

Tostee is therefore responsible for murder, it is claimed.

Prosecutors also presented pictures of a police re-enactment of the moment Warriena fell to her death after failing to cling on to the balcony.

Tostee, 30, denies murder or any responsibility for Warriena's death in August 2014.

The trial continues.