http://www.express.co.uk/news/uk/700910/Sturgeon-s-flagship-Named-Person-scheme-savaged-by-dad-kept-from-sick-baby
120
12
DAVID FOREMAN / GETTY Nicola Sturgeon is being called upon to launch a Named Person inquiry into Highland Council

David Foreman was alarmed to discover his desperately ill four-month-old baby had been airlifted to hospital for life-saving treatment and the information had been deliberately kept from him. Mr Foreman, 53, slammed the man responsible for Nicola Sturgeon's Named Person's policy and demanded Highland Council is subject to an inquiry over its unlawful handling of his case. And he's personally calling on the First Minister to launch an inquiry into the behaviour of a council chief who helped spearhead the failed policy. Highland Council has been operating a pilot version of the controversial legislation since 2010 but the Supreme Court has blocked its national roll out. David Foreman from Dorset, who lives in Wick, has been pleading with Director of Health and Social Care Bill Alexander for access to information and case notes on his daughter's well being for weeks. He has since discovered through a subject data access request that his four-month-old daughter has been airlifted to hospital and had her name changed on case notes, which is in breach of the law.

DAVID FOREMAN Mr Foreman says he's been treated like a criminal for having an interest in his child's life

The UK Supreme Court ruled the Scottish Government's policy breached Human Rights laws last month. But Mr Alexander, who has been receiving millions taxpayer's money to pilot the policy for six years and earns at least £107,568-a-year, has not only refused to help but has admitted there is too many managers after the child was given five different Named Persons in just four months. The shocking situation illustrates the reckless nature in which the policy was tested in Scotland before it was meant to be rolled-out at the end of August across the country, says Mr Foreman. And Mr Alexander's staff have admitted in writing to the worried father that the council has allowed his child's name to be changed in contravention to the law. The Council and NHS Highland who are supposed to be working in tandem have refused to give Mr Foreman access to vital information on his sick baby who was airlifted to 250 miles to hospital without his knowledge.

GOOGLE The first minister is being called to investigate Highland Council

Mr Foreman, a former finance director, has been desperately trying to get access to information on his baby daughter who was born with very serious illness just four months ago. He is no longer in a relationship with the child's mother and asked the council to help him get access to her medical records when he was refused help from the health board. But instead he's been refused his basic rights despite his name being on the birth certificate. He had to go to the extent of requesting his daughter's notes under Freedom of Information laws. He only found out about her condition when he spoke with a consultant at Edinburgh Royal Infirmary by telephone who was legally bound to provide information.

GETTY Nicola Sturgeon and John Swinney are determined to roll out Named Person

Mr Foreman said: "I've been treated like a criminal for having the best interests of my child at heart. "My daughter is very sick and has had numerous visits to hospital and has been airlifted without my knowledge. "I love my daughter, all I am trying to do is find out about her wellbeing, she is a very sick child and to be banned from getting basic information is destroying me. "The council has confirmed they have allowed her name to be changed irrespective of the law.

Twitter Bill Alexander is paid £107,568-a-year from the taxpayer

Nicola Sturgeon should be ashamed and Mr Alexander should be considering his position. David Foreman

"When I contacted Bill Alexander I was fobbed off. "It is time Nicola Sturgeon intervened and sorted out the mess that this policy has created. "I am personally calling on the First Minister to act. "There are numerous laws being broken, I have been subjected to horrendous treatment and yet the Council's response is a basic dereliction of duty. "My baby daughter is just four months old and yet I have had five separate people involved in her case and there is not one individual tasked with her welfare that has been able to help me. " Indeed Mr Foreman - who is now considering legal action - has repeatedly received conflicting information. As a last resort he contacted the council's Named Person chief on August 2 and was told by Mr Alexander: "There are enough people involved just now I suggest, without adding another manager like myself."

However since then his daughter has undergone an operation in hospital and has had her name on all of her medical records and her social work records changed without his permission. In Scotland, a child's name can only be changed when all those with parental responsibility have consented, or a Court Order has been obtained to allow the change. A court order is currently not in place with regards to Mr Foreman's child nor has he been contacted by anyone to receive permission. Instead when he demanded to know what happened he received the following response: "Parents are entitled to call their child whatever they wish."

GETTY Social work resources have failed to provide a Named Person