http://in.reuters.com/article/idINFit976450
125
12
(The following statement was released by the rating agency) SINGAPORE, October 11 (Fitch) Perisai Petroleum's bond default is symptomatic of financial strains across much of south-east Asia's oil & gas service industry. Singapore banks are exposed to credit risks emanating from the sector, but are well-placed to withstand potential losses, says Fitch Ratings. Perisai Petroleum, a Malaysian offshore oil & gas service provider, defaulted on bonds worth SGD125m (USD90m) on 3 October after bondholders rejected the company's restructuring plans. Perisai has other debt - worth around MYR791m (USD260m) at end-June 2016 - with major Singaporean and Malaysian banks likely to be among the main creditors. The combined oil & gas exposure of Singapore's three rated banks - DBS, OCBC and UOB - was SGD51.3bn at end-June 2016. This represented 55% of their combined core equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital. This may seem high, although the majority of their oil & gas exposure is collateralised. Furthermore, only SGD17bn of this exposure is to the more vulnerable subsector of offshore support services, accounting for 18% of banks' CET1 capital. The weighted-average NPL ratio for these three banks remained low at 1.23%, but we expect this to rise modestly as more oil & gas-related NPLs emerge. Fitch believes Singapore banks are securely positioned to withstand further asset-quality deterioration, given their disciplined underwriting standards and healthy provision buffers of just over 100% (as a proportion of NPLs). Adequate profitability, sound funding and liquidity positions, and strong capitalisation also support Singapore banks' 'AA-' ratings, which we affirmed in May with Stable Outlooks. Perisai's case is far from isolated. A number of other regional oil & gas service companies have also run into trouble this year. Swiber Holdings filed for creditor protection in July, leading DBS to classify SGD651m of its SGD721m exposure to the troubled group as non-performing, with the remainder expected to be classified in the third quarter. Swissco Holdings on 4 October appointed Ernst & Young to assist in the refinancing and restructuring of SGD100m worth of bonds due in 2018. The others in various stages of debt reorganisation include AusGroup and Marco Polo Marine. Fitch had expected the credit metrics of south-east Asian oil and gas issuers to deteriorate this year. The sector is on negative outlook, and we have made multi-notch downgrades on the ratings of oilfield-service companies in the region. Upstream oil producers are still actively looking to reduce costs despite recent rises in oil prices to just over USD50/bbl. Oil & gas service companies have been at the sharp end of the negative effects from investment cuts by oil producers, as well as cost-reductions that have led to lower day-rates for equipment, machinery and services. Small operators like Perisai are especially vulnerable. Larger companies that have more diversified revenue streams or strong balance sheets are better placed to withstand the investment cutbacks. Contacts: Wee Siang Ng Senior Director Financial Institutions +65 6796 7230 Fitch Ratings Singapore Pte Ltd. #35-05, Suntec Tower 4 6 Temasek Boulevard Singapore, 038986 Buddhika Piyasena Senior Director - Head of Energy & Utilities Ratings, Asia Pacific Corporate Ratings +65 6796 7223 Dan Martin Senior Director Fitch Wire +65 6796 7232 Media Relations: Leslie Tan, Singapore, Tel: +65 67 96 7234, Email: leslie.tan@fitchratings.com. The above article originally appeared as a post on the Fitch Wire credit market commentary page. The original article can be accessed at www.fitchratings.com. All opinions expressed are those of Fitch Ratings ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: here. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE. Copyright © 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed. The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers. For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001