http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/714782/Hungary-migrant-crisis-blasted-sustained-attack-immigration-Amnesty-International
120
12
GETTY Hungary found itself in the epicentre of the migrant crisis last year

A report from the human rights agency claims the criminalisation of those hoping to seek asylum in Europe has erupted into violence, with many reporting police beatings and aggressive threats from detention centres. Refugees are also allegedly being denied basic care, in a “flagrant breach” of intentional law and European Union directives. The report comes just a week before the country will take to the polls in a referendum to keep the decision on whether to accept more refugees in their hands - not Brussels’. Hungary found itself in the epicentre of the migrant crisis last year, after thousands of refugees trying to reach Germany flooded the streets of Budapest and tried to set up make shift camps.

GETTY Many refugees are left living in squalid, cramped conditions

Then in September 2015, Hungary closed its southern border with Serbia - later closing off the border with Croatia - and stopping any new refugees reaching its soil. The EU had demanded Hungary take 1,294 refugees but the country refused to follow the quota system from the start and voted against it. So far, the eastern state has accepted no refugees under the plan - and has criminalised those who enter through the border fence with a range of tough penalties including prison sentences. A report from Amnesty International, entitled Stranded Hope, claims the crackdown on migrants carried on through to this year, as access to housing and education was cut.

GETTY The EU had demanded Hungary take 1,294 refugees but the country refused

It read: “The politics and hateful rhetoric towards refugees and migrants continued unabated, and resulted in further deterioration of their situation at Hungary’s borders and inside its territory. “A year after the closure of the border with Serbia, Amnesty International has found that multiple barriers continue to result in serious violations of international and EU law causing significant harm for people seeking international protection at Hungary’s border, and other people on the move.” The report claims migrants are being treated appallingly by the government, who have continued to press on with their anti-immigration rhetoric.

It’s not nice here for the children. It’s barbed wire and no grass, nothing green for them A Palestinian refugee

Asylum seekers are only able to seek refuge though its “transit zones” - sets of metal containers set up at the border fence, where only 30 people are admitted each day and most are detained without grounds for up to four weeks. Those who do not make it int the “transit zones” are then left to fend for themselves at makeshift camps on the border, while those who make it in to reception centres within Hungary languish in poor conditions - faced with the threat of police beatings, a lack of education and minimal access to essential services. One refugee, who spoke to Amnesty International, had travelled from Palestine with her husband, four children aged between three and 13, and her 72-year-old mother-in-law who is unable to walk.

GETTY A massive fence was erected at the Hungarian border

She told the agency: “It’s not nice here for the children. It’s barbed wire and no grass, nothing green for them. It’s hot and not a good environment for them to be in. “The first time we arrived here and saw this we were so scared. It looked like a jail, we were so scared. In Hungary there is suspicion.” Along with leaving them stranded in poor conditions, Stranded Hope claims that within one year close to three thousand migrants were penalised for border crossings. Thousands more were also denied entry or returned forcibly to Serbia, after the law was changed in July 2016 to allow the immediate return of those caught at the border fence or up to 8 km inside Hungarian territory.

GETTY Some are taken into Hungary's “transit zones” to be granted access

The report said: “Fences, teargas, and draconian legislation: over the last year the Hungarian authorities have baulked at little in their determination to keep refugees and migrants out of the country. “The government’s programme of militarisation, criminalisation and isolation has ushered in a set of measures which have resulted in violent push-backs at the border with Serbia, unlawful detentions inside the country and dire living conditions for those waiting at the border. “While the Hungarian government has spent millions of Euros on a xenophobic advertising campaign, refugees are left to languish.”

Policing the migrants Thu, August 4, 2016 As migrants clash with each other in over crowded camps across Europe, we take a look through the hard task of policing the migrant crisis in Europe. Play slideshow EPA 1 of 89 A migrant is carried by the French police as they dismantle a temporary makeshift camp

On October 2, thousands of Hungarians will head to their polling stations next week in a referendum on whether or not the state should accept the EU migrant quota system or reject the plans. It is believed two-thirds of the electorate will vote ‘no’ against the union, keeping immigration policy under control of the Hungarian parliament. Billboards have appeared across Hungary proclaiming that Brussels plans to relocate a city's worth of potential terrorists to the country - which may have a strong influence on voters after a nail bomb exploded in Budapest.

GETTY Others are forced to live in make shift camps at the borders