http://news2.onlinenigeria.com/news/general/536373-pdp%E2%80%99s-protest-over-edo-election-result-off-the-point-%E2%80%93-apc.html
120
12
Home | News | General | PDP’s protest over Edo election result off the point – APC

By SIMON EBEGBULEM

All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State, yesterday, described the protest by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) over the result of the governorship election in the state as completely “off the point and unjustified because its candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, was rejected squarely by the people”.

The Chairman of APC in the state, Chief Ojezua, who addressed journalists in Benin City, accompanied by the Chief of Staff to Edo Governor Hon. Patrick Obahiagbon, described his PDP counterpart, Chief Dan Orbih, and Senator Matthew Urhoghide, as “serial losers”, saying attempts to create the impression by the PDP that the election was rigged will fail.

“First of all, when you want to criticize the election, the first thing you have to do is to look at the process. When INEC brought out the guidelines, they had time and target, and, apart from the postponement, they met with their timing and everything was done in an efficient manner. Right from when materials were taken to the Central Bank till they were returned for the declaration of the result, INEC was efficient in terms of meeting the time lines,”he stated.

“Now, let us say we forgive Orbih, who is a serial failure, but what will you say with Pastor Ize-Iyamu whom I have worked with before? He is a lawyer, he understands the electoral process, he knows when he is beaten and he knows when to accept defeat. So, for him to come up publicly to adopt this process of demonstration, a lawyer who knows the law, that knows that when you have issues with the elections, there is a tribunal to go to rather than street protest”.

Also speaking, Obahiagbon stated that “the decision by the PDP to incontinently orchestrate brigandage and political pandemonium on the streets even after their decision to challenge the Edo governorship election in court shows their lack of fidelity to the rule of law”.

Rate this article 0

CLICK HERE TO READ MORE FROM: General