http://www.dailymail.co.uk/indiahome/indianews/article-3833254/Modi-s-Ramayana-mix-PM-works-epic-poem-tell-story-India-s-modern-day-fight-against-terrorism.html
120
12
Describing India as land of ‘buddh’ (knowledge) and not yudh (war), Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday drew a parallel between Ram’s victory over Ravana with the modern-day fight against terrorism.

Modi told the crowd in Uttar Pradesh: "We are at a point now where those who support terror or allow it cannot go unpunished.”

The PM attended historic Ramleela function at Aishbagh Maidan in Lucknow in a first public address since the surgical strikes inside Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) and sent a message about India’s determination to fight terrorism.

Describing India as land of ‘buddh’ (knowledge) and not yudh (war), PM Narendra Modi drew a parallel between Ram’s victory over Ravana and India's fight against terrorism

Starting and ending his speech with “Jai Sri Ram”, a slogan that had become symbol of BJP’s resurgence, Modi said Ram left behind legacy of humanity and sacrifice and Jatayu, the eagle that tried to stop Sita’s kidnapping, was first to fight against terrorism.

He asked people to remain vigilant against terrorism just like Jatayu. The Prime Minister said India will not spare those who shelter terrorists in a remark seen against Pakistan.

Modi told the crowd: 'We are at a point now where those who support terror or allow it cannot go unpunished'.

"We see visuals of what terrorism is doing to Syria. It brings tears to one’s eyes. It gives us the conviction that there is no guarantee for the safety of humanity without defeating terrorism," he said.

Apart from talking about terrorism, the Prime Minister also focused on equality of women as today (October 11) is also the International Day of the Girl Child.

Hindu gods Laksman, Rama, Sita and Hanuman

"We should collectively work towards an India where there is no discrimination based on gender and where girls get all the opportunities to shine," he said.

The Prime Minister’s symbolism of Ram and the anti-terror operations in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh was meant to deliver a strong political message.

Devotees prepare to immerse an idol of the Hindu goddess Durga in the Yamuna River

"We burn effigy of Ravan every year but what lesson do we take? We should have only one resolve - to finish our social evils and strengthen our will to end all evils,” he said, adding that the Ravan within us must be destroyed.

The Vijaya Dashami celebrations at the historic venue were attended by all the bigwigs of the BJP including Union home minister Rajnath Singh.

Statue of Ravana with eighteen hands and nine heads in a temple in Chennai

Modi performed ‘aarti’ of the characters playing Lord Ram and Sita and was later congratulated by the city mayor Dinesh Sharma, the convener of the 70-year-old Ramlila.

The PM said that it was his good fortune to attend the event at the land that has given Ram and Krishna. Home minister Singh said that Lucknow was “karmabhoomi” of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee.

The PM spoke about 20 minutes and most of his speech was on terrorism but he resorted to only veiled attacks against Pakistan.

"Terrorism is against humanity. The entire world is being destroyed… if you think that we are insulated against terrorism, then we are wrong. It is a virus affecting our societies.

"All forces across the world have to talk in one voice and end it,” he said. This is the first time when a Prime Minister has attended Dussehra outside Delhi.

Prime Minister Modi chose to travel to Lucknow and his visit is being linked to the Assembly elections due in the state early next year.

It is expected that the PM will give a strong message against terrorism.

India united in fight against evil

Giant effigies of 10-headed demon king Ravana were burnt on the Red Fort lawns here on the occasion of Dussehra on Tuesday, marking the triumph of good over evil, as the theme to defeat terrorism and recent surgical strikes by the Indian Army across LoC dominated the celebrations.

The Shri Dharmic Leela Committee’s Ram Lila event was attended by President Pranab Mukherjee, Vice-President Hamid Ansari, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, Congress President Sonia Gandhi, Union Minister Harsh Vardhan and former Lok Sabha Speaker Meira Kumar among others.

This year Prime Minister Narendra Modi did not attend the event here as he participated in Dussehra celebrations in Lucknow in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh.

Congress President Sonia Gandhi performs 'Aarti' of artists enacting Lord Ram and Laxman during Dussehra celebrations

Conveying his wishes, the President sai, "Celebrations bind the communities and regions of India in a true sense of brotherhood and should motivate us to make renewed efforts for the unity and progress of our country."

Mukherjee said he too returned from Birbhum, West Bengal after celebrating Durga Puja there.

The dignitaries also performed aarti before the artistes dressed as Ram and Lakshman, a yearly ritual.

This year Prime Minister Narendra Modi did not attend the event here as he participated in Dussehra celebrations in Lucknow in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh

As a mark of peace, they also released white pigeons in the air. Several posters saluting the army's valour after the surgical strikes were seen at the event.

Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, at a nearby Ramlila celebrations, wished people well on the occasion of Dussehra.

"If we can work together, we can definitely achieve our goals," Kejriwal said, adding, "We will face the evils in society together."

Women initiate the procession by first applying red sindoor