http://www.themalaymailonline.com/malaysia/article/former-minister-raps-don-over-non-sequitur-claims-about-shariah-bill
120
12
Former minister raps don over non sequitur claims about Shariah Bill

Rejecting the assertion by Datuk Prof Mahamad Naser Disa, Datuk Zaid Ibrahim (pic) says there is nothing in PAS president Datuk Seri Abdul Hadi Awang's Bill that is related to the issue of illegitimate children. — Picture by Yusof Mat IsaKUALA LUMPUR, Oct 5 — Claims by the head of an Islamic think-tank that PAS's Shariah Bill will resolve the issue of illegitimate children belies the “Taliban” mentality that is the root of the problem, said a critical Datuk Zaid Ibrahim.

Rejecting the assertion by Institute of Islamic Strategic Research Malaysia (Iksim) chief executive Datuk Prof Mahamad Naser Disa, the former de facto law minister said there was nothing in PAS president Datuk Seri Abdul Hadi Awang's Bill that was related to the illegitimate children.

“What is the connection between the high number of illegitimate children and the powers of the Shariah Court? What is Hadi’s new law going to do about the problem? Send the mothers to jail for 10 years?

“Which provision is he referring to exactly? And is sending the parents to jail for a long period going to solve this problem?” Zaid wrote on his blog today.

The former lawmaker also pointed out the fallacy in claiming causality or correlation when none was proven, noting that even a mandatory death sentence did not eradicate crimes such as drug trafficking.

Zaid then challenged Mahamad Naser to explain why granting the Shariah courts the power to hand down punishments short of the death sentence would reduce cases of premarital sex and children born out of wedlock when even death by hanging could not stop some crimes.

On the specific issue of illegitimate children, the former lawyer noted that Singapore has made notable strides in addressing the matter by educating its citizens on sexual health and reproduction, whereas such subjects were taboo here.

He also took aim at the gender segregation that is practised in Kelantan, which is governed by PAS.

“That’s why in this Taliban country, when young men and women have an opportunity to be together, they do it straightaway — without a condom, without even knowing what a condom looks like. They go after each other without thinking. It’s pure instinct,” he wrote.

“That’s why we have so many illegitimate children. Now do the good professor and PAS understand where the problem lies?”

Zaid further questioned the sincerity of Mahamad Naser's concern over the issue, and asked what the academic has done to help the reported 150,000 children born out of wedlock.

Mahamad Naser told a forum last week that he had proposed to elevate the Shariah Courts (Criminal Jurisdiction) Act 1965 ― also known as Act 355 ― in 2004 when he was a senior officer in the Attorney-General’s Chambers, but was rejected by the Barisan Nasional (BN) government then, mindful of the feelings of non-Muslims.

He expressed gratitude that his proposal has since been taken up by Hadi in Parliament, adding that late PAS spiritual adviser Datuk Haron Din had managed to win over support from key government figures.

Hadi had last month reportedly said he will retable his Private Member’s Bill on Act 355 at the Dewan Rakyat sitting that will start October 17.

The proposed amendment seeks to empower Shariah courts to enforce punishments provided in Shariah laws for Islamic offences listed under the states’ jurisdiction in the Federal Constitution.

Aside from specifying that Shariah courts cannot impose the death penalty, Hadi’s Bill does not elaborate on the nature of or set any limits for the punishments that the Shariah courts will be empowered to impose.