http://indianexpress.com/article/cities/chandigarh/minors-murder-in-hoshiarpur-2005-in-last-ditch-effort-two-on-death-row-to-file-review-plea-in-supreme-court-3067660/
125
12
Supreme Court. (File Photo) Supreme Court. (File Photo)

THE PETITION seeking stay on the execution of two convicts, who are to be hanged October 25 for the kidnap and murder of a 16-year-old Hoshiapur boy, could not be registered in the Supreme Court Wednesday.

The lawyer of the two convicts on death row — Jasvir Singh and Vikram Singh Walia — would move the petition to reopen the review petition they filed in 2011 to get a stay on their execution in Patiala jail. The apex court had then rejected the petition.

Watch What Else Is Making News

The convicts had also sent a mercy petition to the President of India which was rejected in the last week of September.

“We tried to get the petition registered today but could not. We will try again as we have to get it listed before October 25,” said Supreme Court lawyer Balwant Singh Billowria, who is fighting the case of both the convicts, while talking to The Indian Express.

Abhi Verma, a student of class ninth of DAV School, was kidnapped on February 5, 2005 when he was going to school on foot. The kidnappers — Vikram Singh Walia, Jasvir Singh and Jasvir’s wife Sonia — had demanded a ransom of Rs 50 lakh for his release. Abhi’s father Ravi Verma was a goldsmith. Sonia was Abhi’s tutor and Walia also knew Ravi well.

Abhi was given a heavy dose of anesthesia that resulted in his death.

The police had cracked the case swiftly and arrested the three.

The District and Session Judge Hoshiarpur had awarded capital punishment to them in December 2006. The convicts appealed in the Punjab and Haryana High court where the lower court’s verdict was upheld in May 2008.

Later, the three convicts went to the Supreme Court against capital punishment where Walia and Jasvir’s pleas were dismissed while Sonia’ punishment was commuted from death to life sentence in 2010.

The court of Hoshiarpur sessions judge has already issued the death warrant for them for October 25, which has been served on to the superintendent of Patiala jail.

The death warrant reads: “This is to authorise and require to carry the said sentence into execution ..to be hanged by neck until he be dead on 25th day of October 2016 at 9 am in your jail”.

Advocate MP Singh, who is fighting Ravi Verma’s case, said: “The bottom line is that no one could be spared from death penalty till date after the rejection of mercy petition by the President.”