http://www.irishsun.com/index.php/sid/248430489
129
12
Debt troubled Trump Taj Mahal closes its doors

Irish Sun Tuesday 11th October, 2016

• No path to profitability, says Trump Taj Mahal owner Carl John

• Atlantic City to lose two more casinos since 2014

• Trump Taj Mahal didn’t stand by his superior reputation, says Trump

WASHINGTON, U.S. - Trump Taj Mahal Hotel and Casino, which no longer belongs to the Republican Presidential nominee Donald Trump apart from the name finally closed its doors to the public on Monday at 5.59 am in Atlantic City, New Jersey, according to the official website.

Trump acquired the casino in 1988 but soon failed and filed for bankruptcy in 1991. After a long battle with the union workers, who were denied their healthcare and pension benefits, the owner Carl Icahn decided to put an end to the property claiming that there was “no path to profitability.”

With nearly 3,000 workers losing their jobs, Bob McDevitt, president of Local 54 of the Unite-HERE union said, “For the first time in 30 years, workers stood up to Carl Icahn and made him throw in the towel.”

Icahn, however, claimed that he could not reach an agreement with the union workers who went on strike on July 1. The union which represented 1,000 of Taj’s staff reached an agreement with four other casinos in the city but failed to strike a deal over Taj.

Icahn said, “Despite our best efforts, which included losing almost $350 million over just a few short years, we were unable to save the Taj Mahal.”

According to New Jersey Division of Gaming Enforcement reports, following Taj’s opening in 1990 it faced financial strain immediately. With less than $0 in its bank account, it fell into deficit of over $1.7 million. The state approved a bailout of $65 million with fears of closing it would affect city economy. But Taj could not survive and filed for bankruptcy following year.

Yet, Taj continued to struggle with debt payments under new owners and posted a net loss of $121 million between 1992 and 1995. In 2004 and 2009, twice Taj filed for bankruptcy. By the 2004, Trump left his CEO position. However, he continued to lend his name to the casino and eventually he sued Taj and Trump Plaza claiming that they had been allowed “to fall into an utter state of disrepair” and were not worthy of his “superior reputation” anymore.

In 2014, Trump said, “We have a very high standard and they didn't meet it.”

“I felt they should have been able to make a deal. It’s hard to believe they weren’t able to make a deal,” Trump recently commented on the fallout of the agreement between the owner and union.

Since 2014, five other casinos have been closed in Atlantic City including another one of Trump’s property, Trump Plaza.

Out of the remaining seven other casinos in the city, Bally’s and Caesar’s, have already filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection exposing Atlantic City’s economic skeleton to the world.