http://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-3831930/Has-Georgia-Love-seen-Bachelorette-runner-Lee-Elliott-shows-ripped-physique-pair-budgie-smugglers-attending-backyard-party.html
120
12
He's the mechanical plumber whose dreamy good looks have swept Georgia Love off her feet.

And Lee Elliott proves he isn't shy about showing off his physique, as he's seen enjoying a backyard party in nothing but a pair of Speedos.

In an Instagram snap uploaded by the 35-year-old's friend, the Sydney-sider was one of two scantily-clad blokes in a crowd of people.

Scroll down for video

Flaunt it: The Bachelorette's Lee Elliott isn't shy about showing off his ripped physique, stripping down to his Speedos at a party recently in an image posted to Instagram by a friend

Holding a can of beer in one hand, the reality TV star put on a muscular display as he rocked the rainbow polka dotted swimming trunks.

The hunk's revealing outfit of choice made one particular party-goer blush and cover her eyes with her hand as she walked past.

His sculpted abs and bulging biceps were accentuated by the golden tan he was also sporting.

What would Georgia say? The 35-year-old hunk is still in the running to win the 28-year-old Bachelorette's heart

Meanwhile, a pair of sunglasses and a bulky watch completed the Bachelorette star's look.

On screen, Lee is still in the running to win Georgia's heart along with nine other eligible bachelors.

The confident contestant has already won a single date with the Hobart native, as well as a steamy kiss.

Swept away: Georgia has admitted she's smitten by the mechanical plumber's good looks during their one-on-one date

Sparks fly: The pair locked lips in a passionate kiss by the beach campfire, with Georgia gushing about how she felt afterwards

Sitting down for a romantic beach-side picnic, the genetically-blessed pair shared an intense smooch by the warmth of the campfire.

Clearly content with the smooch, Georgia gushed in her piece-to-camera: 'He finally kissed me.'

'I've been waiting all day for this moment. I thought it wasn't gonna happen! And I'm so glad it did. Definite fireworks and sparks. I know 100% that this is not where I want to see it end with Lee.'