http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/back-future-super-fans-ride-6678122
20
2
This pair of Back to the Future fans will have no excuse to forget their wedding anniversary.

Jordan Gillard, 26 and Sally Evans, 24, from Wales chose today, Wednesday 21 October 2015 to tie the knot in tribute to the second installment of the adventures of Marty McFly and Dr Emmett Brown.

After Jordan got down on one knee and proposed last year they knew a themed wedding would be on the cards, with a DeLorean at its heart, Wales Online reports.

Sally said: “Jordan and I have been together for around 10 years and we’d always talked about having a Back to the Future themed wedding. So when he proposed we knew we’d stick to the idea.

Media Wales Tribute: Sally Evans arrives for the wedding in a vintage Buik

“We’re kind of ‘mega nerds’ about the film, so when we knew Back to the Future Day was coming up this year we planned everything around that.”

The couple started the plans earlier this year by sending out invitations, which were in the form of a letter that Marty wrote to Doc in the film.

Media Wales Authentic: The DeLorean was at the centre of the wedding

“We’d been planning it for a while and we had lots of bits and pieces to go with the theme,” Sally said.

“Our table plans were organised around different places Marty and Doc visited in ‘2015’, we also have a ‘Hill Valley’ sign we painted ourselves to go outside the venue and the ceremony music was the orchestral version of the sound track.”

Media Wales Reference: Best man Liam Stacey had his very own hover board

Sally arrived at the wedding, which was held at De Courceys Manor in Pentyrch, in a Buick, a car which was used in the film, while Jordan ‘time travelled’ to the venue in a DeLorean.

“Jordan arrived in a DeLorean. It’s obviously not the real one but it’s around six model numbers away from it and was made around an hour and a half after the one in the film. I arrived in a 1942 Buick, another car which features in the film.”

Traditional: The pair did not go for authentic costumes

But despite the theme, Sally settled on a more traditional dress to walk down the aisle.

“My dress wasn’t themed because I didn’t want to go too far. It was our wedding after all. It was a bit different but not fancy dress,” she said.

Media Wales Homage: The first dance was Back to the Future themed

The couple celebrated tying the knot in their evening party which was based on the Enchantment Under The Sea dance from the film.

“We had blue balloons, sea creature confetti, a band, because a band was used in the film and our first dance was to Earth Angel, the song which Marty played in the dance.

“Everyone was really excited, especially our little boy who is only one-year-old. Not everyone is a fan of the film, but they all made the effort to come, even my Aunt from America.”