http://www.politico.com/tipsheets/morning-education/2016/10/chicago-cuts-it-close-but-teachers-strike-is-averted-216791
120
12
Chicago cuts it close, but teachers’ strike is averted

With help from Mel Leonor, Kimberly Hefling and Benjamin Wermund

DEAL REACHED, STRIKE AVERTED: Negotiations that went down to the wire on Monday night yielded a tentative contract agreement between the Chicago Board of Education and the Chicago Teachers Union, averting a teachers’ strike in the nation's third-largest school district. Last-minute concessions capped hours of tense negotiations — just when it seemed that a 22-month contract dispute would give way to what would have been the second teachers' strike in five years in the Windy City and the second under Mayor Rahm Emanuel.

Story Continued Below

— The deal still needs the approval of roughly 800 union delegates. It is “not a perfect agreement,” as CTU President Karen Lewis phrased it, but it proved palatable enough on key issues to satisfy both sides. Contributions to teachers’ pensions, a sticking point since a January proposal suggested they be phased out, will remain in place, while new hires will not enjoy that benefit. (Right now, CPS covers 7 percent of the 9 percent of annual salary that teachers contribute to their pension fund, a benefit that goes back to the early 1980s and has ballooned in cost for the cash-strapped system.) The tentative agreement spans four school years — last year, the present and the next two. It also includes raises for teachers, including cost of living adjustments during the contract’s last two years, as well as a commitment from CPS governing class sizes in kindergarten through second-grade. “We are very pleased that we were able to come to this tentative agreement,” Lewis said during a brief press conference that was livestreamed over Twitter. “There will be classes in the morning.”

— Late-night tweets leading up to the deal trumpeted complaints that many teachers and parents would have to go to bed uncertain about what would be in store for them in the morning. The first tangible sign that a deal was imminent came two hours before the midnight deadline, when Lewis announced CTU had printed copies of a new proposal sent to them “less than two hours” earlier that looked “significantly better” than a January proposal that union members rejected. “The good news is actually great news, students will be where they are supposed to be,” Board of Education president Frank Clark said afterward.

— Though members from both sides bore smiles early Tuesday, a deal doesn’t end CPS’s financial woes. Its teachers’ retirement fund is short roughly $9 billion and the school system owes more than $6 billion to its bondholders. And the mayor’s office did not say how the additional resources agreed upon late Monday would be funded — specifically, how much from the city’s 146 tax increment financing districts would be pumped into CPS. During CTU’s press conference, Lewis said she had no information on that point beyond “rumors.” During a separate press conference, Emanuel said CPS’s finances would be on “firmer ground because of this agreement,” but refused to answer questions from reporters before walking out.

GOOD TUESDAY MORNING. WELCOME TO MORNING EDUCATION. I’m pretty sure I’ve read just about every wonderful detail about Ken Bone that’s been written, but in case you’re in need of a round-up, check out this piece. Drop me a line: mstratford@politico.com or @mstratford. Share event listings: educalendar@politicopro.com. And follow us on Twitter: @Morning_Edu and @POLITICOPro.

TALKING STUDENT DEBT, WITH THE FED: When it comes to the topic of college affordability, the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco is striving to be approachable. It runs a podcast called Does College Matter?, and a calculator on its site helps users explore how many years it will take a borrower to “break even” on paying off student debt relative to career salary. And Mary Daly, a senior vice president and associate director of research at the San Francisco Fed, does regular talks with high school students, their parents and teachers, to discuss making “practical decisions” when it comes to selecting a college.

— Daly’s advice? One doesn’t need to attend a Top 10 college to be successful. In fact, she tells Morning Education that it might be unwise, for example, for someone who wants to be a high school teacher in rural Minnesota to take on a lot of debt to go to a college like Harvard, despite its cachet. A teaching “degree from another college that’s less expensive would probably be just as valuable as a degree from Harvard, and you don’t get out of there” with a mountain of debt to climb, Daly said. She added: “Pick a college that’s going to give you a degree that allows you to do that, but also isn’t going to have you paying off so much student loan debt that you can’t buy a house, buy a car, have a family, those other kinds of things.”

— “If you want to be a high school teacher, don’t go to the most expensive school,” Daly said. As Americans debate the nation’s $1.2 trillion in collective student debt, Daly said she worries that discussions over the value of a college degree are getting lost in the mix. She points to research that shows the “break even” time period to pay off a degree has remained fairly consistent since the 1980s. “That’s what we should really be talking to students about, kids about, and even to adults about. If we’re going to invest in our future, we need kids to go to college — and it’s a good investment.” When one has student loan payments, “you’re investing in something; that thing happens to be yourself,” she said.

TRUMP SURROGATE NOW HBCU SPOKESMAN: Paris Dennard, a longtime Republican strategist and backer of Donald Trump who regularly defends the GOP nominee on cable news networks, is the new spokesman for the Thurgood Marshall College Fund, which represents the nation’s 47 public and publicly supported Historically Black Colleges and Universities. Trump is deeply unpopular with black voters, and that view is shared by many in the TMCF, making Dennard something of an outsider — but that’s exactly why he got the job, said the group’s CEO, Johnny Taylor Jr.

— “It’s not popular at times, but it’s really compelling,” Taylor told Morning Ed. “People talk lightly about diversity … diversity is largely thought of as what the white community needs to do for other people. The idea that we should be reaching out to other communities, politically, on all the various dimensions of diversity, is really compelling. And he gives us that. ... What this allows me to do is to have that voice in the room to pull us back.”

— Dennard is used to making difficult arguments: He was director of black outreach for the Bush White House after Hurricane Katrina, a period that led Kanye West to declare: “George Bush doesn’t care about black people.” But Dennard, who has been at TMCF for more than a year, working previously in the group’s government affairs wing, says his work on behalf of the black community speaks for itself.

— “A lot of people will see me on TV or hear me on the radio and they make crazy assumptions about who I am and my blackness and my commitment to the community,” Dennard told Morning Ed. “Every morning I wake up and go work to fight for HBCUs. That’s what I do for my community.” While at the TMCF, Dennard has organized meetings with representatives for both the Trump and Clinton campaigns. He also pushed for HBCU-supportive language to be included in the RNC and DNC platforms, he said.

— Taylor, who has been controversial at times in his post as TMCF head, sat down with Pro Education recently, and said the only improvement in the rocky relationship between the Obama administration and Historically Black Colleges and Universities is that it is coming to an end. Read more here.

OBAMA TAKES HBCU FOCUS TODAY: President Barack Obama is heading to North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State University today to discuss his administration’s My Brother’s Keeper initiative as well as “the role and legacy of Historically Black Colleges and Universities.” Obama will participate in a student forum on the campus, hosted by ESPN.

KING WORRIES ABOUT ‘PROBLEMATIC’ POLITICAL CLIMATE: Education Secretary John B. King Jr. said he is concerned about the effects the current political atmosphere may have on Muslim and immigrant students. “There’s a climate around Muslim students that is worrisome, a climate around immigrant students that is also worrisome,” King told Morning Education on Monday when asked about the so-called “Trump effect” that Hillary Clinton brought up in Sunday’s debate — which some education groups say is a rise in bullying incidents linked to Trump’s rhetoric.

— “We’ve had a longstanding effort to reduce bullying, but I do worry there’s an atmosphere, particularly around the Islamophobia, and also around immigrant students, that is problematic,” King told Morning Ed. The Education Department under King has targeted Islamophobia in classrooms specifically, announcing earlier this year that it would more aggressively track incidents of bullying based on religion. The department’s Office for Civil Rights also launched an updated website with information on religious discrimination, including information on how to file federal complaints about discrimination.

‘PEOPLE NEED TO BE VERY CAREFUL’ WITH ENDOWMENTS: As massive university endowments have faced congressional scrutiny in recent months, Bruce Zimmerman, who just stepped down as head of the third-largest university endowment in the nation, said he frets that “the easiest political answer” is to dip too far into the savings funds. “When you’re doing that, you’re just taking money away from future generations,” said Zimmerman, who had overseen the shared endowments of the University of Texas and Texas A&M systems since 2007 and announced his resignation on Monday. Zimmerman told Morning Ed it was “just time” for him to move on, adding that his departure was “very mutual.”

— “There will always be more of a demand than a supply,” said Zimmerman, who was CEO of the University of Texas Investment Management Co., the entity that manages the Texas endowments, which are worth nearly $37 billion combined. The massive fund is exceeded in value only by those of Harvard and Yale. “I just think people need to be very careful with how they approach these precious resources,” Zimmerman said. During his tenure, the fund grew by more than $4 billion. The company’s board will appoint an interim head and launch a national search for Zimmerman's permanent replacement. Benjamin Wermund has more.

REPORT ROLL CALL

— Bellwether Education Partners is out with a new report today that examines the use of personalized learning in rural schools.

— The Data Quality Campaign releases recommendations for states as they implement the Every Student Succeeds Act.

SYLLABUS

— Group representing Christian colleges tries new approach to how its members must view gay marriage: Inside Higher Ed.

— Amity University, a system of private colleges based in New Delhi, is pushing for a foothold in the United States: The Associated Press.

— One of South Africa’s top universities descends into violence as police clash with student demonstrators seeking free education: The Associated Press.

— Homeless students in New York City’s public schools present a growing crisis: The New York Times.

— University of Phoenix opens a new community education offering that it calls an “Apple store for education”: Las Vegas Review-Journal.

Classic. Follow the Pro Education team: @caitlinzemma (cemma@politico.com), @khefling (khefling@politico.com), @mstratford (mstratford@politico.com), @mrmikevasquez (mvasquez@politico.com) and @BenjaminEW (bwermund@politico.com).



** Presented by The 74: THE FOUNDERS — INSIDE THE REVOLUTION TO INVENT (AND REINVENT) AMERICA’S BEST CHARTER SCHOOLS, published by The 74: Author Richard Whitmire traveled the country for two years, visiting America’s most successful schools and meeting their founders. The more he spoke with them, the more he heard about how these early leaders found themselves in unlikely collaboration across the country, sharing strategies they'd invented, best practices that had begun to boost a generation of students, and the lessons learned, impacting future generations to come.

Whitmire’s profile of the founders and their schools is now available for download at The74.org/TheFounders. You’ll also find a series of documentaries and an extensive oral history archive featuring legendary charter founders recounting how they came to rethink the way America was teaching kids — many of them poor and minority children. Read the story and see the videos: The74.org/TheFounders **