http://www.express.co.uk/news/uk/706781/Sturgeon-s-Indy-supporters-launch-Scot-currency-but-value-is-less-than-ZIMBABWEAN-DOLLAR
20
2
GETTY It costs 1000 Scotcoins to buy a loaf of bread

But in a sign of things to come if Nicola Sturgeon realises her independence dream, their Scotcoin is worth less than ZERO in comparison to the pound and would make the price of everyday items skyrocket. The currency is currently worth less than the crisis-hit Zimbabwean dollar, with 1,000 Scotcoins equalling just 86p. Linked to the digital bitcoin market, £1 would cost approximately 1,175 Scotcoins. Currently 481 Zimbabwean dollars equals one British pound.

GETTY Independence supporters have launched the Scotcoin

I am absolutely in favour of experimenting George Kerevan

The Scotcoin operators say: "There are one billion Scotcoins in existence. "Unlike traditional currencies such as the British Pound or US Dollar where governments or central banks control the money supply, the number of Scotcoin is fixed, so as demand for Scotcoin rises, the value of each coin will rise." If the bizarre idea to flush the Scottish economy with the financial instrument came to fruition, its value is currently so low it could plunge the country into economic chaos.

Getty At the moment the Scotcoin isn't worth too much

But that didn't stop the Scottish National Party’s George Kerevan calling for the country to experiment with digital currency last year. The MP for East Lothian said a bitcoin-like currency could help overcome Scotland's reliance on the pound. Mr Kerevan, who also serves on the House of Commons Treasury Select Committee, made the comments during an event at the SNP conference in Aberdeen. He later told Buzzfeed: “I am absolutely in favour of experimenting. “If you wish to persuade people there are alternatives to using sterling, one way of doing that, rather than having an intellectual debate, is to show people.” The moves to create a Scottish currency come off the back of Ms Sturgeon's plans to market a stand-alone Scottish currency pegged to the UK.

GETTY Ms Sturgeon has high hopes for economic independence but her dreams are questionable say sources

Nationalist politicians in power at Holyrood are hoping that somehow they may be able to create a central bank irrespective of the damage done to Scotland's economy in the last decade. Edinburgh was ranked 15th in the list of world financial centres in 2007, but fell to 37th in 2012 and in 2015 was ranked 71st, according to the The Global Financial Centres Index. Any moves would require the country to sell off large swathes of Government assets to bankroll their strategy. Separating from Britain would also see Scotland inheriting a proportion of Britain's overall debt meaning the nation would have to make massive cuts to every public service.

If the nation became independent, Scotland would have to find £33bn to run the country as it currently does under the Barnett Formula. That formula is the system of grants which dictates the level of public spending in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. Under it, extra funding - or cuts - from Westminster are allocated according to the population size of each nation and which powers are devolved to them but would be scrapped if Scotland broke away. The SNP has been told on numerous occasions that the UK Government would not allow an independent Scotland to share the pound. The party led by Nicola Sturgeon has repeatedly and wilfully ignored the advice given to them.

Despite seemingly unsurmountable challenges they are determined to gain independence for the country - even against the will of the democratic vote. Now the Scottish Conservatives have warned that Ms Sturgeon's new plan announced today could lead the country to failure. Finance spokesman Murdo Fraser MSP said: “Supporters of independence have got themselves into a complete mess over the currency question, and the ScotCoin looks like it is another in a long list of failed ideas. “The simple solution is to stick with the pound by keeping Scotland within the United Kingdom, which is what most Scots want.”