http://www.dailynews.lk/?q=2016/09/07/political/92546
125
12
PM reassures security to MR

Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe yesterday in Parliament reassured adequate security to former President Mahinda Rajapaksa.

The Prime Minister, replying to a question raised by MEP Leader Dinesh Gunawardena under Standing Order 23 (2), said the government has paid special attention to the security of former President Rajapaksa in and outside the country.

“We will not let him be harmed. He is a person who should be in active politics. I have no issue at all about it,” the Prime Minister said.

He said the Foreign Affairs Ministry gave all facilities to former President Rajapaksa when undertaking foreign visits, including vehicles to travel.

“It is the government's responsibility to provide assistance to MPs, Ministers and even former Presidents when they make foreign visits. This equally applies to former President Chandrika Kumaratunaga,” he said.

The Prime Minister, however, said it was up to the host country to provide adequate security to diplomatic missions.

“This is common even to the President and me. We can take several security guards, but they are not allowed to carry weapons. The practice is to ask the security from the host country,” he said.

The Prime Minister said the government was looking into the pro-LTTE groups in Malaysia, adding that it had close connections with Kumaran Pathmanathan (KP).

“It is with him the previous government had entered into agreements,” he said.

The Prime Minister reminding that yesterday marked the 70th Anniversary of the UNP, said UNP Founder D. S. Senanayake emphasised the need to build up the Sri Lankan identity keeping aside Sinhala, Tamil and Muslim differences.

“That is what we are trying to do. We will solve this problem forever with the support of all parties,” he said.

The Prime Minister said former President Rajapaksa participated in the International Conference of the Asian Political Parties (ICAPP) held in Malaysia representing the SLFP.

The ICAPP did not recognise any group from the Joint Opposition, but the SLFP. Representing the UNP, Minister Daya Gamage and Deputy Minister Anoma Gamage participated. MP Dinesh Gunawardena participated representing the Mahajana Eksath Peramuna. Rajapaksa thought this conference was more important than the SLFP convention and went to Kuala Lumpur. If they attended representing the Joint Opposition, they would not have been recognised. They might also have to stay outside along with those who were protesting on the street, he said.

The Former President was a former Chairman to the ICAPP. He attended it representing the SLFP, he said.

"We do not criticise it. Even the President had no objection,” said the Prime Minister.

The Prime Minister before making a reply to MP Gunawardena also asked former President Rajapaksa who was present in the chamber to express his concerns too, but he declined it and signalled that he did not not wish to speak.

‘Accused should be prosecuted here’

Opposition Leader R. Sampanthan condemned the protest against former president Mahinda Rajapaksa during his visit to Malaysia to attend the International Conference of the Asia Pacific Parliament Members Union (ICAPPMU) and the assault on Sri Lanka's High Commissioner to Malaysia Ibrahim Ansar.

He said the government should take action against the offenders. Such incidents should be discouraged and terminated ensuring the stability in the country, he said.

He made these observations in Parliament yesterday during the debate that followed the special statement by Joint Opposition member Dinesh Gunawardena under standing order 23 (2) querying the measures taken in connection with the recent incidents in Malaysia.

Sampanthan said he unreservedly condemned the incident.

“Stringent action should be taken against the offenders, if they are Sri Lankan citizens,” the Opposition Leader said.

“If they are not Sri Lankan citizens, they should get extradited to Sri Lanka and be charged against them here,”he said.

He said at a time the country is marching towards stability and harmony, such incidents were unwarranted. He said the people who do these foolish actions would not realise the consequences of such actions. Such people do not realise that they are playing into the hands of those who do not want stability in Sri Lanka. Stringent action should be taken against the offenders, Sampanthan said.

Malaysian protesters’ motive doesn’t reflect Northern people’s voice: Anura Kumara

The voice of the protesters in Malaysia that staged the protest during the visit of former President Mahinda Rajapaksa and other members to attend the International Conference of the Asia Pacific Parliament Members Union (ICAPPMU) does not represent the voice of the people in the North, said Chief Opposition Whip and Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna Leader Anura Kumara Dissanayake.

He made this observation in Parliament yesterday during the debate that followed the special statement by Joint Opposition member Dinesh Gunawardena under standing order 23 (2).

MP Dissnayake said the diaspora demanded the people in the North during the last elections to boycott it. However the Northern people did not respond to them and did otherwise at the elections.

He said the protesters in Malaysia were not Sri Lankans. “If the voice of the people of the North tallied with the voice of the diaspora and the extremists, we would face a problem,” MP Dissanayake said.

Due to this reason, Parliament as a whole should condemn these incidents, he said. Dissanayake said the assault on Sri Lanka’s High Commissioner to Malaysia Ibrahim Ansar should be condemned as he was representing Sri Lanka.

“The Malaysian government has failed to reciprocate by providing security to representatives of Sri Lanka as we had done to them,” he said.

Dinesh queries govt. action on Malaysian protestors and attackers

Joint Opposition Member and Mahajana Eksath Peramuna (MEP) Leader Dinesh Gunawardena yesterday inquired as to what steps the government has taken in connection with the incident of a fierce protest against former President Mahinda Rajapaksa during his visit to Malaysia to attend the International Conference of the Asia Pacific Parliament Members Union (ICAPPMU) and the assault on Sri Lanka’s High Commissioner to Malaysia Ibrahim Ansar.

He made this query in Parliament making a special statement under standing order 23 (2) yesterday.

He queried as to why the government was silent on the assault on the chief monk of the Sri Lankan Buddhist temple in Sentul, Malaysia by the protesters after querying him on the arrival of former President Mahinda Rajapaksa.

“This incident has a serious impact on the dignity of the country” said MP Gunawardena.

“The protesters also came to the Airport asking for Mahinda Rajapaksa. This was carried out by some people who have connections with the LTTE.”

He questioned if the security of Mahinda Rajapaksa be increased and change the policy of the government in this connection.

Govt. to prevent recurrence of incidents that happened in Malaysia

The government would not allow to recur such incident that took place in Malaysia during the visit of former President Mahinda Rajapaksa, some other MPs and the incident faced by the Sri Lankan High Commissioner to Malaysia, said Parliamentary Affairs and Mass Media Minister Gayantha Karunathilake yesterday. He said a party that enabled all the communities to live together harmoniously is in power. It was established 70 years on a day like yesterday. He said on such an occasion, the government ensures that such incidents would not be allowed to be repeated.

He made these observations in Parliament yesterday during the debate that followed the special statement by Joint Opposition member Dinesh Gunawardena under standing order 23 (2) querying the measures taken in connection with the recent incidents in Malaysia.

Sagala skips question on ISIS on national security ground

Law and Order Minister Sagala Rathnayake in Parliament yesterday declined to respond to a question on ISIS links in Sri Lanka on the ground of national security and public safety.

The order paper contained a question from MP Dullas Alahapperuma asking whether it is true that Sri Lankans have joined the organisation called the ISIS, which spreads terrorism for a World Islamic State.

The minister when asked to table the answer as MP Alahapperuma was not present in the House, said he seeks the approval of the Chair to refrain from replying. However, he said if MP Alahapperuma or any other MP wishes to have more information pertaining to what was in the question, he was happy to speak to them outside the House.

The MP in the question had asked how many Sri Lankans have been revealed to be fighting for the ISIS and whether there are persons who have been found to have died fighting in this way.

He asked whether it is true that the ISIS has envisaged Sri Lanka as a battleground of theirs for 2020, according to the plans prepared on their expansion.

He asked what instructions have been provided by the state intelligence sections to counter the spread of ISIS terrorism in Sri Lanka and whether any political party, organisation or a non-governmental organisation in Sri Lanka maintains links with the ISIS.

Kiriella reminds of attack on Chris Nonis

Leader of the House Minister Lakshman Kiriella yesterday queried as to what steps did the previous government take when Sri Lankan High Commissioner to the United Kingdom Chris Nonis was assaulted in the UK.

He made this query from the Joint Opposition side members during the discussion that followed the special statement by Joint Opposition Member Dinesh Gunawardena under standing order 23 (2). “Lankan diplomat Chris Nonis was assaulted in London. What did your government do then?” queried Minister Kiriella.

MP Dinesh Gunawardena said he raised an important question seeking response from the Prime Minister. “The problem between Sajin Vass and Nonis occurred in a dinner after consuming various things,” said MP Dinesh Gunawardena. “You cannot compare it with this incident. The other matter is that he is an SLFP organiser who is with the government,” he said.

Malaysian HC regrets over assault on Lankan HC: Harsha

Foreign Affairs Deputy Minister Harsha de Silva said the Malaysian High Commissioner to Sri Lanka expressed his regret over the assault on the Sri Lankan High Commissioner to Malaysia.

The Deputy Minister said the biggest damage was caused to the Sri Lankan High Commissioner to Malaysia who is employed by the Foreign Ministry.

He said the Foreign Ministry took measures to have a meeting with the Malaysian High Commissioner to Sri Lanka and discussed the matter. He said the High Commissioner deeply regretted over the incident.

The Deputy Minister said the Malaysian High Commissioner assured on behalf of the Malaysian government that such a situation would no be repeated.

Deputy Minister de Silva made these observations in Parliament yesterday, expressing his views on the special statement by Joint Opposition Member Dinesh Gunawardena under standing order 23(2).

Bandula asks Finance Ministry to settle revenue collection issue through dialogue

UPFA MP Bandula Gunawardena in Parliament yesterday asked the Finance Ministry to initiate a dialogue with the Trade Unions of the Inland Revenue Department to resolve matters over revenue collection.

The MP raising supplementary questions directed the attention of the House to the fact that Inland Revenue Department officers went on sick leave on Monday to register their objection over moves to hand over revenue collection to a foreign company.

The MP asked the Finance Ministry to consider the practical aspects when imposing new taxes, pointing out that the government has been unable to reach the predicted revenue targets due to impractical budgetary proposals.

Chief Government Whip and Minister Gayantha Karunathilake, who replied to MP Gunawardena in the absence of Finance Minister Ravi Karunanayake, said the questions raised would be brought to the attention of the subject minister.

The minister reading out the Finance Ministry reply to a question on the Mansion Tax, said the government had received no income from the tax proposed in the interim Budget of 2015 and the Budget 2016.

“The tax was proposed to be levied on the owners of houses and buildings constructed on or after April 1, 2000 for residential purposes of which the floor area is not less than 10,000 square feet, or the value of such building as at the first day of April of any relevant year is not less than Rs. 150 million. However, it could not be implemented as several more Amendments to it were proposed to add more exemptions. The Bill has not yet been finalised with the Amendments,” the minister said.

JVP berates govt. for outsourcing tax collection to Hong Kong company

The Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (JVP) accused the government stating that it has signed an agreement with Hong Kong McKenzie Company Ltd to outsource tax collection.

JVP MP Vijitha Herath said in Parliament that the fees to be paid to the company has been agreed upon.

He made these observations joining the debate under the regulations under the Industrial Disputes Act yesterday.

He said the government had not learnt a lesson from the privatisation of estate companies.

It had gone further into privatise tax collection.

He said the privatisation of estate companies had resulted in a delay in signing collective agreements with the unions.

“It has been almost two yeas since signing of the collective agreements,” said JVP MP Vijitha Hearth. “Such collective agreements are usually signed once in two years,” he said.

Feasibility study by AAI to develop Palali airport

The government has given consent to the Airport Authority of India (AAI) to carry out a feasibility study to develop the Palali airport, Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe said in Parliament yesterday.

He made this observation replying to a question by MP Bimal Rathnayake.

The Prime Minister observing that the Cabinet approval is not necessary to obtain a feasibility report, said the decision was taken with the approval of the relevant ministry.

MP Bimal Rathnayake asked whether an agreement was signed between the Sri Lankan government and the Indian government or an Indian company to modernise the Palali airport and whether open tender procedure had been followed in giving the contract to the Indian Company.

National Policies and Economic Affairs Deputy Minister Niroshan Perera replying to the question said there has been no such agreement, adding that only a feasibility study had been carried out.

“We need to inform them our requirements on the project. If the Palali airport is to be developed the adjacent lands have to be taken over. It requires a large sum of money. We have not decided to proceed on this venture,” he said.

‘UN chief’s remarks do not affect country’s sovereignty’

President Maithripala Sirisena has pledged that a hybrid court comprising foreign judges would not be established to hear alleged war crimes in Sri Lanka, said Skills Development and Vocational Training Minister Mahinda Samarasinghe yesterday.

He said the President has assured that he would not betray War Heroes during his tenure as the President. He said the President’s stance is to build up strong reconciliation in the country.

He made these observations in response to an adjournment motion moved by Joint Opposition member Dinesh Gunawardena in Parliament yesterday, demanding the government to reveal its stance on a statement made by UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon. Minister Samarasinghe said the President has expressed the government’s stance. He said the UN Secretary General too has expressed his stance saying that reconciliation cannot be built up overnight. The minister said there is nothing in addition to their stances published even in the UN website. He requested the Joint Opposition not to make these things political slogans.

“This government is coping up with the international communities well. We request you not to disrupt it,” said Minister Samarasinghe. “The image of the country was damaged by what our politicians did When Ban ki-moon and Navaneethan Pillei came to Sri Lanka on previous occasions. We can’t fool the United Nations,” he said. The minister said the government works according to a national policy. He said the government would not betray War Heroes.

Joining the adjournment debate, acting Foreign Affairs Minister Harsha de Silva said the government has proved that it attempts to ensure rights of all the people equally. The UN Secretary General has appreciated the government’s efforts to bring about reconciliation comparing with the previous government’s. He said there’s much more to achieve. He said the UN Secretary General commended the efforts of the government as constructive. He said the remarks by him did not affect the sovereignty of the country.