http://www.politico.com/tipsheets/massachusetts-playbook/2016/09/offshore-wind-announcement-today-warren-already-battling-clinton-over-admin-hires-primary-day-endorsement-watch-216155
120
12
OFFSHORE WIND announcement today -- WARREN already battling CLINTON over admin hires -- PRIMARY DAY endorsement watch

By Lauren Dezenski ( ldezenski@politico.com ; @laurendezenski)

GOOD MORNING, MASSACHUSETTS. Welcome back from Labor Day weekend and welcome to September. Don’t forget the umbrella today -- rain continues on and off all day.

Story Continued Below

TODAY -- Gov. Charlie Baker makes an announcement about offshore wind energy alongside Energy and Environmental Affairs Secretary Matthew Beaton, US Rep. Bill Keating, and Massachusetts Clean Energy Center Interim CEO Stephen Pike in New Bedford. Baker then boards a DONG wind research vehicle for a tour -- MassDOT holds a public meeting on the proposed new tolling rates in Worcester -- The Yes on 3 ballot question organization holds kickoff meetings in Waltham and Pittsfield tonight.

62 DAYS UNTIL THE GENERAL AND GARJO IS GAINING -- “Despite Donald Trump’s missteps, Hillary Clinton’s lead static,” by Joe Battenfeld, Boston Herald: “Democrat Hillary Clinton has failed to take advantage of the squalls surrounding GOP rival Donald Trump and heads into the fall campaign with a tenuous lead and strong voter doubts about her trustworthiness, a new Franklin Pierce University/Boston Herald poll reveals.” …

“Clinton clings to a 3-point lead — 44 to 41 percent — unchanged from a Franklin Pierce/Herald poll nearly two months ago. Libertarian Gary Johnson is drawing 8 percent while Green Party candidate Jill Stein follows with 3 percent, according to the poll of 1,025 likely voters nationwide.” …

“The Franklin Pierce/Herald poll also shows that Clinton and Trump continue to be viewed negatively by historically high numbers of likely voters — 55 percent for the Democratic nominee and 57 percent for her GOP opponent. Less than 30 percent of both Clinton’s and Trump’s supporters say they are ‘very excited’ about voting for them.” READ ON -- http://bit.ly/2c96jii

FRANKLIN PIERCE/BOSTON HERALD POLL TOPLINES -- http://bit.ly/2c93pdw

Have a tip, story, suggestion, birthday, anniversary, new job, or any other nugget for the Playbook? Did the wrong Playbook get sent out? Get in touch: ldezenski@politico.com.

WHEN WARREN IS (OR ISN’T) ON YOUR SIDE -- “For Warren and her allies, a fight over Clinton’s hires,” by Patrick Temple-West, POLITICO: “Warren’s coalition is developing a hit list of the types of people they’ll oppose — what one source called ‘hell no’ appointments — in a Clinton administration. They’re vowing to fight nominees with ties to big banks, and warn against corporate executives assuming government roles in regulating the industries that made them rich. Warren has a mantra — ‘personnel is policy’ — and behind the scenes, Warren, her allies and a left-leaning think tank affiliated with her have fanned out to try to influence the Clinton hiring process long before the election results come in.” http://politi.co/2c93Y78

QUESTIONS FOR WARREN ON QUESTION 2 -- “Elizabeth Warren still undecided on lifting charter school cap,” by Matt Stout, Boston Herald: “The state’s senior U.S. senator, progressive darling Elizabeth Warren, yesterday said she is still undecided about the major labor issue looming over the Bay State this fall: the ballot question lifting the cap on the number of charter schools statewide — a petition that has drawn fervent opposition from unions and teacher associations.” http://bit.ly/2c9542T

ENDORSEMENT WATCH AHEAD OF THE THURSDAY PRIMARIES:

-- For the Gloria Fox seat: “Monica Cannon for 7th Suffolk,” by the Boston Globe Editorial Board: http://bit.ly/2c90CRs

-- For the Dan Wolf seat: “Julian Cyr and Anthony Schiavi for state Senate,” by the Boston Globe Editorial Board: http://bit.ly/2c8ZMo0

-- For the Brian Joyce seat: “Nora Harrington for state Senate,” by the Boston Globe Editorial Board: http://bit.ly/2c8ZDAQ

-- For the Ben Swan seat: “Ben Swan Jr. is the Republican's choice for 11th Hampden district,” by the Springfield Republican Editorial Board: http://bit.ly/2c8YLMJ

-- For the Ben Downing seat: “Our Opinion: Hinds is choice in key Senate race,” by the Berkshire Eagle: http://bit.ly/2c8ZZaS

-- For incumbent Tricia Farley-Bouvier: “Our Opinion: Farley-Bouvier earns primary endorsement,” by the Berkshire Eagle: http://bit.ly/2c914iY

-- “The Republican endorses Mary Hurley for Governor's Council,” by the Springfield Republican Editorial Board: http://bit.ly/2c8Zo90

-- “Nick Cocchi is The Republican's choice in the preliminary election for Hampden County Sheriff,” by the Springfield Republican: http://bit.ly/2c90p0Q

CYR’S MAILER INTRIGUE -- “Political Notes: Campaigns doctor ad scenarios,” by Geoff Spillane, Cape Cod Times: “They’re not real doctors or nurses, but they play them in political direct-mail advertisements. … Households across the region last week received a piece of campaign literature in their mailboxes from Julian Cyr, a Democrat running for the Cape & Islands District state Senate seat. The mailer touts the candidate as ‘a public health leader with a real plan to tackle the opioid crisis’ and depicts a concerned-looking Cyr speaking with two women and a man, all dressed in scrubs, with the women wearing stethoscopes. Two of the three, however, are not medical professionals at all. One is a paid Cyr campaign staffer and the other is a supporter of the candidate.” http://bit.ly/2cvZUin

ENDORSEMENT INTRIGUE -- “Briefings: Springfield Republican’s Sheriff Endorsement Leaks Early,” by Matt Szafranski, Western Mass. Politics and Insight: “The Republican newspaper’s endorsement in the Hampden Sheriff’s race got out ahead of schedule, revealing the paper choice in the fiercely contested Democratic primary. Not altogether surprisingly, the editorial board of the region’s largest newsroom has decided to get behind Assistant Superintendent Nicholas Cocchi.” http://bit.ly/2c8ZRrT

PROXY WAR -- “Charter debate playing out in small races with big money,” by David Scharfenberg, Boston Globe: “Democrats for Education Reform, which favors charter schools, and the Massachusetts Teachers Association, which opposes them, have set aside $200,000 each to influence a handful of this week’s Democratic primary races — sizable sums in often low-dollar contests.” http://bit.ly/2c9ehYN

WATCH -- Sen. Pat Jehlen debated Democrats for Education Reform’s Liam Kerr on Friday about charters and campaign finance. Both Jehlen and challenger Leland Cheung have benefitted from independent expenditure money from outside groups on opposite sides of the charter battle being spent on the candidates’ behalf in this primary race. The exchange was hosted by WGBH’s Mike Deehan: http://bit.ly/2c9dszs (43:31)

HOW FAR CAN OPPOSITION TAKE YOU -- “Powerful opponents to pot vote -- but that may not matter,” by Todd Feathers, Lowell Sun: “But if history is any guide, the opposition emanating from respected offices of state and local government may actually be a boon to the pro-marijuana camp, said Rick Ridder, president of RBI Strategies & Research, a Denver-based political consulting firm.” http://bit.ly/2c9dgzX

EYE ON THE DEEDS RACE -- “7 Democrats in race for Suffolk register of deeds,” by Astead W. Herndon, Boston Globe: “What’s clear: Dismally low voter turnout is expected, which favors candidates with high name recognition, such as former Boston city councilor Stephen J. Murphy. What’s also clear: Whoever wins the election will net a $124,000 annual paycheck with a questionable amount of responsibility.” http://bit.ly/2c91WUB

AND ON CONGRESS -- “GOP candidates for 9th Congressional District seat highlight their views,” by Chris Burrell, Patriot Ledger: “A retired Navy officer from Marshfield and a biologist from Falmouth are vying for the Republican nomination and a chance to unseat U.S. Rep. William Keating in November’s general election. … Tom O’Malley, of Marshfield, and Mark Alliegro, of Falmouth, will square off in Thursday’s primary. Both support the presidential nominee for their party, Donald Trump, and neither candidate has ever held an elected political office.” http://bit.ly/2cgg66V

LOW EXPECTATIONS NONETHELESS -- “Low turnout expected for Thursday's state primary,” by Jessica Trufant, Patriot Ledger: “Election officials, including Secretary of State William Galvin, are predicting a turnout of no more than 20 percent in a state primary election two days from now. … The odd timing, on a Thursday instead of the usual Tuesday, combined with a confusing lineup of races and candidates on the South Shore, could push the turnout even lower locally.” http://bit.ly/2cwE8Iq

WOOD WAR -- Herald: “NO GAIN FROM HIS PAIN” -- Globe: “Russian political intrusion suspected,” “RETHINKING LEGALIZED MARIJUANA” “Eager field for little-known deeds office,” “At NH rally, Sanders digs in on policy,” “Pilot program for teachers hits roadblock,” “Pill shown to prevent HIV, but few who could benefit use it.”

ENERGY MATTERS -- “5 turbines off Block Island could boost Bay State grid,” by Mike Lawrence, New Bedford Standard-Times: “Deepwater Wind is one of three turbine developers that could be vying, as soon as next summer, for long-term contracts to supply power from large-scale offshore wind farms in leased federal waters about 15 miles south of Martha’s Vineyard. Other competitors include New Jersey-based OffshoreMW and Denmark-based turbine giant DONG Energy, known locally as Bay State Wind.” http://bit.ly/2bPJPzm

TRANSIT MATTERS -- “Walsh throws latest MBTA privatization idea under bus,” by Matt Stout, Boston Herald: “Mayor Martin J. Walsh yesterday came out swinging against the MBTA for weighing the privatization of core functions such as bus routes and maintenance, calling it a ‘mistake’ that could pave the way to widespread outsourcing at the cash-strapped agency.” http://bit.ly/2c95h5W

WHAT THE HAIL -- “Frustrated by assaults, Senator sees need to revisit ride-hail law,” by Antonio Caban, State House News Service: “Disturbed by recent arrests involving Uber drivers accused of assaulting passengers, Sen. Linda Dorcena-Forry, who backed an unsuccessful effort to fingerprint drivers of app-based ride-hailing services, predicts lawmakers will need to return to the issue next session and did not rule out filing a new bill of her own.” http://bit.ly/2c98vXp

RESPONSE TIME MATTERS -- “Despite cost benefits, cities and towns slow to regionalize 911 dispatch centers,” by Shira Schoenberg, Springfield Republican: “According to a recent audit by state Auditor Suzanne Bump, 30 applicants representing 208 communities have received $3.8 million in state grants since 2008 to study regionalization. Only 14 of those applicants, representing 83 communities, have regionalized or are in the process of doing so. … Massachusetts has 351 cities and towns. In 2008, the state had 267 different 911 dispatch sites. Today, there are 247.” http://bit.ly/2c98y5m

A HELPFUL BOOST -- “Minimum wage hike helped Massachusetts' lowest-paid workers,” by the Associated Press: “Massachusetts’ lowest-paid workers saw their hourly compensation rise by more than 7 percent last year following a hike in the state’s minimum wage, according to a report released on Labor Day. … A 2014 law raised the minimum wage from $8 an hour to $9 an hour on Jan. 1, 2015. Under the law, the minimum wage subsequently moved up to $10 an hour on Jan. 1 of this year and is scheduled to rise to a U.S.-leading $11 an hour at the beginning of next year.” http://bit.ly/2bUkF5D

JUST ANOTHER KITCHEN TABLE CHAT -- “Marijuana's Mainstream Move Triggers Different Kinds Of Family Talks,” by Stina Sieg and Kristian Foden-Vencil, NPR: “Coming at this from a completely different direction is 60-year-old food editor Martha Holmberg. She lives in Portland, Ore., and says she smoked a lot of marijuana in high school and college then didn't touch pot again until she finished bringing up her kids. Now it's more a fabric of her social life.” http://bit.ly/2c97sqh

HANDY -- “Proposed medical marijuana sites in Central Mass.,” by Don Landgren Jr., Worcester Telegram: http://bit.ly/2c7rAZ7

ICYMI: PARTY POOPED -- “Top Baker officials were on guest list for controversial party,” by Chris Cassidy and Matt Stout, Boston Herald: “Energy and Environmental Affairs Secretary Matthew Beaton, Administration & Finance Secretary Kristen Lepore and Chief Secretary Carlo Basile were on the guest list, as well as Baker senior adviser Tim Buckley and spokesmen Lizzy Guyton, Billy Pittman and Brendan Moss, according to a list obtained by the Herald from the Baker administration under a public records request.” http://bit.ly/2c9cCT8

POST-TROPICAL STORM WITH MORE BARK THAN BITE -- “Hermine attracts the curious, chases others home,” by Doug Fraser, Cape Cod Times: “This was no Hurricane Bob. But Hermine's arrival on Labor Day, one of the biggest tourist weekends of the year, did produce a smattering of power outages, a few downed trees and the potential for some erosion.” http://bit.ly/2bQh8ap

MEDIA MATTERS -- “New cable newscaster takes the plunge into TV,” by Rick Sobey, Lowell Sun: “It's been several years since Lowell Telecommunications Corp. produced a 30-minute newscast. … But now LTC is going back to a 30-minute weekly show -- a collaboration between LTC and The Sun.” http://bit.ly/2bTvWpI

HAPPY BIRTHDAY -- To US Rep. Bill Keating, chief of staff for Boston city council president Michelle Wu Dave Vittorini, deputy BPS spokeswoman Gabrielle Farrell, Harvard Business Review senior editor Curt Nickisch, Franklin Park Coalition executive director Corey J. Allen, Nathan Hale Veterans Outreach Centers founder Christopher C. Hart, and Deval Patrick and Ed Markey campaign alum Peter Lin-Marcus.

HAPPY BELATED BIRTHDAY -- To chief of staff for Boston City Councilor Frank Baker Amy Friguletti (Thursday); Haverhill City Councilor Andy Vargas (Saturday); Brookline Rep. Frank Smizik (Sunday); Rep. Jen Flanagan, Sen. Brian Joyce, and MCPHS comms pro/guy you definitely follow on Twitter Michael Ratty (Monday).

DID THE HOME TEAM WIN? -- No! The Sox lost to the Padres 2-1.

Want to make an impact? POLITICO Massachusetts has a variety of multi-platform solutions available to reach and activate the most influential people in the Bay State. Have a petition you want signed? A cause you’re promoting? Share your message with our influential readers to increase awareness and drive action. Contact Chris Falls to find out how: cfalls@politico.com .

FOR MORE political and policy news from Massachusetts, check out: http://politi.co/1qNSlWx

SUBSCRIBE to the Playbook family: POLITICO Playbook: http://politi.co/1phAeAC … New York Playbook: http://politi.co/1ON8bqW ... Florida Playbook: http://politi.co/1JDm23W ... New Jersey Playbook: http://politi.co/1HLKltF ... Massachusetts Playbook: http://politi.co/1Nhtq5v ... Illinois Playbook: http://politi.co/1N7u5sb ... California Playbook: http://politi.co/1N8zdJU and our friends at POLITICO Brussels Playbook: http://politi.co/1FZeLcw ... All our policy and political tipsheets http://politi.co/1M75UbX