http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3816150/Female-police-officer-thrown-profession-caught-CCTV-attacking-two-McDonald-s-customers-following-late-night-drunken-row.html
120
12
An off-duty policewoman who was caught on CCTV attacking two customers in a late night row at McDonald’s has been thrown out of the profession.

PC Karen Fraser identified herself to colleagues after police were called to a fight at the fast food joint in Empire Way, close to Wembley Stadium, in London at 2am on December 6, 2015.

Fraser claimed her memory of the incident was clouded by drink. But an examination of the CCTV actually showed her as the aggressor in the brawl.

She could be seen punching one man, swinging and slapping at another and scratching a third.

PC Karen Fraser was seen getting into a drunken fight whilst off duty in McDonald's, near Wembley Satadium, London, (pictured) and she identified herself to police colleagues when they arrived

The probationer, having acted as a constable since September of that year, initially provided no further assistance in an interview at Wembley Police Station on December 10. But in a second interview three months later she accepted her behaviour could have been seen as threatening and accepted a caution before apologising.

Fraser, attached to Barnet Borough, faced a Metropolitan Police Misconduct Hearing yesterday to answer charges that her actions had breached the standards of professional behaviour.

Assistant Commissioner Helen King said: ‘Your conduct falls significantly below what is expected from police officers.

Speaking at Fraser's Metropolitan Police Misconduct Hearing yesterday, Assistant Commissioner Helen King (pictured) said her 'conduct falls significantly below what is expected from police officers'

‘This is a breach of the standards of professional behaviour relating to honesty and integrity and discreditable conduct.

‘Your conduct amounts to gross misconduct and the breaches are considered to be so serious as to justify your dismissal.’

AC King duly found the allegations against Fraser proven.

PC Andy Wrigley, appearing of Fraser’s behalf, told the tribunal Fraser had offered to resign before the hearing took place.

‘PC Fraser would like to apologise for any embarrassment she has caused to the Metropolitan Police Service,’ he said.

AC King added that Fraser's behaviour was s exactly the type which drained police resources and the ‘night-time economy’

‘She understands the proceedings that we are going through today and she does apologise unreservedly.’

The tribunal heard that Fraser had previously worked as a PCSO from 2008 through to September 2015.

But AC King said that her behaviour was exactly the type which drained police resources and the ‘night-time economy’.

‘Off-duty officers are expected not to contribute to the level of violence their on-duty colleagues are dealing with,’ she added.

‘She then continued her actions by volunteering herself as a witness by providing a statement that contained a number of omissions.’

The Assistant Commissioner finished by ruling Fraser’s actions had ‘undermined her ability to be put forward as a witness in criminal proceedings in the future’.

PC Fraser, who was not present but represented at the hearing, accepted breaching the standards of professional behaviour in relation to honesty and integrity as well as discreditable conduct.