http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-3771224/Forget-having-sixth-sense-sixth-TASTE-reveal-love-carbs-much.html
20
2
It has long been thought that there are four primary tastes – salty, sweet, sour and bitter, although a fifth taste, called Umami, was added as a fifth in 2009.

But researchers suggest that there may be a sixth taste missing from the list.

They say that complex carbohydrates, such as starch, have their own taste and should be considered an independent flavour.

Researchers suggest that there may be a sixth taste missing from the list. They say that complex carbohydrates, such as starch, have their own taste and should be considered an independent flavour

COMPLEX VERSUS SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES There are two types of carbohydrates – complex and simple carbs. Complex carbohydrates are those in their natural food form comprised of a long chain of simple carbs and those that are already in smaller pieces. Complex carbs are foods which contain vitamins, minerals and antioxidants, such as potatoes, beans and brown rice. Simple carbs are often softer in texture – white bread, white rice table sugar. These easily digested carbohydrates are rapidly absorbed, causing a spike in blood sugar and quick boost in energy.

The research comes from scientists at Oregan State University, who wanted to understand how every culture used complex carbohydrates, yet they do not have their own taste.

Complex carbohydrates are made of sugar molecules strung together, much like pearls on a necklace.

They are a vital source of vitamins, minerals, and fibre, and are used by cultures worldwide.

When complex carbohydrates are broken down by saliva, their chains break down into simple sugars, which were assumed to produce a sweet taste.

However, the researchers suggested that this was not the case, and that the carbohydrates themselves had a unique flavour.

To test their theory, the scientists gave a range of different carbohydrate solutions to volunteers and asked them what they thought the taste was.

Dr Juyun Lim, who led the study, told New Scientist: 'They called the taste "starchy".

'Asians would say it was rice-like, while Caucasians described it as bread-like or pasta-like. It's like eating flour.'

The researchers then gave the participants a compound that blocks the receptors of the tongue that detect sweet tastes.

Despite this, the participants could still make out the floury flavour.

To test their theory, the scientists gave a range of different carbohydrate solutions to volunteers and asked them what they thought the taste was (stock image)

CRITERIA FOR PRIMARY TASTES There are five criteria that must be met to classify a flavour as a primary taste: 1) There must be a chemical stimulus 2) This must then trigger specific receptors on our taste buds 3) There has to be a viable pathway between these receptors and our brains 4) We've got to be able to perceive and process the taste in the brain 5) Finally, this whole process has to trigger downstream effects in the body

This suggests that we can taste carbohydrates before they are broken down into sugar molecules, and have a flavour in their own right.

The results suggest that human taste is more complex than previously thought.

Dr Michael Tordoff, a psychobiologist at Monell Chemical Senses Center in Philadelphia, who himself is trying to understand whether we can taste calcium, said: 'Many people think there are only five tastes, but a bunch of us think there might be others.'

This is not the first time a sixth taste has been suggested.

Last year, scientists from Purdue University in Indiana proposed that fats should have their own flavour, called 'oleogustus' because it evoked unique sensations.

One criterion that is definitely met, is that a flavour must be useful to us – starch is a valuable source of slow-release energy

WHAT IS UMAMI? Umami is the Japanese word for the fifth basic sense of taste, after bitter, salty, sour and sweet. Despite being known in the East for more than 100 years, particularly Japan, it is a relatively new concept to the West where only the four primary tastes were recognised until 2009. Umami means deliciousness in Japanese, but translates best as 'savouriness' and provides the 'meaty' flavour in meat. It is formed from glutamates being detected by receptors on the tongue and is the reason why monosodium glutamate (MSG) is used as a flavour enhancer. It is also found naturally in meats, cheeses and mushrooms.

To become recognised as a primary taste, however, flavour must meet a strict list of criteria.

This includes having their own set of tongue receptors, being recognisable, and triggering a physiological response.

Unfortunately for the researchers, starch does not meet all the criteria – the researchers are yet to find tongue receptors.

However, one criterion that is definitely met, is that a flavour must be useful to us – starch is a valuable source of slow-release energy.

Dr Lim added: 'I believe that's why people prefer complex carbs.