http://mumbaimirror.indiatimes.com/mumbai/crime/Hospital-director-was-warned-of-wrongdoing-a-month-before-bust/articleshow/54802570.cms
120
12
State health directorate had asked Hiranandnai’s Anurag Naik to act against transplant coordinator Nilesh Kamble, alleging he was taking bribes, but warning was ignored.



A month before the kidney racket at Hiranandani hospital was busted on July 14 right before a transplant, the Directorate of Health Services had asked the Powai facility to act against the hospital’s transplant coordinator Nilesh Kamble — suspected to be pivotal to the operation — alleging that he was pocketing bribes for forging papers. But neither medical director Anurag Naik nor CEO Sujeet Chatterjee heeded the caveat. Worse, they didn’t even respond to DHS’s warning letter.



The findings are part of a nearly 1,000-page charge sheet filed last Thursday by Powai police against 15 people including Chatterjee, Naik and three other doctors from LH Hiranandani Hospital, all of whom are out on bail.



The charge-sheet includes the letter that DHS wrote to Anurag Naik on June 3, which levels the bribery allegation against Nilesh Kamble. As transplant coordinator, it was Kamble’s job to prepare paperwork for transplants, which would then be examined by a committee at the hospital, before a surgery was green-lighted. It was Kamble who had preparedthe fraudulent documents in the transplant that was halted on July 14.



The police, who recovered Rs 8 lakh from Kamble’s house a day after the bust, say it is the kickback he extracted for forging the documents to show that Surat-based patient Brijkishore Jaiswal was getting a kidney from his wife Rekhadevi, when in fact the donor was a destitute mother of five, Shobhana Thakur. Jaiswal, who was accused in the case along with Thakur, died on August 31after getting interim bail.



After DHS shot off the warning letter to Naik, the hospital apparently let off Kamble with a warning. Confronted over the negligence by Hiranandani’s management, CEO Chatterjee argued that Kamble had been warned and counselled. But while Kamble has accepted that he got an email from the hospital, he denies receiving any counselling.



“This is in contrast to the memo submitted by Hiranandani Authorities to DHS,” said a state-appointed technical committee, comprising doctors Gauri Rathod, Sujata Patwardhan and Kalpana Mehta, in its report, which is part of the charge-sheet. When the panel interrogated Anurag Naik, he admitted that neglecting to respond to DHS’s letter was a “mistake”.



‘Overweight’ wife couldn’t donate kidney



The patient-accused Brijkishore Jaiswal’s wife Rekhadevi was willing to donate a kidney to her husband, but doctors in Delhi had advised her against it. According to her statement, which is part of the charge-sheet, when she had gone to New Delhi in February earlier this year for cataract treatment, she met a kidney specialist and told him that she’d be donating a kidney to her ailing husband. “The doctor told me I wouldn’t be able to donate my kidney as I was overweight. I don’t remember the name of the doctor right now,” reads the statement recorded on July 17.



Jaiswal then started looking for other means to get a donor outside his family, and Shobhana Thakur — aka ‘Rekhadevi’ as per the forged documents — came into the picture.



The 15 people named in the charge-sheet have been booked under several sections of the Indian Penal Code including conspiracy and forgery, as well as sections of the Human Organs Transplant Act of 1994.