http://www.philstar.com/headlines/2016/09/02/1619702/congress-asked-allot-p10-b-ched-scholars-k-12-program
20
2
MANILA, Philippines - Congress was asked to allocate almost P10 billion to the Commission on Higher Education for scholarships and the K-12 transition programs next year.

It needs P5.54 billion for scholarships and P4.55 billion for the K-12 transition program in 2017, CHED said during the congressional hearing on its budget on Wednesday.

The allocation for the two programs represents a large portion of CHED’s proposed P13.36-billion budget for 2017, the highest in its history.

CHED received this year an allocation of P9.66 billion, including P2.13 billion for scholarships and P5.27 billion for the K-12 transition program.

CHED created the K-12 transition program to provide support to faculty and staff in higher education institutions affected by the lower number of college enrollees.

The fund is used to provide programs and grants for teachers to enable them to pursue research or graduate studies due to the five-year transition period that began this year.

Headlines ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1

During the hearing, CHED admitted facing problems in the release of scholarship funds.

It expects better streamlining of the student aid programs with the establishment of Unified Student Financial Assistance System for Tertiary Education Board.

Established by law, UniFAST creates a unified system of government-funded scholarships, grants-in-aid, student loans and other forms of Student Financial Assistance for students of technical/vocational and higher education institutions.

Co-chairmen are the heads of CHED, the Technical Education and Skills Development Authority and the Department of Science and Technology.

Other members include the heads of the Department of Labor and Employment, Department of Education, National Youth Commission and the National Economic and Development Authority.

CHED proposed a budget of P18.2 million for the operation of UniFAST.

It also proposed a budget of P1.76 billion for the continued implementation of the Philippine-California Advanced Research Institutes.