http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3833100/Have-Kim-Kardashian-jewel-gang-struck-Billionaire-gems-worth-220-000-stolen-Paris-home-24-hours-star-robbed.html
120
12
A 75-year-old Taiwanese billionaire was robbed a day after Kim Kardashian

A 75-year-old Taiwanese billionaire was robbed last week at her Paris home of jewels worth up to £180,000.

Shaw-Lan Wang, a publisher who is also the main shareholder of the French fashion label Lanvin, lives in the chic 16th district of the French capital.

Wang, a director of the Taiwanese newspaper United Daily News, was taking an afternoon nap when the robbery occurred on October 4, a police source said.

It was the day after celebrity Kim Kardashian lost millions worth of jewels in a heist nearby.

Kardashian, the world's highest paid reality television star, was held up at gunpoint in when she was left unprotected in her £25,000-a-week apartment in the Hôtel Particulier Pourtales.

The robbers made off with her 20-carat Lorraine Schwartz engagement ring worth £3.5million and a case of jewellery with a value of £5.24million.

Her hands and feet were bound with cable ties during the robbery and she is believed to have been dumped in her marble bath tub during the terrifying heist.

After the raid, the five men were seen escaping on 'velibs' - hire bicycles which can be rented all over Paris.

During the raid one day after, two men broke into Wang's apartment while she was sleeping and made off with jewels including a ring she was wearing.

Kardashian, pictured with husband Kanye West, was held up at gunpoint in when she was left unprotected in her £25,000-a-week apartment in the Hôtel Particulier Pourtales

Despite the raid occurring so soon after the Kardashian heist, a police source denied both events were linked.

The robbers also stole telephones and 'various luxury items'. Wang was not harmed.

The value of the haul is estimated at between £137,000 and £180,000.

Khloe Kardashian says her older sister, Kim Kardashian West, is 'not doing that well' more than a week after she was held up during a Paris jewellery heist.

During an appearance on the Ellen DeGeneres Show, Khloe described the incident as being 'incredibly traumatic' for her sister.

Shaw Lan Wang attends the Lanvin show during Paris Fashion Week. She was not harmed during the robbery

French police officers stand in front of Kim Kardashian's luxury apartment Hotel de Pourtales on Rue Tronchet in the 8th arrondissement

The Kardashian clan has been unusually quiet on social media in the days since the robbery, and Khloe says the incident is 'a wake-up call to make a lot of life adjustments'.

She said the family is going 'to pull back a little bit' and make sure it's 'protected as well as possible'.