http://hosted2.ap.org/CAANR/0260ea4c3e85456b80715585ba3c7b5b/Article_2016-10-11-LT--Colombia-Peace%20Camp/id-c2cc1b452507484eb2914ff4ca48e5a5
120
12
A A A

Colombian youth set up tent city to demand peace deal

BY JOSHUA GOODMAN

, Associated Press

Demonstrators hold hands to support a peace accord between the Colombian government and rebels of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, FARC, at the main square in Bogota, Colombia, Saturday, Oct. 8, 2016. Dozens of people are camping at the Bolivar square in support of the peace process. Voters narrowly rejected in a referendum a peace accord signed between President Juan Manuel Santos and the FARC. (AP Photo/Ivan Valencia) Demonstrators hold hands to support a peace accord between the Colombian government and rebels of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, FARC, at the main square in Bogota, Colombia, Saturday, Oct. 8, 2016. Dozens of people are camping at the Bolivar square in support of the peace process. Voters narrowly rejected in a referendum a peace accord signed between President Juan Manuel Santos and the FARC. (AP Photo/Ivan Valencia) A woman writes a message to support a peace deal between the Colombian government and rebels of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, FARC, at the main square in Bogota, Colombia, Saturday, Oct. 8, 2016. Dozens of people are camping at the Bolivar square to support the continuation of peace talks. Dozens of people are camping at the Bolivar square to support the continuation of peace talks. Voters narrowly rejected in a referendum a peace accord signed between President Juan Manuel Santos and the FARC. (AP Photo/Ivan Valencia) Demonstrators stitch together white sheets covered by the names of victims of Colombia's internal conflict at Bolivar square in downtown Bogota, Colombia, Tuesday, Oct. 11, 2016. The project, lead by artist Doris Salcedo, seeks to push Colombians to ask for a successful conclusion of the peace process with rebels of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) after voters rejected the deal reached by the government and FARC in a referendum. (AP Photo/Ivan Valencia) Demonstrators install white sheets covered with the names of victims of Colombia's internal conflict at Bolivar square in downtown Bogota, Colombia, Tuesday, Oct. 11, 2016. The project, lead by artist Doris Salcedo, seeks to push Colombians to ask for a successful conclusion of the peace process after voters rejected the deal reached by the government with the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) in a referendum. (AP Photo/Ivan Valencia) Demonstrators install white sheets covered by the names of victims of Colombia's internal conflict at Bolivar square in downtown Bogota, Colombia, Tuesday, Oct. 11, 2016. The project, lead by artist Doris Salcedo, seeks to push Colombians to ask for a successful conclusion of the peace process with rebels of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) after voters rejected the deal reached by the government and FARC in a referendum. (AP Photo/Ivan Valencia) . . 1 of 5 . . More News

Video

Buy AP Photo Reprints

(AP) — Dozens of activists have raised a multicolored, makeshift tent city in Bogota's main square to demand the government and rebels save a deal meant to end a half century of conflict — part of a belated outburst of activism across the country by Colombians stunned at last week's unexpected defeat of the peace accord in a referendum.

The mostly youthful demonstrators at what's called the "Peace Camp" reject any political affiliation. Organizers say their only goal is to make sure the peace deal signed last month by the government and rebels isn't scuttled.

The first two tents were raised Oct. 5 after as many as 25,000 people poured into the streets of Bogota to back the rejected accord. Within a week, the impromptu encampment has grown to 70 tents.