http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3846848/NatWest-caves-Kremlin-State-owned-bank-backtracks-threats-close-accounts-Putin-s-propaganda-mouthpiece-Russia-Today.html
120
12
NatWest has caved in to Kremlin pressure less than 24 hours after pledging to close the UK accounts of the Vladimir Putin-backed Russia Today.

The threat sparked a diplomatic row and led to Russian claims the state-owned bank was guilty of trying to censor the channel known to be a favourite of the president.

In a letter to the broadcaster, NatWest, which is part of the taxpayer bailed out Royal Bank Scotland Group, said it was closing RT's accounts next month, the decision was 'final' and it was 'not prepared to enter any discussion' about it.

RT's editor in chief Margarita Simonyan suggested it was part of a US and British plot to target Russia over Syria and there were calls for the BBC’s bank accounts in Russia to be shut down as a reprisal.

Last night, in the face of major pressure from the Kremlin and as the Treasury sources refused to back them, the bank said it was now 'reviewing the situation'.

RT editor Margarita Simonyan , 36, right with Vladimir Putin last December, revealed NatWest was shutting its accounts - but the bank has now backed down

Frozen accounts: RT published a letter sent by NatWest, which said: 'We have recently undertaken a review of your banking arrangements with us'

Twitter post: Ms Simonyan said: 'Our accounts in the UK have been closed. All accounts. 'The decision is not subject to revision'. Long live freedom of speech!'

A spokesman added that they would now be discussing the matter despite previously refusing to.

The decision sparked a furious diplomatic row yesterday and their decision to back down will be seen as a victory for Putin.

Boss: Russia Today editor-in-chief Margarita Simonyan revealed NatWest's threat

Downing Street said the decision – which will make it harder for the broadcaster to operate in the UK – had nothing to do with the government and was a ‘matter for the bank.’

The taxpayer owns 73 per cent of the RBS group after it was bailed out in 2008.

But the Russian Embassy in London issued an extraordinary statement which blamed the British government and said the decision was ‘an outrage’.

It also claimed other Russian news outlets had also had their accounts frozen or closed.

The statement said: ‘It makes it abundantly clear that this ham-fistedness is all HM Government can say in support of its position on the international issues where we differ. The Russian side will request explanations, including as regards UK’s compliance with OSCE [an intergovernmental security organisation] and other norms guaranteeing freedom of speech.’

Prime Minister Theresa May’s official spokesman was forced to wade into the argument and reiterated that it was not a government decision, but added: ‘More broadly, do we want to make sure that misinformation is not being spread? Of course we do.’

Reaction: Some Twitter users suggested those who defend RT's free speech should 'expect to be laughed at', and it was ignorant to suggest the channel is part of the 'free press'

RT – which was previously known as Russia Today – has been accused of being a mouthpiece for Vladimir Putin.

In a letter to the channel NatWest gave the station notice, saying: ‘We have recently undertaken a review of your banking arrangements with us and reached the conclusion that we will no longer provide these facilities.’

The bank said its decision was final and it is ‘not prepared to enter into any discussion’. It said accounts will be closed on December 12.

A spokesman for the Russian Embassy in London said that Russian news outlets Rossiya Segodnya, Sputnik and VGTRK also had their accounts frozen or closed.

‘We are concerned over the said decision and the pressure exercised against Russian news outlets in UK,’ he added.

RT is a foreign-language network that is primarily aimed at audiences in Europe and the United States and broadcasts 24-hours a day in English, Arabic and Spanish.

But it has come under fire for its one-sided reporting, which includes failing to show the presence of Russian soldiers deployed on the Crimea when the peninsula was annexed.

It has also portrayed Russia’s involvement in Syria as an attempt to purge the country of terrorists and glossed over the death of civilians caused by Russia’s bombardment of Aleppo.

Relations with Moscow are already strained after Boris Johnson, the Foreign Secretary, called on anti-war activists to protest outside the Russian Embassy in London.

Support: The channel is known to be favoured by Labour's Jeremy Corbyn (pictured on air)

Praise: Mr Corbyn tweeted in April 2011 that he liked how it was 'free of Royal Wedding and more objective on Libya than most'

Downing Street insisted the account freeze had nothing to do with the government, saying it was a ‘matter for the bank’ which had carried out its own ‘risk assessment’.

As the diplomatic row with London intensified, one Moscow-based politician even threatened ‘reprisals’ against the BBC’s operation in Russia.

Igor Morozov, a member of the Russian parliament’s upper house, called for the BBC’s bank accounts in Russia to be ‘arrested’ as a reprisal.

The broadcaster reacted with fury at the decision to close its accounts, suggesting that it was being censored.

Margarita Simonyan, 36, editor of the news network, said she has been contacted by a number of customers who are pledging to bank elsewhere in solidarity with the channel.

She had earlier taken to social media to reveal that all of Russia Today's UK bank accounts had been closed, adding: 'Long live freedom of speech!'

She later suggested the closure of the accounts was an attempt to stop RT from broadcasting: ‘They have failed to defeat us by simply vilifying us, by picking on our broadcast, so they decided to try the banking flank: “Try broadcasting when all your accounts have been closed”. Yet we will try.’

She suggested it could be linked to the fact that ‘we are expecting new British and US sanctions against Russia’.

Sergei Zheleznyak, from the ruling United Russia party, told the Interfax news agency: ‘We will be demanding an explanation from Britain’s official authorities in connection with this situation.’

Mr Zheleznyak, who sits on the international affairs committee of the State Duma called NatWest’s withdrawal of banking services ‘outrageous’ and ‘an infringement of the rights of journalists’.

Alexander Nekrassov, a former Kremlin spokesman now based in London, said that by closing RT’s bank accounts, ‘May’s lot are giving Russian broadcaster a huge promotion’.

A spokesman for RBS, the parent company of NatWest, said: ‘These decisions are not taken lightly. We are reviewing the situation and are contacting the customer to discuss this further. The bank accounts remain open and are still operative.’

'Are there grounds for a Russian retaliation against the British state propaganda machine the BBC?': George Galloway calls on Moscow to 'take action' on Auntie Former MP George Galloway today led calls for Russia to take action against the BBC Former Respect MP George Galloway today led calls for Russia to take action against the BBC following the bank account freeze. He tweeted that he had told RT: 'The British deep state is nervous. RT's popularity grows as the BBC's credibility declines. 'The British state is a significant shareholder in NatWest. This is a political decision and an attack on Russia. This is a crude, brute decision by a British government-owned bank. 'Are there grounds for a Russian retaliation against the British state propaganda machine the BBC? 'The good news is this is the 16th year of the 21st century, and no one is going to be able to stop British people watching RT.'

Meet Putin's favourite chain-smoking glamorous journalist: Editor of Kremlin-backed news network Russia Today is involved in a scandalous love-triangle with a well-known film director and actress

Russia Today editor-in-chief Margarita Simonyan (pictured) is Putin's favourite journalist

By Jenny Awford and Mark Duell

She hit the headlines after revealing the bank accounts of Kremlin-backed TV channel Russia Today had been frozen by NatWest.

But Margarita Simonyan, the glamorous editor-in-chief of the state broadcaster, is used to life in the spotlight - and the scrutiny that comes with being Putin's favourite journalist.

The chain-smoking brunette, 36, received flowers from the Russian president on her 25th birthday, the same year which saw her hastily promoted to the top job at RT.

She clearly feels comfortable mixing in A-lister circles and is involved in a 'love triangle' with a well-known film director and actress which caused a furore in Russia.

Ms Simonyan shares the second of her two children with film director Tigran Keosayan - who is 14 years her senior.

And she enjoys a friendly relationship with his ex-wife, stunning actress Alena Khmelnytsky - with whom she was seen swilling white wine earlier this year.

'I spent the evening with Alena Khmelnytsky. That's how it is,' Ms Simonyan captioned an image of the pair giggling and posing together with their drinks.

They seem to relish being part of a 'modern family' and attend the birthday parties of children on both sides.

Ms Simonyan, who boasts 426,000 followers on Twitter, also has a three-year-old daughter, Mariana, from her first marriage to journalist Andrew Blagodyrenko.

She clearly feels comfortable mixing in A-lister circles and is involved in a 'love triangle' with a well-known film director and actress Alena Khmelnytsky (pictured together)

Her meteoric rise to the top of the journalistic profession - as well as the upper echelons of Russian society - is even more incredible given her humble upbringing.

She was born in Krasnodar, Russia, to two Armenian parents who were descended from refugees.

The journalist has bravely spoken in the past about how her great-grandmother survived the Armenian Genocide while the rest of her family was slaughtered.

Her parents were poor as her father her made a living repairing refrigerators and her mother sold flowers at the market.

At the age of 15, she spent a year living in Bristol, New Hampshire, as part of a student exchange programme to the US.

Ms Simonyan began her career aged 18, was appointed editor-in-chief of Russia Today just seven years later in 2005 and has won several journalism awards

Ms Simonyan has been critical of what she sees as a bias in Western coverage on TV

'When I was in the US I came to better appreciate life in Russia. At the same time I got into American habits and beliefs, large and small,' she said of the experience.

She started her career in journalism at the age of 18 and was appointed editor-in-chief of Russia Today just seven years later in 2005.

During those years she reported from the 2004 Beslan school siege and on the Second Chechen War in 1999 and 2000, winning numerous awards in the process.

Mr Putin sent her flowers after he is believed to have heard other journalists talking about her 25th birthday at a press conference.

Speaking about the incident to Passport magazine in 2007, she said: 'It was very spontaneous. I don't think that you can call it a presidential high regard.

'Don't you think that the president has more important things to think about? Like all of the other heads of TV channels, we meet at celebrations.'

In recent days Ms Simonyan has been critical of what she sees as a bias in Western coverage on TV when it comes to coverage of the conflict in Syria.

She said: 'Aleppo, unfortunately, has become the spot where we've seen a lot of mainstream media journalists become activists, cynically using shocking imagery in pursuit of a political agenda.'

And she told the New York Times in 2008: 'I'm a bit tired to try to explain that we are independent, that I don't get calls from the government - I do not.

Last year she told her followers on Twitter that she had finally quit smoking after two decades, having got through two or three packs every day since she was 14

'We want to develop into a really trusted name that people turn to because they want to know what's going on in the country.'

She has claimed that she wanted RT to do something different to 'mainstream western TV channels' because they were all broadcasting the same content.

The channel has become known for its unorthodox guests and those at the political extremes of the right and left, such as Nigel Farage and Jeremy Corbyn.

Speaking to the Financial Times in July, Ms Simonyan added: 'We are far less critical of Western policy than Western media are critical of Russia.

'When was the last time you read anything good about Russia? Anywhere? Name me one publication.

'That's why this cliché that Russia Today is an anti-Western channel brings a smile to my face.'