http://news2.onlinenigeria.com/news/general/537422-nigerian-senate-rejects-3-nddc-nominees-confirms-others-full-list.html
120
12
Home | News | General | Nigerian Senate rejects 3 NDDC nominees, confirms others [FULL LIST]

The Nigerian Senate has began consideration of nominees for Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) board with Senate president Bukola Saraki presiding over the plenary.

Nigerian Senate session

The Senate reverted to committee of the whole to deliberate on their confirmation.

However, three out of the 19 were not confirmed. They include Hon.Donatus Enyinnaya of Abia state, Sen. OSita Bonaventure Izunaso, Imo state and Olatokunbo Ayotunde Ajasin of Ondo state.

Saraki thanked the committee for their efforts and congratulated the chairman and the new members of the board.

Two months ago, the Senate officially received a letter from President Muhammadu Buhari requesting the confirmation of Victor Ndoma Egba as chairman and Isima Ekere as managing director of the NDDC.

The Nigerian Senate had on Tuesday, October 4, screened Senator Victor Ndoma-Egba, the former Senate leader, as chairman of NDDC board and other members.

However, the former Senate leader was not screened, but spoke briefly to his colleagues, even as he was later asked to take a bow.

READ ALSO: Senate receives letter for confirmation of Ekere as NDDC boss

Read full list of the nominees below:

1. Senator Victor Ndoma-Egba – Chairman – Cross River state

2. Nsima Udo Ekere – Managing Director – Akaw-Ibom state

3. Engr Adjogbe Samuel – Executive director – Delta state

4. Mene Derek – Executive director (finance and administration) – Rivers state

5. Hon. Donatus Enyinnah – member – Abia state

6. Frank Samuel George – member – Akwa-Ibom state

7. Prof. Brambaifa Nelson – member – Bayelsa state

8. Sylvester Nsa – member – Cross-River state

9. Dr. Ogaga Ifowodo – member- Delta state

10. Hon. Uwuile Saturday – member – Edo state

11. Sen. Osita Izunaso – member – Imo state

12. Olatokunbo Ajasin – member- Ondo state

13. Harry Dabibi – member Rivers state

14. Benard Banfa – member- North central zone

15. Yahaya Mohammed – member – Northeast zone

16. Mustapha Dankadai – member – Northwest zone

17. Igo Weli – member -Niger Delta

18. Mahmoud Isa-Dutse – member- Federal Ministry of Finance

19. Abdul-Kazeem Bayero – member – Federal Ministry of Environment

READ ALSO: Senate screens Ndoma Egba, others (photos)

See photo of the nominees below which was twitted by @ngrsenate

List of NDDC nominees twitted by @ngrsenate

List of NDDC nominees twitted by @ngrsenate

Rate this article 0

CLICK HERE TO READ MORE FROM: General