http://nation.com.pk/national/05-Oct-2016/phc-grants-bail-to-former-kp-minister
120
12
PESHAWAR - Peshawar High Court (PHC) accepted the bail application of former Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP) Minister for Minerals Ziaullah Afridi and ordered his release without any delay.



In his bail application submitted in PHC, Ziaullah Afridi pleaded that he was arrested on charges of illegal digging and extraction of minerals, but the Ehtisab Commission has so far not submitted a reference against him in the case.



Ziaullah, a leader of PTI, was arrested by KP Ehtesab Commission on charges of corruption and misuse of powers in early 2015.

He further said that other people arrested in the same case have been freed on bail.



A two-member bench comprising of Justice Waqar Ahmad Seth and Justice Qalandar Ali Khan after hearing arguments of both parties, remarked that Ehtisab Commission had failed in producing substantial proofs against the accused.

The court ordered the commission to release Ziaullah Afridi on bail against Rs 2 million.



It is pertinent to mention here that KP Member Provincial Assembly and former Provincial Minister of Mines and Minerals, Ziaullah Afridi, had also challenged his arrest along with the appointments of former DG Ehtisab Commission.



The former minister, who has spent more than a year in prison, prayed in the petition that the appointments of DG KPEC, prosecutor general and commissioners were illegal.



He argued that his arrest, registration of cases against him and investigation were also illegal and should be declared as null and void.



As per the record obtained from the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Assembly, the Special Secretary of Information Technology KP Assembly stated in the letter issued on September 01 last month that the record for the nomination of the DG KPEC and prosecutor general was not sent to the legislative committee and that was the reason that an important legal step was skipped in the appointment of former DG, who later arrested Ziaullah Afridi.



Due to legal loopholes in the appointment of Director General Ehtisab commission, the former minister was released on bail against Rs 2 million.



Ziaullah Afridi remained in custody of Ehtisab Commission for the last 16 months for his alleged involvement in illegal mining of Sahara minerals in Abbottabad and chromites mining contracts.



On September 25, 2015 Peshawar high court had released him on bail; however, the Ehtisab Commission filed another reference against him and arrested him.

