http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/720099/European-Union-Brussels-Vladimir-Putin-Russia-ISIS-threat-counter-propaganda-unit
120
12
GETTY/IG The EU is facing a growing propaganda threat from Russia and ISIS

The European Parliament wants far more resources to be pumped into a team of officials tasked with dispelling myths spread by Russia and Islamic State (ISIS) jihadis. A report by the Polish MEP Anna Fotyga claims that the troubled bloc has been bombarded by Kremlin propaganda which is threatening to “weaken and split” the EU forever.

The former foreign minister called for Brussels to beef up its own propaganda channels, such as the TV station euronews, to counter the growing threat of disinformation. Currently the EU has an eight-strong Strategic Communication Task Force which is tasked with producing regular “myth busting” bulletins countering claims by Russia and ISIS.

GETTY A report by MEPs says Vladimir Putin has invested heavily in propaganda

IG ISIS is also trying to spread disinformation across the continent

Ms Fotyga’s report, which was endorsed today by the EU Parliament’s foreign affairs committee, calls for this unit to be “reinforced by turning it into a fully-fledged unit within the EEAS [EU foreign service], responsible for the eastern and for the southern neighbourhoods, with proper staffing and adequate budgetary resources”. It raises concerns over a “rapid expansion of Kremlin-inspired activities in Europe” that are “seeking to maintain or increase Russia's influence to weaken and split the EU”. The report adds that Vladimir Putin has devoted “huge resources” to “propaganda activities”, such as multilingual TV stations and “pseudo news agencies”, but also to funding pro-Russian think tanks and expat groups in Europe.

Ms Fotyga compares this to the Russian leader’s approach back home, where he has launched a brutal crackdown on journalists who do not tow the Kremlin line. She observes: “Since 1999, dozens of journalists have been killed, disappeared without trace or have been imprisoned in Russia.” And her report raises concerns that illiberal other regimes such as Iran and Turkey are “using strategies similar to those developed by Kremlin”.

The fight against ISIS Mon, September 19, 2016 The battle against ISIS militants (also abbreviated as Daesh, ISIL, IS and Islamic State) continues in the Middle East. Play slideshow 1 of 184