http://www.politico.com/story/2016/09/john-hickenlooper-hillary-clinton-227660
20
2
He was on Hillary Clinton’s veep shortlist and holds valuable political cred in a Western swing state. But Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper faces a green blockade that could dash his chances of leading her Interior Department if she wins the White House.

Environmentalists are sour on the Democratic governor for his outspoken defense of the oil and gas industry, in a state where two anti-fracking measures just failed to make the November ballot. They are warning Clinton against giving Hickenlooper power over the nation's fossil fuel resources as Interior secretary, a spot that presidents of both parties have often given to popular Westerners.

Story Continued Below

Choosing Hickenlooper — a former petroleum geologist — would mean picking a fight with a vocal part of the Democratic base at the very start of Clinton’s presidency, environmentalists say, sounding the same kind of warning that other progressive activists make about handing senior Treasury Department roles to Wall Street insiders. His support for fracking also contradicts the tough line Clinton took on the practice during her primary battle against Bernie Sanders.

"This is a line in the sand moment," said Diana Best, Greenpeace's senior campaigner in Denver. "People impacted by climate change and fossil fuel pollution cannot afford leaders like Gov. Hickenlooper, who choose oil profits over public health and safety, at any level of government."

"All the big greens would wind up against him," one Colorado environmental advocate said, discussing the governor's future on condition of anonymity. "He’s not done much for the conservation movement in general — it’s not just fracking. He just hasn’t done much. But he’s been so extreme on fracking that I think it’s going to present a problem for Hillary.”

Hickenlooper has won praise from environmental groups for his actions on climate change and water conservation, but he opposes giving localities the power to ban fracking, which Clinton has assured Coloradans she supports. At a POLITICO policy discussion during July’s Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia, he likened mandatory distances between fracking and homes to the kind of property seizure that "works fine in Russia or China."

Clinton has also pushed for allowing the EPA to regulate fracking fluid under the Safe Drinking Water Act, a power Congress stripped away during the George W. Bush administration. Meanwhile, Hickenlooper proudly told senators in 2013 that he has drunk the fluid to vouch for its safety.

"Fracking is good for the country’s energy supply, our national security, our economy, and our environment,” Hickenlooper wrote in his memoir, published in May.



Hickenlooper's "blind spot" on oil and gas is "a pretty widely held view" among environmental groups in the state, another Colorado activist said, even as some praise his proposals on other green issues.

At the same time, Hickenlooper would bring some serious advantages to the Interior post, including a 60 percent approval rating in a state with abundant natural resources. He fits the profile of the job too: All but one full-time Interior secretary since 1975 has hailed from a Western state, including former governors such as Bruce Babbitt of Arizona and Dirk Kempthorne of Idaho.

Floyd Ciruli, a veteran Colorado pollster and political analyst, noted that Hickenlooper's close ties to Clinton transition team leader Ken Salazar and Sen. Michael Bennet (D-Colo.), a superdelegate for the Democratic nominee, position the governor well for a Cabinet appointment. "He's an outsider, an entrepreneur, socially liberal but on energy and general market issues he tends toward the moderate side of things," Ciruli said. "That’s a good thing. That’s an asset."

Clinton's transition team is said to be in its earliest stages of vetting candidates for the thousands of positions her administration would have to fill next year, even as her party remains on guard for the presidential race to tighten in the coming months.

Hickenlooper, who is set to be term-limited out of office in 2018, has tried to deflect speculation about his potential role in a Clinton administration, even though he had sounded open to the vice presidency before she chose Virginia Sen. Tim Kaine as her running mate. "I think it's pretty unlikely that I would take a Cabinet position, to be pretty blunt," Hickenlooper said during the POLITICO event in July.

But that hasn't stopped whispers about the 64-year-old's possible political future with Clinton. Hickenlooper's lieutenant governor, Donna Lynne, has a strong managerial reputation and won unanimous approval from GOP state senators, suggesting a handover would be smooth if he joined Clinton’s Cabinet next year.

Hickenlooper’s prospects seemed brighter still when the former secretary of state chose Salazar, a former Colorado senator who served as President Barack Obama’s first Interior secretary, to lead her transition team. Back in 2010, Hickenlooper waited for Salazar to pass on a gubernatorial run before jumping into his first statewide race.

Hickenlooper also struck a more conciliatory tone on fracking on Tuesday, when he introduced former California Republican gubernatorial hopeful Meg Whitman at a Clinton event. Asked by the Denver Post about the state's two anti-fracking ballot measures, Hickenlooper said: “Just because they didn’t get on the ballot doesn’t mean that we shouldn’t respond to them.”

But the governor’s affinity for fracking would be an undeniable albatross for Clinton, who faced jabs from Sanders during the primaries because of her past praise for natural gas as a cleaner alternative to coal. After Sanders advocated a total nationwide ban on fracking, Clinton called for regulating the practice so thoroughly that “I do not think there will be many places in America where fracking will continue to take place.”

Fracking is just one of many issues in the Interior secretary’s portfolio, which also includes offshore drilling, national parks, endangered species and relations with American Indian tribes. But environmental groups still may not be able to get past Hickenlooper’s stance on it.

“Given his professional oil and gas background and his political oil and gas background, I have a difficult time seeing how even mainstream environmentalists would be comfortable with it,” said Colorado power broker Ted Trimpa, once dubbed the state’s Democratic version of Karl Rove.

But Trimpa, who also lobbies for oil and gas companies Noble and Encana, suggested that the former Denver mayor credited with helping revitalize the city’s downtown might safely land elsewhere in Clinton’s Cabinet. "He would rock it at Commerce," Trimpa said.

Another Colorado source agreed that Hickenlooper, having “made his fortune and his name in business,” could fit in well as Clinton’s commerce secretary. “I think there’s a strong case for that, but not a strong case for him to be anywhere near the nation’s energy policy.”

Ciruli, the veteran Colorado pollster, pointed to Hickenlooper's multiple overseas trips as governor as evidence of his affinity for encouraging free trade and foreign investment. "He saw his role as a trade representative and went out a lot," Ciruli said. "He was seen as pretty successful at it."

The oil and gas industry probably would cheer if Hickenlooper were named to lead Interior, which has broad authority over drilling on federal lands. But other contenders for the spot — such as former Sen. Mark Udall (D-Colo.) and David Hayes, Obama’s second-in-command at Interior — have received fewer black marks with climate activists.

Even Salazar’s role in the Clinton transition has made liberals and environmentalists wary, given his past support of the Trans-Pacific Partnership and his defense of fracking as a safe oil and gas extraction technique. The left wing of the environmental movement is even more incensed by Hickenlooper, heckling his appearance at POLITICO’s DNC event and hanging a massive banner that labeled him "Frackenlooper."

Even as speculation swirls about his political future, Hickenlooper's administration began passing around a draft executive order last week that would require Colorado to slash carbon pollution from its power sector by 35 percent by 2020, in addition to further planning for the impacts of climate change. His environmentalist critics were far from mollified, however.

Kevin Cross, spokesman for the Colorado Coalition for a Livable Climate, slammed the proposed order as “a greenwashing sham” that ignores methane emissions from oil and gas extraction. The industry’s methane pollution is a critical target of green activists that both Obama and Clinton have vowed to curb.