https://www.yahoo.com/news/frank-ocean-producer-malay-explains-album-delay-during-113337959.html
128
12
Frank Ocean collaborator Malay warned fans last week that he would not be giving updates on Ocean's eagerly awaited second album, Boys Don't Cry, during an upcoming AMA Reddit. Well, the Reddit happened on Monday night and, believe it or don't, the Channel Orange??co-producer (born James Ho)??eventually was pushed to say something, anything about the mysterious project in the chat on an Ocean-related page.??

As reported by??Fader, the crack in his facade came after one participant explained fans' frustration at the roll-out.??"I respect that you don't want us to ask about BDC and when it's going to come out. So in the interest of asking a question that acknowledges those boundaries while still addressing the elephant in the room, I'd like to know what you think about how fans have interacted with the rollout to this point," the fan wrote. "I think the major pain point for fans has been the fact that Frank has led us to believe there's something coming, and then he hasn't communicated with us at all."??

There's a Site That Will Alert You When Frank Ocean's Album Drops

The commentor??then ran down the list of teases, from the library card, to the maddening looped video of desks.??"I feel like I've put some amount of trust in Frank and gotten really excited about the rollout he's chosen to give us, but I believe that's been betrayed to an extent," Arrogantdesperado wrote.??

Malay was spurred to answer and defend his friend, whose debut returned??to the Billboard 200 last week after three years. "First of all we all massively appreciate and love you guys, Frank has told me this himself many times," he wrote. "To be fair tho, art cannot be rushed. It's about making sure the perfect aesthetic for the situation has been reached, to do that, takes constant tweaking, trial and error.. That goes for any creative sitution." He described Ocean's process as "very focused and persistent... yet very free."

Frank Ocean Posts Cryptic Workbench Video, What's He Trying to Tell Us?

The AMA also??touched on when the two first met (in Atlanta in 2008), their first joint project (writing a song for Mario) and what Ocean smells like ("if God was a woman"). But the most tantalizing tease from Malay came after his casual mention of something called the "Booty Club," to which a fan responded, "WHAT DOES BOOTY CLUB MEAN?"

Malay's answer was??cryptic at best. "Everyone will get a ticket to the booty club who wants one." You've been warned.