http://www.philstar.com:8080/headlines/2016/09/20/1625544/cbcp-rody-vowed-step-down-if...
120
12
MANILA, Philippines - What happened to the promise to resign?

Manila Auxiliary Bishop Broderick Pabillo yesterday said President Duterte is not a man of his word for seeking another six months to end the drug menace in the country instead of stepping down.

“In the campaign, he categorically said that the drug problem would be solved in six months or he would step down. But of course he is not a man of one word. His words cannot be trusted and he gives a lot of excuses,” Pabillo said.

“He made the people believe. Anybody in his right mind cannot claim that. Can he not see that his method is not effective?” Pabillo added.

Duterte has launched a brutal war on drugs, a campaign promise that struck a chord among voters that made him win the presidency.

So far, Duterte’s drug war has claimed the lives of at least 3,000 suspected drug users and pushers and innocent individuals.

Headlines ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1

The Philippine National Police (PNP) reported that around 1,200 suspected drug pushers and users were killed in police operations, 17,759 were arrested and 715,393 surrendered. At least 12 policemen were killed.

Pabillo said he believes that the government should instead shift its attention to the rehabilitation of drug dependents.

“It should be rehabilitation and implement a stronger anti-poverty campaign. He should also root out corruption in the police and the government. Where are the generals and the mayors who have been punished? Are there any?” the bishop asked.

‘Comprehensive solution’

Malacañang, for its part, appealed for understanding because the President needs more time to come up with a “comprehensive solution” to the drug menace.

“As a matter of fact, the 700,000 people (who surrendered) can already be included in the Guinness Book of World Records. Our campaign has been relentless. There are so many offenders that we already sought the help of the Armed Forces of the Philippines,” Communications Secretary Martin Andanar told radio dwFM.