http://www.sfgate.com/news/crime/article/I-m-being-punished-says-woman-jailed-to-testify-9245117.php
120
12
'I'm being punished,' says woman jailed to testify

HILLSBORO, Ore. (AP) — Brandy Lee Buckmaster is among 56 women filling two stories of cells in the female general population unit at the Washington County Jail in Hillsboro. From her second-floor window, she can see the corrections deputies come and go.

She's been there for 38 days -- lights on at 5 a.m., breakfast 30 minutes later, lunch at 10:30 in the morning and dinner around 5 p.m. She's one of about 500 women and men at the jail spending each of their days that way.

But, according to jail records, she's the only one who hasn't been accused or convicted of breaking the law.

Buckmaster, 41, is an alleged victim of a crime, one that the state says occurred behind prison walls. She's been jailed on a material witness hold, with bail set at $50,000, awaiting the trial of Brian Balzer, an ex-corrections officer.

Balzer is accused of having sex with her while she was an inmate at Coffee Creek Correctional Facility in Wilsonville nearly four years ago.

Buckmaster spoke Friday to The Oregonian/OregonLive from inside a visiting room in the jail's lobby. She had pulled her curly reddish-brown hair into a single braid. She wore standard inmate garb: orange shirt, pink T-shirt beneath it, and green-and-white striped pants.

Her hope is that speaking out will help others report alleged sexual misconduct or abuse in prisons and will change the Oregon law that allows material witnesses to be jailed for an unlimited number of days.

"I'm being punished," she said. "I'm the one in jail. I feel like I'm the one being accused of something."

Balzer, 42, remains free after posting bail in December. He's charged with one count each of first-degree custodial sexual misconduct and supplying contraband. His trial is set for Oct. 4.

Buckmaster is worried that the date will get pushed back.

"I don't want to be here anymore," she told her attorney, Betsy Rawls, through a window in the visiting room.

The Oregonian/OregonLive doesn't generally identify alleged victims of sex crimes, but Buckmaster wanted her name used. She also gave an earlier jail interview to The Guardian.

The sounds of jail - deputies laughing as they talk with each other, the thud of heavy doors, jail keys jingling on a belt - take her back to her days at Coffee Creek and remind her of what happened there, she said.

Buckmaster arrived in Hillsboro on Aug. 16, after serving 20 days in custody in Lane County for violating her parole. The violation came after a methamphetamine relapse last winter, she said, that led to her failing drug tests and eventually to her failing to check in with her parole officer. During that time, the Washington County District Attorney's Office, which is prosecuting the Balzer case, issued a material witness warrant for Buckmaster because the state feared she wouldn't show up at the former guard's trial to testify.

A material witness is someone with information about a case who has been deemed unlikely to appear at trial.

Buckmaster said she had little understanding of what the warrant meant until she arrived in Washington County. Her attorney told her about the county's controversial decision to jail a material witness in a murder case for more than 900 days until his release last year.

Buckmaster has been in jails before, and she's served a variety of sentences at Coffee Creek dating to 1996, including convictions for various drug crimes, identity theft and burglary.

But this stay, she said, has been different. "This time is the most difficult because I didn't do anything wrong," she said. "I'm not the one to blame."

She's spent plenty of time blaming herself anyway, she said. She's wondered whether she brought it on herself, whether she deserved what happened.

She describes spending her days reading, pacing in her cell and dreaming about building a treehouse far out in the woods away from everything.

The reality of jail is constant: It's cold. It's lonely. And everything costs money - which she has little to spend on things like shampoo or phone calls, she said.

She already owes the jail $21 for buying hygiene products - an expense she'll repay with the money the state owes her for being a material witness. She's making $7.50 a day.

Buckmaster said she doesn't understand why she can't give a deposition, why she can't wear an ankle-monitoring bracelet, or why she can't agree to check in daily with her parole officer. Last week, prosecutor Dan Hesson objected in court papers to Buckmaster providing a deposition.

But she hopes her story can help change the law and put different practices in place.

"It won't help me now," she said.

"It doesn't help you now," her attorney replied.

But, they agreed, it might help someone some day.

As they spoke, a deputy from the lobby approached the room. "It's past visiting time," he called over.

Out went her visitors and Buckmaster walked back in.

___

Information from: The Oregonian/OregonLive, http://www.oregonlive.com