http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/713172/Calais-migrants-UK-lorries-Wall-of-French-police
20
2
Shocking footage caught the moment French police were forced to fight back hundreds who tried to storm a Calais road. Migrants, desperate to reach the UK, wreaked havoc along the town's roads yesterday afternoon as they attempted to sneak onto British-bound lorries. The chaos on the busy French roads unfolded just a day after work began on the £2million wall outside Calais began.

GETTY Violence broke out in the so-called 'Jungle' refugee camp in Calais

In footage of the clashes, police were filmed trying desperately to detain migrants, who threw objects at the French officials and UK-bound lorries. They were forced to deploy tear gas canisters to repel more than 300 migrants, who were seen wandering along roads towards the Calais port. In the video, the migrants can be seen trying to halt lorries in order to sneak onto lorries to reach Britain. At one point, a migrant climbs out of a lorry heading to Britain after being spotted by police in the port.

AP Riot police disperse migrants with tear gas

GETTY Work continued on a controversial British taxpayer-funded £2m wall in the area

Police also set up barricades and closed the main ring road next to the camp. A local police source said: "Missiles were thrown at officers, and migrants tried to get out of the camp, and on to nearby roads. Their aim was to stop lorries heading for Britain." One police officer suffered an injured shoulder during the violence while one migrant arrested for throwing objects at police officers. Migrants are turning to increasingly desperate measures to get to Britain before the half-a-mile long 13-ft high Wall of Calais is complete, by the end of this year. The wall is designed to prevent migrants from accessing trucks making their way to Calais and towards Dover.

Jungle Migrant Camp in protests Mon, October 3, 2016 Up to 10,000 migrants are now living at the camp and are using desperate and violent measures to try and board trucks heading for the UK. Play slideshow REUTERS 1 of 24 Demonstrators protest near the area called the

However, many lorry drivers have decried the Calais wall as a waste of money. Road Haulage Association spokeswoman Kate Gibbs said: "This is being called the Great Wall of Calais but what good will it do? "This will be a tiny concrete alleyway that will serve very little purpose and not provide any security." There are an estimated 10,000 migrants still living in squadl conditions in the Jungle camp. French Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve announced this month that the camp would be shut down "as quickly as possible".

GETTY The migrants tried to get into lorries heading to Britain