http://www.dailymail.co.uk/indiahome/indianews/article-3833141/Life-Line-Control-Banners-laud-army-snipers-hunters.html
120
12
For army snipers donning camouflaged battle-gear, Dushman Shikaar, Hum Shikaari is the duty mantra as they guard the highly sensitive Line of Control (LoC).

Ply boards with the slogan written on them dot pine tree tops on the foot-tracks of patrolling parties and border woods along LoC.

Snipers and soldiers, whose morale has risen further after the surgical strikes on terrorist launch pads in Pakistan occupied Kashmir (KoP), are out to give a fitting reply to any ceasefire violation by Pakistan and foil infiltration attempts of terrorists.

Even the movement of a cat is watched with electronic gadgets, say army officials

Pointing towards a ply-card motto nailed to a pine tree on foot patrolling track along a three-tier fence, Sniper Ram Singh (name changed) said, “The enemy sitting across the Lakshman Rekha (LoC) is my prey and I am his hunter.

"We work as per this motto for those daring to cross the Lakshman Rekha.” Singh, along with other snipers, are highly trained to hit specific enemies daring to breach the LoC.

Like snipers, the motto is no different for jawans and officers monitoring the forward post who undertake foot patrolling along the LoC amid electronic surveillance.

Snipers are highly trained to hit specific enemies daring to breach the Line of Control

Such surveillance is necessary to guard the Indo- Pak border in Noushera sector of Rajouri district, which falls opposite to Bhimbher district of PoK, where heavily armed special forces hit terror launch pads in a well-planned pre-dawn surgical strike last month.

Noushera sector - with thick coniferous woods, deep valleys, rock-cut mountains is now a target of the Pakistani troops post the strike.

Noushera sector was once the biggest infiltration area as there were huge launching pads and terrorist training camps in the Bhimbher- Samahni-Nikyal belt across LoC.

“We are most vigilant along the LoC. We cannot even for a moment keep LoC out of manual and electronic sight. We cannot trust Pakistani troops. They are insulted following surgical strike,” said another soldier at the forward post.