http://martini.heraldscotland.com/news/14756242.Scottish_Greens__Taskforce_to_target_dog_fighting_should_be_set_up/
20
2
The Scottish Greens have called for a taskforce to root out dog fighting in Scotland, with only one prosecution in the last 25 years.

Legal affairs minister Annabelle Ewing said dog fighting is "largely clandestine activity" and urged members of the public to come forward if they have information about fights in Scotland.

Green MSP Mark Ruskell said the government should go further with the formation of a taskforce.

Ms Ewing said: "The Scottish Government supports the vital role of the Scottish Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SSPCA) and the police in dealing with organised dog fighting.

"Scottish ministers have granted authorised inspectors from the SSPCA the same powers as local authority inspectors in relation to animal welfare offences.

"These powers differ only from police constables in relation to the arrest of an offender.

"Dog fighting is a largely clandestine activity and detection by enforcement bodies is greatly dependent upon information supplied by concerned members of the public."

Mr Ruskell said: "The SSPCA reported to us that the police have only successfully prosecuted one individual for dog fighting since 1991.

"We know that there is a particular link in Scotland to the activities of criminal gangs, so will the Scottish Government consider setting up a taskforce on animal fighting to share information, track those that have been convicted of animal abuse in the past and help bring more cases to conviction?"

Ms Ewing said: "In the period 2013 to 2016, there was only one case of dog fighting reported to the Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal Service.

"That, I understand, led to a successful prosecution and a conviction was forthcoming.

"If the member wants to bring forward further information in relation to this issue, I would be happy to look at it."

Later, Mr Ruskell said: "Our understanding is that only one person has been prosecuted for a dog-fighting related offence since 1991 as a result of a police-led investigation.

"I think most people in Scotland will be worried about this despicable form of organised animal cruelty.

"The minister confirmed that the barbaric act is very difficult for agencies to detect and is almost impossible to prevent and prosecute without tip-offs from the public.

"I'm pleased that the minister is open to how to tackle the problem. Considering the illegal gambling aspect associated with dogfighting, I hope the Scottish Government will consider setting up an animal fighting taskforce to share information across organisations, track those who have been convicted of animal abuse crimes in the past and bring cases of animal fighting to conviction.

"We can't allow gangsters to continue this activity with such little chance of prosecution."