http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3812692/Agony-Coronation-Street-star-Johnny-Briggs-daughter-granddaughter-jailed-string-petty-bike-thefts-fund-heroin-habit.html
125
12
Coronation Street star Johnny Briggs' daughter and granddaughter are behind bars once again for a string of petty thefts to fund their ongoing battles with heroin.

Serial thief Karen Briggs, who is the daughter of the former Corrie star, and her 28-year-old daughter Emma Beach have been jailed for a total of two years.

The pair have struggled with drug addiction for a number of years and have appeared before the courts numerous times for more than 70 offences.

Their latest jail stint comes following a string of pedal bike thefts from a train station.

Serial thief and heroin addict Karen Briggs (left), who is the daughter of the former Corrie star, and her 28-year-old daughter Emma Beach (right) have been jailed for a total of two years

Briggs, 51, was jailed last week for nine months after breaching a criminal behaviour order and stealing a bicycle from Cobham Rail Station in Surrey on June 21 and July 18. Her daughter admitted the same offences, as well as stealing a bike from a separate station earlier in July. She was jailed for 15 months.

The mother and daughter, from Cobham, Surrey, who both have a history of shoplifting and drug abuse, were sentenced at Guildford Crown Court.

Their father and grandfather, Johnny Briggs, who played Mike Baldwin in Coronation Street from 1976 to 2012 and received an MBE in 2007, has since disowned them.

They are said to have carried out 100 thefts between them to fund their heroin addiction, which Beach took up aged just 14 after being influenced by her mother.

They previously appeared at Reading Crown Court in October 2014, charged with the theft of of £278 of alcohol from Waitrose in Sunningdale, Berkshire and were banned from going into the supermarket again.

The pair were then hauled before the courts again in January 2015 for stealing £400 worth of Yankee Candles from a branch of Clinton Cards, in Walton-on-Thames. For that offence, Briggs was jailed for six months, while Beach was given a treatment order.

This was on the grounds that her mother was a bad influence and all of Beach's drug-taking, since she was a teenager, had involved her mother.

Johnny Briggs, who played Mike Baldwin in Coronation Street, receiving an MBE in 2007

Johnny Briggs (pictured with Amanda Barrie) played Mike Baldwin in Corrie from 1976 to 2012

The pair were then arrested again in August 2015 for shoplifting from a Marks and Spencer store. Briggs was confined to home by the law and barred from shopping with her daughter following the incident.

She was then banned from spending more than two hours a day with her daughter.

The ban was ordered by magistrates in Staines, Surrey, last year after the troubled pair were convicted of stealing booze from a high street store in the town.

Briggs had earlier been jailed for 150 days in 1999 after stealing £5,000 of her mother's jewellery. In 2001 she was sentenced to 30 months for her part in a burglary in which a pub landlord was stabbed and she was jailed again for nine months after stealing from churches in Cobham in 2011.

Prior to their latest offences, Briggs had tallied 32 convictions for 52 offences, while Beach had clocked up 16 convictions for 23 offences.

Their latest prison sentence was handed to them after a joint operation by British Transport Police and Surrey Police caught them stealing bikes from rail stations.

Emma Beach and Karen Briggs , granddaughter and daughter of the ex-Corrie star, in 2005

Prior to their latest offences, Briggs (pictured left in 2000) had tallied 32 convictions for 52 offences, while Beach (seen right in 2006) had clocked up 16 convictions for 23 offences

A British Transport Police spokesman said: 'Briggs was charged with four breaches of a criminal behaviour order and one count of a pedal cycle theft at Cobham rail station on June 21. She was sentenced to nine months imprisonment.

'Beach was charged with four counts of breaching a criminal behaviour order, thefts of a pedal cycle at Cobham rail station on June 21 and July 18. She also stole a bike from Oxshott rail station on July 18. She was sentenced to 15 month imprisonment.

'Both appeared before Guildford Crown Court on the September 22 where they pleaded guilty to all offences and were sentenced.'

Police constable Marc Farmer said: 'I am pleased that the joint partnership working between us and Surrey Police has put these two women behind bars stopping them from re-offending.