http://usa.onlinenigeria.com/news/155753-el-chapo-s-wife-files-complaint-after-conjugal-visits-were-cut-from-four-hours-to-two.html
128
12
Sales says Guzman must be monitored since he has escaped prison twice

Commissioner Renato Sales says that is not true and his health is fine

Claims that Guzman is kept in isolation and denied family, lawyer visits

She has filed a lawsuit saying that Guzman's health is declining in prison

Emma Coronel, Joaquin 'El Chapo' Guzman's wife, says their time to get intimate was recently cut from four hours to just two hours

El Chapo's wife says conjugal visits with husband have become too short

By Associated Press

Published: 14:10 EST, 25 October 2016 | Updated: 02:35 EST, 26 October 2016

Joaquin 'El Chapo' Guzman's wife has filed a lawsuit after she says conjugal visits with her husband were cut from four hours down to just two.

Emma Coronel is said to be furious that the two do not have enough time to get intimate among other complains.

Coronel also claims her husband's health is failing behind bars as he is kept isolated from other people, denied visits from his lawyer and family, and is nearing the brink of madness, according to Fox News Latino.

But Mexico's national security commissioner insisted Tuesday that drug lord El Chapo's health is fine. He also said the two hour limit wouldn't budge.

Joaquin 'El Chapo' Guzman's wife Emma Coronel (pictured) is allegedly furious that her conjugal visits with her husband have been cut from four hours to two

Coronel has filed a lawsuit over the time reduction and additionally says her husband is being mistreated in prison

Commissioner Renato Sales told Imagen Radio that Guzman is kept isolated but does get visits from family and lawyers, contradicting Coronel's complaints.

'He is not subject to torture of course, nor degrading or inhuman treatment,' Sales said.

Sales says Guzman has to be kept isolated and under close supervision because he has escaped from prison twice before.

He says Guzman gets exercise in the yard every day and Coronel has visited the drug lord 35 times, along with their twin daughters and sisters.

'His health condition is OK – acceptable for any 60-year-old man,' Sales said. 'We are open to his family members going to Human Rights and have [Human Rights] set up an office in detention centers in coming years so they can monitor the rights of every single inmate.

But Mexico's national security commissioner insisted Tuesday that drug lord El Chapo's (left) health is fine. He also said the two hour limit wouldn't budge (Coronel pictured right)

On Monday, Coronel filed a complaint with Mexico's National Human Rights Commission complaining about Guzman's alleged treatment in prison.

She told local media Monday outside the commission's Mexico City office that she had just filed the complaint over Guzman's health.

Coronel has filed complaints before to pressure the government to improve conditions for the Sinaloa cartel's leader.

Guzman was rearrested in January after escaping from a maximum-security prison last year.

Commissioner Renato Sales says Guzman has to be kept isolated and under close supervision because he has escaped from prison twice before

He also says Guzman gets exercise in the yard every day and Coronel has visited the drug lord 35 times, along with their twin daughters and sisters

He is fighting extradition to the U.S. from the northern border state of Chihuahua.

A judge last week rejected five appeals Guzman filed to avoid extradition. He can still ask a higher court to review the judge's rejection.

Sales also suggested that Guzman's cartel, and even one of his brothers who was not named, was responsible for an ambush in Culiacan at the end of September that killed five soldiers.

'The investigation points to people close to this person,' Sales said.