http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/teacher-pictured-bed-after-having-8733566
125
12
Isabelle Graham, pictured with her husband Andrew Wilkie, has been banned from teaching after she was accused of having sex with one of her pupils on prom night

A French teacher who was allegedly pictured in bed after having sex with one of her teenage pupils on his prom night has been banned from the profession.

A disciplinary hearing ruled that 27-year-old Isabelle Graham, 27, had spent three hours alone with the teenager, where they drank alcohol and shared a bed before “repeatedly engaging in sexual activity”.

The practising Christian, who wasn't present at the General Teaching Council for Scotland hearing in Edinburgh today, denied the allegations, instead claiming she had been the victim.

The panel was earlier told that Graham, who has already quit her job at Whitburn Academy in West Lothian, had claimed her drink had been spiked and she had no memory of the events of that night.

It comes after a picture emerged purporting to show the blonde lying in bed as a young, believed to be the boy named in the charges, stands in the doorway.

Daily Record This picture purports to show Isabelle Graham in bed while a young man, believed to be the boy named in the charges, stands in the doorway

Daily Record Isabelle Graham allegedly went back to a hotel with the teenager, where they drank and slept together

She has been backed by her husband Andrew Wilkie, who is training for the clergy, and says he is certain she is telling the truth.

But a policeman called to give evidence yesterday said CCTV from the night showed no evidence of her drink having been spiked.

DS Keith Mailer also said there was no evidence of it when she was tested at a hospital.

He said: “Throughout the footage there’s no sign Ms Graham is under the excessive influence of drugs or alcohol.”

Footage also showed the teacher and student kissing, he said.

Daily Record The Travelodge Hotel in Waterloo Place where the alleged incident took place

He added: “The way she moved and conducted herself suggested someone who was making conscious decisions.”

Police raised charges against Graham but the procurator fiscal did not pursue them, citing a lack of evidence.

Wilkie represented his wife – who he married last summer – at a procedural GTCS hearing last month.

At that hearing, the couple tried unsuccessfully to have the case against Graham heard in private.

Isabelle Graham did not attend the hearing but released a statement denying the allegations

Isabelle Graham, who was struk off, pictured with her husband Andrew Wilkie, who represented her at an earlier hearing

Graham did not attend the hearing yesterday and had no representation there.

The teacher, who now lives in England, turned down the opportunity to take part via video link.

The GTCS case presenter, Carla Roth, today addressed the panel on the seriousness of the charges.

She said Mrs Graham's actions had a "public nature", having happened around pupils and with the image shared on social media.

She said that Mrs Graham's actions left pupils "uncomfortable" and "somewhat shocked" and told the panel: "You would have to question what sort of role model was provided in this instance."

The couple were engaged when the alleged incident happened in June 2014

Isabelle Graham told the panel her drink had been spiked on the night of the prom

Turning to the teacher's claim that her drink had been spiked, Ms Roth said this "is essentially no more than a speculation".

She added: "We simply have no evidence of exactly why she may have had a memory loss."

Mrs Graham was "only willing to consider one version of events", said Ms Roth, that her drink had been spiked rather than that she had drunk too much.

"She cannot be said to have shown any insight into her conduct," declared the lawyer.

The GTCS charges levelled against Graham claimed she spent three hours alone with the teenager, who is identified only as Pupil A, and “repeatedly engaging in sexual activity”.

The charge in full read: "On 5 June or 6 June 2014 or overnight, whilst employed as a teacher at Whitburn Academy and following the school's Sixth Year Prom at Carlton Highland Hotel, North Bridge, Edinburgh, you did accompany Pupil A and other pupils to the Travelodge, Waterloo Place, Edinburgh, where you did have inappropriate contact with Pupil A.

Deadline News Isabelle Graham, pictured with two friends who have not been identified, is accused of spending three hours alone with the pupil

Daily Record Former teacher Isabelle Graham with her husband Andrew Wilkie, who is standing by her

"You did spend approximately three hours alone with Pupil A in an hotel room. Share an alcoholic drink with Pupil A (age 17 at the time). Share a bed with Pupil A. Repeatedly engage in sexual activity with Pupil A.

"And in light of the above it is alleged that your fitness to teach is impaired."

The alleged encounter happened after the pair left the upmarket Carlton Highland hotel in central Edinburgh where the prom took place in June 2014 and went to a nearby Travelodge.

The hearing was shown the photo of the room and was told it was taken by another pupil who was sharing a room with Pupil A.

That boy said he returned numerous times to the room to find Graham in the bed.

Council employee Fraser Thomson, who investigated the case, said their inquiry began after senior teaching staff found out the photo from the hotel room had been uploaded on social media.

He added evidence from students outlined how they saw “Pupil A and Ms Graham lying on the bed, one on top of the covers and one underneath”.

Daily Record Whitburn Academy where Isabelle Graham was working at the time of the alleged incident

The official said Graham told him the four glasses of wine she had drunk would not normally

intoxicate her to that level.

She said of the photograph: “It looks like my hair,” but she denied recognising the young man in the photograph.

In the statement Graham provided to be read in her defence at the hearing, she claimed that she had been the “victim” on the night in question – reiterating that she had no recollection of the events.

She said that if the photo did feature her, she was clearly unconscious at the time and therefore it was “posed” without her consent.

She went on: “The person in the bed in the photo is clearly not in control of the situation.”

Responding to DS Mailer’s claim that CCTV evidence showed no signs of intoxication, she also claimed that date rape drugs are available which leave victims lucid but hinder their decision-making ability.

Daily Record Edinburgh's Carlton Highland Hotel where the prom night took place

She added that she was an “active and practising Christian” who was “waiting until marriage” before having sex.

Her husband said: “In all the time I have known her, she has always put her Christian faith above all other things. I have never had any doubt that the allegations made against her were false.”

He also accused West Lothian Council of making “slanderous comments”.