http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/713523/French-mayors-unite-stop-towns-new-Calais
20
2
FN*GETTY Mr Briois has warned against Calais being replicated across France

Steeve Briois, who is one of the vice-presidents of the FN, created the association 'My town without migrants' and has called on other French mayors to join him. The French Government is attempting to close down the Calais Jungle camp by sending 12,000 migrants to various towns across France. Mr Briois said: “The Government has decided to displace the migrants from Calais to towns and villages across France without any thought about what the mayors or the population think.

GETTY The far-right in France has picked up support due to the migrant crisis

“The Government has decided to displace the migrants from Calais to towns and villages across France without any thought about what the mayors or the population think Steeve Briois

“The association is for the 36,000 mayors of France regardless of their political affiliation. Opposition to the invasion of migrants has become a problem that transcends party lines.” He said: “We want to be firm against the arrival of migrants to our towns.” The politician said that he did not want to see replicas of Calais recreated across France.

The hardships of migrant life Thu, March 10, 2016 The hardships and heart-wrenching pictures of migrant life across the globe, including Greek-Macedonian border conditions and Calais migrant conditions. Play slideshow Getty 1 of 53 The hardships of migrant life

Speaking to a French television channel, he said: “It is out of the question that what happened in Calais can be repeated across France, we have to say stop.” Front National mayor Dominique Bilde said: “We understand that these migrant centres could house at least 100 people, which in a village of 1,000 is 10 per cent of the population.” Ms Bilde said she feared that a proportion of the migrants would be dangerous with a history of violence or Islamic fundamentalism.

GETTY The mayors are concerned about the influx of migrants in their towns

The mayor said: ”Meanwhile we are neglecting French homeless people. The state is saying: ‘Life of a castle for the migrants, the gutter for the homeless’.” The newly appointed director of Marine Le Pen’s presidential campaign, David Rachline, congratulated Mr Briois’ group. Mr Rachline, who is also the mayor of Frejus, tweeted: “Frejus will not welcome anyone and will not become the new Calais.”

GETTY The FN mayor is calling on all of the mayors to join the group