http://dailytimes.com.pk/islamabad/11-Oct-16/mushaal-rehman-condemn-rights-violations-in-ihk
120
12
ISLAMABAD: Mushaal Hussein Malik, wife of a detained Kashmiri freedom fighter and Jammu Kashmir Liberation Front (JKFL) Chairman Mohammad Yasin Malik, and Senator Rehman Malik on Monday condemned the human rights (HR) violations in Indian-held Kashmir (IHK).

According to reports, Mushaal Hussein Malik called on Chairman of Senate Standing Committee on Interior and Narcotics Control, Senator Rehman Malik, at his residence in Islamabad. She was accompanied by her three-year-old daughter Raziya Sultana and her mother.

During the meeting, Mushaal and the senator discussed in detail the human rights violations taking place in IHK and about the arrest of Mohammad Yasin Malik by Indian forces.

"Mohammad Yasin Malik and his family were fighting peacefully for their very basic right of self-determination, as per the United Nations Security Council Resolution, yet he was kept in illegal custody", said Senator Rehman Malik.

Both the leaders held a joint press conference and strongly condemned the Indian forces for their brutalities against innocent Kashmiris and urged the United Nation (UN) to stop India. "The family of Mohammad Yasin Malik has been suffering for last two years, as he is in unlawful detention and his family was denied the right of meeting him in jail," said Senator Rehman Malik.

"I was shocked to see that the United Nations was not taking any action against the killing of innocent Kashmiris and violations of human rights in IHK," he said.

He informed the media that he had already written a letter to the UN general secretary and the UN human rights commissioner diverting their attentions towards the brutalities carried out by Indian forces in IHK, adding that he had written another letter to the UN human rights commissioner regarding the arrest of Mohammad Yasin Malik.

Senator Rehman Malik wrote to the UN that "Mohammad Yasin Malik, who is a political activist, and heads the JKLF group, was taken into custody by Indian forces, on July 9. He wrote that Yasin Malik had been shifted to the notorious Joint Interrogation Centre at Humhuma in IHK, where he was being inflicted with inhuman torture and solitary confinement, without access to basic medical care. He is a patient of a kidney disease and has a metallic valve in his heart, the senator wrote. He lost 15kilogrammes of weight, due to the torture and his health was at risk. According to information received from IHK, the Indian Army took him to a hospital, where the army was informed that Yasin Malik was in a critical condition and doctors recommended his immediate admission in the intensive care unit (ICU) for treatment. However, the Indian Army denied this basic right and took him back to the Joint Interrogation Centre. "I urge you to intervene justly, and to persuade Indian Government in allowing his family to visit Mohammad Yasin Malik, and to provide him the basic health facilities at the earliest," the senator wrote in the letter.

While talking to media, Senator Rehman Malik said that "Yasin Malik's three- year- old daughter, Raziya Sultana, and wife, Mushaal Hussain Malik, have not seen Mohammad Yasin Malik for the last two years and they do not know in what condition he is."