http://www.nation.co.ke/news/politics/-Kidero-alleges-plot-to-rig-primary/1064-3381578-s0csya/
120
12
By ISAAC ONGIRI

More by this Author

By PETER LEFTIE

More by this Author

ODM on Wednesday sought to quell a raging storm within its ranks after Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero claimed there was a plot to rig the party primaries.

However, party executive director Oduor Ong’wen clarified that there were no preferred candidates who would be given certificates without going through the nominations.

“ODM finds allegations that some people have paid or are about to pay money to certain individuals to influence their nomination for various seats disturbing. Those claiming to have done so with the view to influencing their nomination next year are attempting to subvert our rules and regulations of nominations and if found, will face automatic disqualification,” he said.

Mr Ong’wen was responding to concerns raised by Dr Kidero that party director of elections Junet Mohamed had revealed that ODM had decided not to hand him a ticket to run in the 2017 General Election.

In a letter to acting secretary-general Agnes Zani dated September 7, Dr Kidero claimed that Mr Mohamed said at a Nairobi restaurant on September 5 that he (Kidero) would not be the party’s candidate for the Nairobi governor’s seat since it had been decided that he be denied the ticket.

The governor demanded that the party reassure him and other members that the outcome of the nominations for governors and other elective posts had not been predetermined.

In response, Mr Ong’wen maintained that members of the National Executive Committee (NEC) had no role to play in the primaries and should keep off the process, which he said was the sole prerogative of the National Elections Board.

Contacted on Wednesday, Mr Mohammed declined to comment on the matter.

But sources close to Dr Kidero said the governor had confronted Mr Mohammed over the claims during the party’s 10th anniversary celebrations in Mombasa last Saturday only for the Suna East MP to say that he was only joking.

DENY HIM TICKET

Dr Kidero is said to have complained that similar jokes were behind Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya’s defection to the new Jubilee Party last week.

Mr Mvurya had two weeks ago complained that ODM was plotting to deny him the ticket, hence his decision to ditch the party.

Sources, including MPs, told the Nation on Tuesday that there was a plot by some politicians to ensure that the IEBC does not conduct the nominations to allow room for rigging.

Kisumu East MP Shakeel Shabbir said some politicians were boasting that they had already bagged the party’s certificates and did not want the IEBC to conduct the nominations.

Kisumu West MP Olago Aluoch said the issue of funding should not be used to block the IEBC from conducting the primaries.

But Nyando MP Fred Outa differed, saying he didn’t think the IEBC would have the time to run the primaries and still plan for the General Election.

He said the only way the party could regain its credibility is to ensure IEBC conducts its primaries especially in its strongholds like Luo Nyanza.

“This will end the culture where some leaders take money from aspirants and in return secure for them ODM certificates or at times even fail to do so,” the Kisumu East MP added.

Additional reporting by Justus Ochieng