http://www.khmertimeskh.com/news/29895/opposition-calls-for-dialogue/
120
12
The opposition Cambodia National Rescue Party (CNRP) called for a resumption of dialogue with the ruling Cambodian People’s Party (CPP) on Saturday and offered to halt future mass demonstrations, warning that if there were no improvements soon then protests would likely increase as a result.



Speaking to a group of youth supporters outside the party headquarters, CNRP spokesperson Yim Sovann stressed that active discussion between the two parties to resolve the current political situation was in both of their best interests.



He appealed to the CPP to come to the table to seek solutions before next year’s commune elections.



“I’m begging…Please solve the problem, do not let it lead to mass demonstrations across the county.



“To be honest, I am afraid of demonstrations and protests too. We have held protests for more than 21 years, since the first one involving our president Sam Rainsy and more than 4,000 garment workers.



“Protests happen every day, but for the last three years, it has been quiet,” he said, referencing the recent period of improved dialogue after the violence that followed the disputed 2013 national elections.



“So do not force us,” Mr. Sovann cautioned.



There are no mass demonstrations presently scheduled, he said, but a large gathering at the party’s headquarters in southern Phnom Penh is expected to take place on October 23 to mark the anniversary of the Paris Peace Agreement.



CPP spokesperson Sok Eysan welcomed the call for negotiation and discussion, but said it must occur strictly within a framework of solving the current political issues, rather than seek to help the current CNRP members now facing legal threats.



“Only after the courts have finished the cases of those leaders and supporters of the CNRP can political talk be resumed. Otherwise, it will not happen,” he said.



“They can protest, but once it’s against the law, the authorities will take legal action,” he warned.



CNRP president Mr. Rainsy is now in self-imposed exile in France on defamation charges, while CNRP acting president Kem Sokha has spent the last three months living at the party headquarters after his refusal to attend court over allegations of involvement in prostitution.



He was sentenced to five months in prison last month over the issue, but has refused to comply. Several other CNRP members are either in jail, or abroad, facing various legal charges.



Last week, Prime Minister Hun Sen warned that authorities would use force to ensure that no CNRP demonstrations take place. Describing them as “rebel movements,” he said the order was needed to ensure security.



On Saturday night, Mr. Hun Sen took to Facebook to stress that Cambodia was not facing a domestic crisis, but blamed tensions on Mr. Sokha’s trial. He denied that the CNRP held the support of the population, while the CPP only had the army’s support.



“The ruling party has more supporters compared with the opposition party, and that means the government has both people and armed forces to secure peace for the country,” he wrote.



Speaking to supporters yesterday, Mr. Sokha said he was not calling for an overthrow of the government, but rather that the two parties must work together to ensure the upcoming elections – commune in 2017, and national in 2018 – are peaceful and transparent.



“I want to stress that we are not planning a revolution or a coup so please lead the country until 2018. Do not worry about such things,” he said.



“We only ask that you prepare a political environment with proper equality and justice for citizens that will allow them to reflect their willingness and ability to decide the fate of their country by themselves.”



The much heralded “culture of dialogue,” which in July 2015 had been strong enough for Mr. Rainsy and Mr. Hun Sen and their families to pose together for dinner and photos, is widely recognized as being now over.



Increased international attention on the current political situation in Cambodia has led to criticism and warnings from many sources, most recently the United Nations.



Last Wednesday, 39 countries called on the government to de-escalate the current political tensions. It noted the use of the courts to “disproportionately” pursue government critics and acknowledged that the “culture of dialogue” had ceased to function.



Cambodia’s ambassador to the UN, Ney Sam Ol, responded that Cambodia did not welcome interference in its internal politics.