http://usa.onlinenigeria.com/headlines/146731-great-british-bake-off-s-paul-hollywood-hints-he-ll-remain-after-it-is-sold-to-channel-4.html
125
12
Paul Hollywood, pictured today outside his home in Wingham, has played down suggestions he will quit Bake Off

Paul Hollywood has played down suggestions he will quit the Great British Bake Off saying the matter is out of his hands and he is 'just a judge'.

The baker, a judge on the show alongside Mary Berry, has so far remained tight-lipped about whether he will stick with the programme when it transfers to Channel 4.

But today the 50-year-old - who has so far been a vocal supporter of the show staying on the BBC - hinted he will continue judging, insisting the decision was not up to him.

He told The Sun's TV Magazine: 'It's not my call. I work for Love Productions. I work for the Bake Off. I'm just a judge.'

Hollywood's comments have mounted pressure on Mary Berry, who was seen today at her Buckinghamshire home for the first time since news of the deal emerged on Monday.

Last night, her husband said Ms Berry was so far not 'signing anything' with Channel 4 and that what her Bake Off colleagues chose to do 'would be a factor' in her final decision.

Sue Perkins and Mel Giedroyc, who front the hit baking show, have already announced they will be standing down from the show when it leaves the BBC.

It means Channel 4 has a battle on its hands to hold onto the show's star judges and maintain the programme's popularity.

In a candid statement about the move, Mel and Sue said they had made 'no secret' of their desire for the show to stay with the BBC where they said it had been 'nurtured'.

The friends added: 'The BBC nurtured the show from its infancy and helped give it its distinctive warmth and charm, growing it from an audience of two million to nearly 15 at its peak.

'We've had the most amazing time on Bake Off, and have loved seeing it rise and rise like a pair of yeasted Latvian baps.

'We're not going with the dough. We wish all the future bakers every success.'

Channel 4 confirmed yesterday that none of the stars had signed a contract but said they would be 'delighted' if the team wanted to join.

Mary Berry, 81 (left and right) is pictured outside her home for the first time since GBBO's move to Channel 4 was announced

But a source for Love Productions added that if they don't, 'we have great creative minds and will come up with something else'.

Although the presenters and experts are contracted to Love Productions, the three-year contract secured by Channel 4 only includes the rights to the show and not to the presenters themselves.

Analysts have questioned why Channel 4 had paid £75million without locking in the four stars, and described the exchange as nothing more than the 'sale of a tent'.

But a Channel 4 source said the broadcaster had gone into discussions with Love Productions with their 'eyes fully open' and were prepared for the presenters to opt out.

The stars' contracts with the production company - rather than the BBC - also means they would be free to move to Channel 4 if they wished.

Since the news was announced on Monday, critics have questioned why the BBC did not offer more to keep what is the ultimate jewel in their crown and attracts more than 10m viewers per week.

The relationship between the BBC and Great British Bake Off broke down when the producers sued the Corporation for copying the show's format with two new programmes, it has been claimed. The show's creators form Love Productions, Richard McKerrow and Anna Beattie (circled) are pictured with Sue Pekins, Mary Berry and Mel Giedroyc at the Baftas

But sources have claimed that the relationship between the BBC and the Great British Bake Off started to break down years ago, before negotiations over the show's contract began.

In 2014, Love Productions allegedly sued the Corporation for copying the show's format with two new programmes.

According to reports, Love Productions accused Hair - an in-house BBC3 production which tried to find the country's best hairdresser - of having a 'staggeringly similar' format to GBBO.

The company - founded by Richard McKerrow and Anna Beattie - employed Jonathan Coad, a TV copyright specialist at law firm Lewis Silkin, to sue the BBC after the show was released in 2014.

The company behind GBBO allegedly launched legal action against the BBC when it accused the Corporation of 'ripping off' the cooking show (pictured) to create two separate series

According to Business Insider, the matter was resolved out of court when the BBC paid Love Productions an undisclosed financial settlement.

But a year later, Love and BBC are said to have become embroiled in a similar wrangle, this time regarding The Big Painting Challenge, a show presented by Richard Bacon and Una Stubbs.

According to the Telegraph, the BBC hired an official mediation service to try to settle the claim, with executives insisting that GBBO was itself based on a similar format to the Corporation's own MasterChef.

Although it was eventually resolved, the secret row apparently led to a 'catastrophic breakdown' in relationship ahead of the GBBO negotiations.

According to reports, Love Productions accused Hair (pictured) - an in-house BBC3 production which tried to find the country's best hairdresser - of having a 'staggeringly similar' format to GBBO

The company then employed Jonathan Coad, a TV copyright specialist at law firm Lewis Silkin, to sue the BBC over the show (pictured)

It is understood that Channel 4 - for whom the founders of Love Productions both previously worked - waded in with a £75million deal once talks between the BBC and the production company broke down.

The BBC and Love Productions declined to comment, but a BBC source said it was 'nonsense' to say that a deal couldn't be done.

'We made a very strong offer, everyone understands why the production company made the choice they made,' they told MailOnline.

The discussions over the continuation of GBBO are said to have taken place for a year, with an eleventh hour meeting taking place on Monday.

It emerged yesterday that the BBC were £10million short of keeping the Great British Bake Off on its screens after producers refused to accept offers below £25m.

The Corporation offered Love Productions around £15m per year - double the current contract - in a bid to retain the much-loved programme.

A year later, Love Productions made the same allegations, regarding The Big Painting Challenge, a show presented by Richard Bacon and Una Stubbs (pictured)

But the company apparently demanded £25m, a deal which the BBC said was a 'considerable distance' from what they could offer.

The BBC issued a thinly-veiled attack on the producers, saying resources were 'not infinite' and the money could not be met.

But Love Productions insisted the move had 'never been about who might write the biggest cheque'.

Insiders said the company even rejected an offer from another, unnamed broadcaster - believed to be ITV.

Paul Hollywood (pictured), 50, and Mary Berry, 81, have so far remained tight-lipped about their future on the show following its move to Channel 4

The BBC issued a thinly-veiled attack on the producers, saying resources were 'not infinite' and the money could not be met

Creators were also said concerned about the future of the GBBO with the BBC, including the constraints on commercial opportunities.

Last year, viewers complained about the prominence give to Smeg fridges in the show, which had been given to Love by the manufacturers in exchange for publicity.

Richard McKerrow - one of the two creators behind the show - said they had found the 'perfect new home for Bake Off'.

'It's a public service, free-to-air broadcaster for whom Love Productions have produced high quality and highly successful programmes for more than a decade, he said.

'It's tremendously exciting to have found a broadcaster who we know will protect and nurture The Great British Bake Off for many years to come.'

Channel 4 – which is a publicly-owned and commercially-funded broadcaster – has gone from recording losses of £29million in 2012 and £15million in 2013, to declaring a surplus of £26million for the last year.

Given its not-for-profit status, any surplus is reinvested in making content, and the broadcaster now has more than £200million in reserves.