http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3832859/We-need-demonstrations-outside-Putin-s-embassy-help-stop-war-Syria-Boris-Johnson-tells-MPs-warns-imposing-no-fly-zone-mean-shooting-RUSSIAN-planes.html
120
12
Jeremy Corbyn is facing demands to disown his 'disgraceful' top aide after he sparked fury by comparing British bombing of ISIS to Russian atrocities in Syria.

Spokesman Seumas Milne complained that the focus on horrors in Aleppo was 'diverting attention' from the consequences of Western military action.

He also suggested people should be protesting outside the US embassy in London rather than Moscow's embassy.

Jeremy Corbyn's spokesman complained that the focus on horrors in Aleppo was 'diverting attention' from the consequences of Western military action

The controversial comments came at a briefing after PMQs in the Commons today

The extraordinary outburst came after Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson condemned war crimes linked to Vladimir Putin's forces and urged protests against Russian involvement in Syria's civil war.

It was quickly condemned by Labour moderates, who branded Mr Milne a 'Putin apologist' and a 'disgrace'.

Former frontbencher John Woodcock said: 'By any reasonable measure this is just not true.

'This absurdity seems like a deliberate provocation, unworthy of our leader and our party.'

Residents of rebel-held Aleppo hunt for survivors yesterday. The city has been under intense bombardment by Bashar Assad's Russian-backed forces

A child waits for treatment at a makeshift hospital after an airstrike on a residential neighbourhood yesterday

The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights says Wednesday that Tuesday's bombings killed 25, while others put the death toll at 41

Brendan Cox, widower of Labour MP Jo Cox, who campaigned for an end to the bloodshed in Syria, said: 'This isn't just wrong, it's absolutely disgraceful.'

Milne's comments come as bombs continue to fall on Aleppo, where up to 41 people including five children were killed yesterday.

Rescue workers continued to search for survivors and bodies under a collapsed building in the al-Fardous neighborhood, after pulling at least one boy alive from under the rubble late on Tuesday night.

Seumas Milne is Jeremy Corbyn's closest aide and spokesman

The bombardment has continued today, prompting Pope Francis to call for an 'immediate ceasefire'.

Former shadow defence minister Kevan Jones described Milne's comments as 'completely outrageous'.

He told MailOnline: 'To compare the rule based intervention by the UK in Syria against Russian bombing, including the use of bunker busting bombs to target innocent civilians.

'Jeremy Corbyn should completely distance himself from this. It will further alienate decent, ordinary people who are put off voting Labour by someone who is clearly an apologist for Putin and his regime.'

Liberal Democrat MP Tom Brake demanded Mr Corbyn confirm whether he agreed with the remarks.

'It is ludicrous for Labour to suggest it sides with Putin over Obama,' he said.

'To only ever point the finger at the West is puerile politics not serious international diplomacy.

'Jeremy Corbyn must clarify immediately if this is his party's official position.'

A young Syrian boy was rescued from the rubble by a member of the White Helmets following heavy air strikes the rebel-held Fardous neighbourhood yesterday

An injured Syrian boy cries as bombs continue to fall in the city of Aleppo

An baby gets treatment at a field hospital following an airstrike on a residential area in the Bustan Al-Qasr neighborhood of Aleppo yesterday

At a briefing for journalists this afternoon, Mr Milne was asked whether there was a moral equivalence between US-led action and Russian action in Syria.

'The focus on Russian atrocities or Syrian army atrocities, which is absolutely correct, sometimes diverts attention from other atrocities that are taking place,' he said.

'Independent assessments are that there have been very large scale civilian casualties as a result of US-led coalition bombing.

'There are several cases of large numbers of civilian deaths in single attacks and there hasn't been so much attention on those atrocities.

A wounded boy in hospital following the air strikes. Up to 41 people, including five children, were killed in Aleppo yesterday

A Syrian man carries a wounded baby in his arms at a field hospital in the war-ravaged city

Syrians inspect the damage following a Russian airstrike on the opposition-controlled Bustan al-Qasr neighborhood of Aleppo

Aleppo is being reduced to rubble under bombardment by Syrian and Russian air forces with the damage, pictured last week, clear from the air

'Both the US and British authorities have been reluctant to accept any independent assessment of those.'

Asked if the UK was as culpable as Russia, Mr Milne said: 'We are not in the business of allocating blame on the whole thing. Russia's intervention in the civil war has been opposed by Jeremy from the start and the intervention of foreign powers in the conflict has no doubt escalated and fuelled it throughout.'

Pressed on whether that meant people should protest outside the US embassy instead of Russia's, the spokesman replied: 'People are free to protest outside the intervening powers' embassies and there are a number of them – not just the United States and Russia, but multiple foreign interventions.'

The Stop the War coalition, which is closely linked to Mr Corbyn, has blasted Mr Johnson for 'trivialising' the debate over the brutal war in Syria by demanding protests outside the Russian embassy in London - insisting a protest would whip up 'jingoism'.

Former frontbencher John Woodcock, top, and Jo Cox's widower Brendan both condemned the comments on Twitter

Russian diplomats have hit out at Mr Johnson over his remarks in yesterday's debate, claiming on social media they were 'ashamed' for him.

Ex-MI6 chief Sir John Sawers was also critical of Mr Johnson, warning protests outside the Russian embassy in London could provoke retaliatory action outside the British embassy in Moscow.

Mr Johnson used his Commons debut as Foreign Secretary to ramp up political pressure on Russia, warning Moscow it risked becoming a 'pariah' state over its aerial bombardment of rebels opposed to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.

He opened the door to discussion on a no-fly zone in Syria despite warning of the risk of direct conflict between British and Russian aircraft.

The Commons debate saw MPs compare the brutal bombing of Aleppo with Guernica, Nazi bombing of Spain during the civil war in the country in 1937.

Boris Johnson, pictured at the Commons despatch box today, wants demonstrations to take place outside Russia's embassy over Moscow's involvement in the Syrian conflict

Mr Johnson used his speech to open discussion on a no-fly zone over Syria but warned those who back it must confront the dangers of having British and Russian aircraft facing each other

MPs wrestled with what Britain should now do about the war, which has raged for more than five years. The Commons voted against a military action after Assad used chemical weapons in 2013, halting an international plan for humanitarian intervention.

Stop the War vice chairman Chris Nineham said the organisation would not stage any demonstrations at the Russian embassy.

'The reason for that is our focus is on what our Government is doing,' he told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme.

Mr Johnson gave MPs a cautious response as he faced demands for a no-fly zone over Aleppo yesterday

'There's a very good reason for this, because we can make a difference to what Britain does, we can make a difference to what our allies do to a certain extent and we have done.

'But, if we have a protest outside the Russian embassy it wouldn't make a blind bit of difference as to what (President Vladimir) Putin does because we are in Britain and were are in the West.

'And, not only that - a protest outside the Russian embassy would actually contribute to increasing the hysteria and the jingoism that is being whipped up at the moment against Russia.'

He added: 'What we are saying is there is a hysteria which is being organised by politicians and the media against Russia to see Russia as the only problem in Syria.'

Mr Nineham said the Foreign Secretary's calls for demonstrations were 'characteristically trivialising'.

After Mr Johnson's speech, Maria Zakharova, a Russian foreign ministry spokeswoman, posted on Facebook: 'It appears that Boris Johnson has moved from words to actions and has used the weapon with which he threatened Russia — shame. We certainly are ashamed for him.'

In a series of Twitter posts, the embassy's account said Mr Johnson's demand for protests was 'unusual' and accused the Foreign Secretary of failing to produce any evidence of alleged Russian atrocities.

In a further message to the Ministry of Defence: 'What have you achieved so far? Russia's record on Syria is thousands of freed villages, thousands of tons of humanitarian aid. What's Britain's?'

Mr Johnson's claims were dismissed tonight by the official Twitter account of Russia's London embassy - insisting it was a 'very unusual call' from the Foreign Secretary

The embassy claimed Britain had produced no evidence of atrocities committed by Russian aircraft in Syria

Sir John, who ran MI6 until November 2014, told the BBC: 'I think we all have to be a little bit careful and mindful of the security of our embassy in Moscow when we think about calling for demonstrations here in London.

'Yes there is a value in demonstrating clearly through governments and popularly the opposition to some of the tactics being used in Aleppo but I don't think it's actually going to change the course of events.'

He warned the West's failure to intervene in Syria in 2013, when the Assad regime used chemical weapons, had been proven by events to be a mistake.

Sir John said: 'We vacated the theatre and the Russians have moved in.'

He added: 'Yes it certainly was a mistake I mean chemical weapons were being used against the people, civilians, in Damascus by their own regime.

Russian President Vladimir Putin, pictured with Turkish President Recep Erodgan in Istanbul this week, has been condemned by MPs from across parties

'We have upheld the taboo against use of chemical weapons and we failed to uphold it on this occasion.'

In his speech, Mr Johnson told the Commons: 'It is the UK week after week that is taking the lead together with our allies in America and in France, all the like-minded nations, in highlighting what is happening in Syria to a world where, I'm afraid, the wells of outrage are growing exhausted.'

He added: 'There is no commensurate horror, it seems to me, amongst some of those anti-war protest groups.

'I'd certainly like to see demonstrations outside the Russian embassy. Where is the Stop The War Coalition at the moment? Where are they?'

The war in Syria has escalated since efforts to reach a ceasefire collapsed in September.

Syria and its ally Russia subsequently launched their biggest offensive on the city of Aleppo's rebel-held sectors.

The air strikes have drawn widespread condemnation, including calls from France and the United States for an investigation into war crimes they say have been committed by Syrian and Russian forces.

A Syria Civil Defence volunteer was pictured carrying an injured man away from a bombing in the besieged city last week

A wounded girl is carried from the rubble of buildings following a barrel bomb attack on the Bab al-Nairab neighbourhood of the northern Syrian city of Aleppo

The Commons debate on the war in Syria heard comparisons between the Russian bombing in Aleppo to the devastating Nazi bombing of Guernica in Spain in 1936, pictured