http://www.news.com.au/national/northern-territory/supporter-of-northern-territorys-worst-mass-murderer-douglas-crabbe-threatens-to-run-critic-over-with-truck/news-story/ed70e768bda165afe2ae5b5599bf8d73
124
12
CRAIG DUNLOP NT News

AN advocate for the release of mass murderer Douglas ­Crabbe has traded ugly insults with a critic, at one stage saying: “My big rig will f*ckin kill ya”.

Crabbe, now 69, is serving life in jail on five counts of murder after he drove his Mack truck into the Inland Hotel at Yulara in August 1983. Then 36, he had been refused service at the bar after picking a fight with the bartender.

After slamming into the pub, Crabbe “smiled down at one of his victims, stepped over some bodies and ran,” court records show.

Family and friends of Crabbe have repeatedly called for him to be granted parole from prison in Western Australia, where he was transferred in 2005, while some survivors of the mass killing saying Crabbe should never be released.

In a heated online conversation, one critic, Serina Thompson, said his family and friends were “scum (for) supporting a mass murdering psychopath”.

During a lengthy exchange of insults, one of Crabbe’s supporters, Caris Mason, appeared to threaten Ms Thompson.

“Sticks and stones may break my bones but my big rig will f*ckin kill ya,” Ms Mason said. “Don’t get hit by a truck now will ya.”

RELATED: MASS MURDERER DOUGLAS CRABBE UP FOR PAROLE

RELATED: SON OF MASS MURDERER LASHES OUT AT SURVIVOR

Ms Thompson called Ms Mason a “fat slapper” and an “ugly trollop”, among various other insults.

A second supporter of ­Crabbe’s told Ms Thompson to stop her “twatwaffle”.

Ms Mason argued Crabbe should be set free because the killing was a “mistake”.

“Mistakes happen,” she said. “People die because of other people (it) happens everywhere every day and this man has done his time.”

She said Crabbe had done “a lot more time then (sic) ­actual murders do”.

Ms Mason, from Perth, described Ms Thompson as “road kill” and, after posting a photo of a truck driving along a highway in the middle of the night told Ms Thompson she would “see you soon”.

When contacted by the NT News, Ms Mason said her comments were a “figure of speech”.

The Western Australia Prisoners Review Board has ­repeatedly recommended Crabbe for parole, but Western Australia Attorney-General Michael Mischin said last month he was still mulling over his decision.

In letters to family from prison, Crabbe seems to strike a more measured tone in his middle age than some of his supporters.

“Another year has passed in much the same way as previous years, health remains ­really good, getting plenty of exercise and good food, managing some work time and study,” he said.



Ms Thompson did not respond to the NT News’ request for comment yesterday.