http://www.news.com.au/technology/home-entertainment/tv/australians-now-getting-hooked-on-netflix-at-the-same-rate/news-story/b52a9974977ce645aab4aeb896c85487
20
2
EIGHTEEN months after Netflix officially launched down under, Australian viewers have caught up to the rest of the world’s bingeing pace.

Last year, when Netflix released its “Hooked” research, which looks at the episode when viewers become addicted to a series, it found Aussies typically attached themselves to a particular series an episode or two later than our global counterparts.

This year’s research has found that we’re now just like everyone else. For the most part.

For shows such as Making a Murderer (episode four), Jessica Jones (episode four), The Fall (episode two), Master of None (episode four), Marseille (episode three) and The Last Kingdom (episode two), we became hooked at the same time as the global average.

We were still an episode behind on series including Love, Stranger Things, The Get Down and Orphan Black. But it’s a better showing than last year when we were embarrassingly lagging on just about everything. Or maybe we’re more discerning viewers? Nah, that can’t be it.

Netflix’s vice president of original content, Cindy Holland, puts our behaviour change to being more comfortable with the bingeing model.

She said: “Netflix was pretty new in Australia when we launched the Hooked campaign last year — just shy of six months post-launch. As members down under are getting better acquainted with the service and the freedom of on-demand viewing, we’re seeing their viewing habits becoming faster and more similar to those of mature markets.

“It remains to be seen whether there is a natural saturation point when a habit is formed, or if it continues to accelerate over time and across geographies.”

The other big takeaway from this year’s research is viewers tend to get hooked on light-hearted comedies and dramedies at a much slower rate than tense dramas or genre shows.

The likes of Jane The Virgin, Gilmore Girls and Fuller House found their dedicated fans around the seventh or eighth episode mark, compared to crime dramas such as Narcos (episode four in Australia) or sci-fi series The 100 (episode two).

Ms Holland speculated that darker shows tend to be more visceral with their storytelling, inspiring a more emotion-fuelled response, while more light-hearted shows are built around characters and that it may take viewers longer to decide whether to “befriend these characters”.

But another theory is that it tends to fall along the lines of hour-long dramas having a more sustained narrative arc over a season, inviting you to come back week after week to find out what happens next, while comedies are often more episodic in nature, sometimes lacking that extra inducement to invest.

What does it take to hook you onto a TV series? Let us know below in the comments or on Twitter at @wenleima.