http://www.news.com.au/national/queensland/mayor-apologises-for-front-page-depicting-the-prime-minister-as-a-clown/news-story/1a3dda9be6ff8ced4d9d28e4c0d72a0d
120
12
Charis Chang and AAP news.com.au

THE Rockhampton mayor has personally apologised to Malcolm Turnbull after the local paper depicted the Prime Minister as a clown ahead of his visit to the region.

The Morning Bulletin on Thursday carried the headline “Stop Clowning Around Malcolm” and said it was time the prime minister got serious about giving Central Queensland a fair go.

“The thing that says we need help is real, but that image was inexcusable. So please accept our apology,” mayor Margaret Strelow told local radio 4RO.

The Prime Minister reportedly thanked the mayor for her “very gracious” apology but said it was “not needed”.

In its editorial, The Morning Bulletin said it did not think Mr Turnbull was a clown but hoped the gimmick would draw attention to the plight of regional Australia, “particularly those communities smashed by the mining downturn in Central Queensland”.

“The big question is: Are you going to do anything about it?” the editorial asked.

It said residents of regional Australia die earlier than those in Mr Turnbull’s electorate of Wentworth in Sydney, were poorer, had worse health outcomes and less employment opportunities.

“There are any number of reasons Pauline Hanson’s One Nation party is surging in the polls in this area,” it said.

“A lack of faith our people have that the two main parties will make a difference is a key one of those.

“Regional Australians are desperate to find someone to give them a Fair Go. Are you the man for the job?”

In an interview yesterday Deputy Prime Minister Barnaby Joyce denied the PM’s Queensland visit was about countering the rise of the One Nation vote.

A recent Newspoll showed the primary vote for Pauline Hanson’s party had jumped to 10 per cent in Queensland, up from 5.5 per cent at the election.

Mr Joyce said it was important and “healthy” for MPs to get out to regional areas.

“The prime minister will go very well ... talk to some of the cattle producers, talk to people in little regional towns,” he told reporters in Canberra.

Today Mr Turnbull announced a multi-million dollar fund for new dams and water projects across the country in Rockhampton.

The fund is designed to break ground on water infrastructure such as dams, water treatment, and managed aquifer recharge projects.

The government has already given in-principle backing to five water projects including the Rookwood Weir in Queensland, Dungowan Dam in NSW, the Macalister Irrigation District in Victoria, among others.

The Morning Bulletin is owned by Australian Regional Media. News Corp Australia, which publishes The Australian, has proposed to purchase ARM.