https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/asia_pacific/ethnic-clash-in-kabul-over-long-dead-king/2016/09/01/b6d4464a-704a-11e6-993f-73c693a89820_story.html
125
12
Afghan supporters ride in a convoy carrying the coffin containing the remains of former Afghan king Habibullah Kalakani during a funeral ceremony Thursday in Kabul. (Wakil Kohsar/AFP/Getty Images)

A procession of several thousand marchers attempting to rebury the remains of a controversial Afghan king here Thursday came under attack from gunmen loyal to Vice President Abdurrashid Dostum, an ethnic Uzbek militia leader. Two marchers were wounded before police and other officials intervened, Afghan news outlets reported.

The clash, which erupted around a hilly graveyard in a residential area of the capital, underscored the seething ethnic tensions that continue to roil the country after 15 years of democratic rule, and the potential for violence that can involve rogue officials of a weak civilian government that is already battling a persistent Taliban insurgency.

On one side of the confrontation were ethnic Tajik supporters of King Habibullah Kalakani, a former bandit, conservative Muslim and shrewd populist leader who overthrew a moderate Afghan monarch in 1929 and crushed many of his reforms before being captured and hanged after nine months on the throne.

Kalakani has lain in an unmarked grave in Kabul for 87 years, but after it was identified several years ago his supporters began to demand that the government allow his remains to be unearthed and transferred to a more honorable setting. When President Ashraf Ghani’s office failed to respond last month, they vowed to move the body without permission.

But other Afghan ethnic groups, who view Kalakani as a thief and a despot, opposed honoring him. Dostum, who often behaves more like an Uzbek militia leader than a national vice president and has led his private army in fighting against the Taliban in northern Afghanistan, reportedly said he would not allow the Tajiks to build a tomb for Kalakani at the cemetery because it was the burial site of a historic Uzbek leader.

[The fight over a shrine for a tyrannical Afghan king ]

The marchers, many from the Shomali Plain north of Kabul that was Kalakani’s home, moved all morning toward Shah Rara hill, accompanied by a bulldozer to prepare the gravesite. But when they arrived, the procession was blocked by gunmen in the pay of Dostum, some of whom had taken up positions around an old fort above. Shots were fired, wounding two of the marchers, in a scene shown live on TV.

Security officials had anticipated that the event might spark violence, because of the extreme ethnic sensitivities involved and the participation of former Tajik militia leaders in the reburial movement. Police and army troops moved in quickly to defuse the situation and negotiate, Afghan news outlets reported, and no further violence was reported. By late evening, officials said Dostum’s men had withdrawn and the marchers were starting to prepare the gravesite.

But the incident was sure to be seen as an embarrassment to Ghani on several fronts; first for failing to seek a solution to the mounting contretemps over Kalakani’s legacy, even though his chief executive, Abdullah Abdullah, had expressed support for the reburial; and second for being unable to prevent the spectacle of Dostum, a former rival Ghani asked to join his administration, sending armed men into the streets of Kabul.

“The president knew about this, and he could have made a decision about it,” Noor Agha Sharifi, a member of the Tajik-led Jamiat-i-Islami party, told Tolo TV news Thursday afternoon. “If he didn’t know, he does now, and he should fix it.”

The incident was the second case of a violent attack on peaceful ethnic protesters in Kabul in recent weeks. On July 23, suicide bombers attacked a rally by minority ethnic Hazaras who were demanding access to electricity in their provincial homelands. The attack, claimed by Afghan affiliates of the Islamic State, killed 80 people.

Read more:

U.S., European military advisers work to boost lagging Afghan combat readiness

11 killed, 30 injured as gunmen target American University in Afghanistan

Afghan ID cards were meant to stop voter fraud but instead stoked ethnic division

Today’s coverage from Post correspondents around the world