http://www.dawn.com/news/1289434
141
14
SWABI: Police found the bodies of two unidentified Afghans at a desert in Shahmansoor area here on Monday.

DPO Javed Iqbal told journalists that the bodies were shifted to Bacha Medical Complex Shahmansoor for postmortem.

He said that police were informed by local people about the presence of bodies at Gaju Khan desert.

The DPO said that he was contacted by an unidentified Afghan, who told him that the deceased reached Peshawar from Afghanistan on Sunday but he was not clear as to how they reached Swabi and how they were killed.

Another police official told this correspondent that both the Afghans were brutally killed and one of them was slaughtered after spraying them with bullets from a close range.

He said that one of the deceased was in his early twenties and the other seemed above 34 years. Police did not get anything from their clothes which could ascertain their identity.

An FIR was registered against unidentified person in Zaida police station and police started investigations.

Meanwhile, police arrested a resident of Swat for his alleged involvement in robberies and motorcycle snatching cases in Tordher and Jehangira areas.

The arrested person was identified as Nisar Khan. He belongs to Swat but presently lives in Jehangira.

Police said that the arrested snatched Rs1 million from a trader in Tordher at gunpoint.

PROTEST: The students of polytechnic college in Panjpir staged a demonstration to demand repair of road, leading to their college.

The protesting students marched to Swabi-Jehangira Road and blocked the road to all kinds of traffic.

They chanted slogans against the government and said that they would not end the blockade till accepting of their demand.

The commuters, especially women and children, faced great hardships owing to blockade of the road.

Later officials of the district government assured the protesters that the road would be constructed very soon by the district government.

After the assurance of the officials, the students ended their protest and dispersed peacefully.

Published in Dawn, October 11th, 2016