http://www.themalaymailonline.com/malaysia/article/ismail-sabri-umno-youths-duty-to-defend-malay-dignity
141
14
Ismail Sabri: Umno Youth’s duty to defend Malay dignity (VIDEO)

Ismail Sabri said the protesters, who clashed with police during yesterday's rally in the city, were merely reacting to DAP lawmaker Nga Kor Ming’s Hari Raya greetings on Facebook that he termed as insulting. — Picture by Yusof Mat IsaKUALA LUMPUR, July 13 ― Umno Youth cannot be faulted for protesting at the DAP headquarters yesterday as they were merely defending the Malays and Islam, a Cabinet minister said today.

Rural and Regional Development Minister Datuk Seri Ismail Sabri Yaakob said the protesters, who clashed with police during yesterday's rally in the city, were merely reacting to DAP lawmaker Nga Kor Ming’s Hari Raya greetings on Facebook that he termed as insulting.

"And the Umno Youth members were merely carrying out their responsibility to defend the pride of the Malays and of Islam that were insulted by Nga Kor Ming.

"Yesterday was an example of their reacting to his statement. It is their duty to defend the integrity and the dignity of the Malays who were insulted," he said during a press conference at the ministry headquarters today.

He also cautioned other politicians against making such controversial statements, even in jest, as it could affect the sensitivities of Malaysians.

“I hope after this there will be no more incidents like this. All leaders, opposition politicians and such have to be careful when issuing statements.

“Don’t suddenly say it’s just a joke. That’s not the way. When you say something, especially a leader like him, he must understand the repercussions of his words. If chaos results from it, it’s better for you to have not said it at all because people will react to what you’ve said,” he said.

Nga, however, has denied uploading on his Facebook account a caricature on the Muslim practice of giving out cash during the Hari Raya celebration in the form of “duit raya” and “dedak”, a euphemism for chicken feed which is used derogatorily to describe corrupt cash handouts.

Ismail Sabri, who is an Umno supreme council member, said even he was insulted by the Facebook posts as the practice of giving out “duit raya” was an age old tradition.

“Even I was insulted if he’s trying to say that the children ‘makan dedak.’ ‘Dedak’ is actually the feed for chickens and ducks so equating children’s receiving duit raya to chickens and ducks, of course lah we get angry.

“When in fact, this is something practiced by everyone. It’s the same with the Chinese, the Malays and the Indians ― they all give cash to the children during the festive season. It’s become a Malaysian tradition,” he said.

In February 2015, Ismail Sabri sparked a firestorm of protest over his Facebook post urging Malay consumers to boycott allegedly profiteering Chinese businesses. He later spearheaded the creation of the MARA Digital Mall, specifically for Malay tech vendors.

Yesterday, some 150 Umno members and supporters held an unruly rally at the DAP’s national headquarters to protest against Nga and the opposition party, with riot police having to hold back the demonstrators.

Protesters from the Malay ruling party threw “hell notes” — used traditionally at Chinese funerals — at the DAP representative who accepted their memorandum and said they wanted the opposition party “to die”.