http://standardmedia.co.ke/article/2000207543/parents-want-interdicted-principal-reinstated
141
14


Updated Tue, July 5th 2016 at 00:00 GMT +3

A police officer at a fire lit by protesting parents who are demanding that Itierio High School principal Andrew Otara be reinstated. Otara has been interdicted after seven dormitories at the school were razed early last week. (PHOTO: ERIC AGUGA/ STANDARD)

Parents have vowed not to allow Itierio High School to resume its operations until its principal is reinstated.

Yesterday, the parents barricaded Kisii-Migori road as they protested a move by the Teachers Service Commission (TSC) to interdict Andrew Otara over burning of dormitories.

They said Otara is not to blame for destruction of the seven dormitories as he was away attending a conference in Mombasa when the incident happened early last week.

"TSC is interdicting the principal even when Education CS and commission's chief executive officer can testify they were attending the Kenya Secondary School Heads Association conference with him in Mombasa when it all happened. This is unacceptable," said one of the parents.

They said Otara, who has been interdicted alongside three teachers, only arrived back to find the dormitories had been burnt down and should not be blamed.

The parents who were joined by a section of the local community in the protests said TSC did not follow due process while vetoing Otara and wants the commission to rescind its decision immediately.

"He was interdicted even before his teachers briefed him about what happened. He should also have been allowed to carry out investigations before any decision is reached. This is a clear case of harassment and malice," said another parent.

The Evangelist Lutheran Church of Kenya, which sponsors the school, has warned it will convert it into a hotel or hospital if Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i will insist interdicting the principal.

The church is angered that the ministry and TSC have already posted a new principal to the school even without consulting them.

"The school was build by the church which is also its sponsor. It has also been build land belonging to the church. The board of the church should be involved in any decision that affect the school. The move replace the principal without our input is disrespectful," said Bishop Thomas Asiago of South Nyanza Diocese.

The church also accused a section of officials from Education ministry of doctoring the initial report on the possible cause of the attack.