https://www.washingtonpost.com/business/economy/midwest-flooding-disrupts-oil-agriculture-kills-thousands-of-pigs/2015/12/31/4fb711be-afe7-11e5-b711-1998289ffcea_story.html
36
3
shutdowns

Midwest flooding disrupts industries

The worst flooding across the Midwest in four years is disrupting everything from oil to agriculture, forcing pipelines, terminals and grain elevators to close and killing off thousands of pigs.

Fifty miles of the Illinois River have been closed, according to the Coast Guard, as well as 81 miles of the Mississippi River in two segments. The flooding is the worst since May 2011.

Hog producers in southern Illinois are calling other farmers, hoping to find extra barn space to relocate their pigs, said Jennifer Tirey, executive director of the Illinois Pork Producers Association. Processors are sending additional trucks out to retrieve market-ready pigs, she said. In one case, an overflowing creek knocked out electricity and made roads impassable, causing 2,000 pigs to drown.

So far, the biggest oil shutdown involves Enbridge’s Ozark pipeline, which was booked to carry about 200,000 barrels a day this month to Wood River, Ill., from Cushing, Okla.

Kinder Morgan shut its Cahokia terminal in Sauget, Ill., and its Cora terminal in Rockwood, Ill., company spokesman Richard Wheatley said by email. Cahokia handles chemicals, coal, cement and metals, while Cora handles coal and petroleum coke, according to the company.

Exxon Mobil is shutting a fuel terminal on the Mississippi River at Memphis “in anticipation of severe weather,” spokesman Todd Spitler said by email Wednesday.

Barge operators shipping grain took advantage of early forecasts for the heavy rain and flooding to transport loads before Christmas to ports in New Orleans, where there’s “adequate inventory,” said Wes Traina, logistics manager for Zen-Noh Grain in Convent, La. Still, high water may continue to slow shipping and loading throughout January, he added.

The southern Illinois co-op Gateway FS has closed three of its grain elevators, general manager Carl Tebbe said.

— Bloomberg News

MEDIA

Nexstar close to deal for Media General

Nexstar Broadcasting Group will finalize the details of a proposal to acquire Media General, people with knowledge of the matter said, triggering a window for rival Meredith to say it intends to make a counteroffer.

Nexstar has tapped Bank of America, Deutsche Bank and Credit Suisse Group to finance the deal, said the people, who asked not to be identified because the information is private. Nexstar plans to raise about $4.5 billion to acquire Media General and refinance existing debt, the people said.

The two companies are close to reaching an agreement in which Nexstar would pay about $2.2 billion, or about $17.50 a share, for Media General, people familiar with the matter told Bloomberg last week. Once Nexstar and Media General come to an agreement, Meredith will have at least four business days to say it plans to match that offer or make an increased bid. The talks may still fall apart or take more time, the people said.

The Nexstar-Media General transaction would be about 60 percent cash and 40 percent stock, the people said. Media General, based in Richmond, has about $2.3 billion in total debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.

Representatives for Media General, Nexstar and Meredith declined to comment, as did spokesmen for Deutsche Bank, Credit Suisse and Bank of America.

Media General rejected an initial offer from Nexstar this month of $16.31 a share. Media General agreed to acquire Meredith for $2.4 billion in September.

— Bloomberg News

Also in Business

— From news services

Coming Today