http://en.farsnews.com/newstext.aspx?nn=13950713001337
141
14
World

Kirkuk Province: ISIL Spy Gunned Down by Unknown Gunmen in Hawija

TEHRAN (FNA)- Local sources in Kirkuk province disclosed that one of the most notorious ISIL agents, Abu Azoleh, was shot dead by unknown assailants in the Southwestern part of Kirkuk province.

The unidentified assailants shot dead Abu Azoleh as he was riding a motorcycle in the Suburban area of the city of Hawija.

The ISIL used Abu Azoleh to find out the whereabouts of its dissidents and chase them.

People in the region came to find out about Azoleh's spionage activities after they found the archives of ISIL members' background and identity checks in a raid on the terrorist group's base in the region several weeks ago.

On Sunday, one of the most brutal executioners of the ISIL terrorist group was killed in an airstrike in Kirkuk province.

The ISIL hangman, nom de guerre Black Pig, was killed when the terrorist group's military positions came under airstrike in the city of Hawija in Kirkuk province.

Hundreds of Iraqi families whose relatives had been beheaded by Black Pig were no shy of displaying their joy and happiness over the death of the ISIL executioner.

In late September, the Iraqi Air Force carried out a powerful airstrike over the strategic town of Hawija, killing the ISIL-appointed governor and 13 of his aides in the Northern city.

A source in the district of Hawija reported that a tunnel dug by the ISIL had collapsed during the airstrike, killing the ISIL-appointed governor of Hawija, Abu Nasser Al-Zubai, and 13 of his aides," Iraq's Popular Mobilization Units, locally known as Hashd al-Sha'abi, said in a statement.

The latest airstrike by the Iraqi Air Force came just days ahead of the upcoming Hawija offensive that was scheduled to start on short notice.

Iraq's military forces liberated the key town of Al-Shirqat, which is located just East of Hawija, very recently.

With the city liberated from ISIL control, Iraqi popular and security forces have started distributing humanitarian aid among displaced people who are gradually returning to Shirqat and Talul al-baj in Salahuddin province.

The liberation of Al-Shirqat was an important step towards clearing the final ISIL pockets in Salahuddin and Kirkuk provinces.

The Iraqi army and popular forces also completely liberated several villages around Shirqat and continued advance towards Al-Mashak South of the liberated city.

Liberation of Shirqat also caused rifts within ISIL ranks as reports informed that the terrorist group executed over half a dozen of its own militants for fleeing the war in the city of al-Shirqat during Iraqi Amy offensive.