http://en.farsnews.com/newstext.aspx?nn=13950713001239
141
14
Defense

Official: Iran to Confront Aggressors outside Borders

TEHRAN (FNA)- A senior Islamic Revolution Guards Corps (IRGC) official warned enemies that Iran's defensive measures against any aggression will not be confined to its borders.

"The regional and trans-regional enemies of Iran should know that the Islamic Republic would not restrict defense to the homeland; increased offensive power doesn’t mean a change in our defensive military doctrine, but out goal is to make the enemy understand that the Islamic Republic of Iran will give a powerful response to aggressors from even outside its borders," Advisor to the Supreme Leader's Representative at the IRGC Yadollah Javani said on Tuesday.

Noting that Iran is increasing both its offensive and defensive power to enhance the level of its deterrence power, he said that building state-of-the-art missiles and other military equipment and weapons is in line with the same policy.

Javani stressed that Iran has never during the nuclear talks with the world powers accepted any undertaking to restrict its military power.

In relevant remarks last month, IRGC Lieutenant Commander Brigadier General Hossein Salami stressed Iran's military capabilities, and said the country has grown so powerful that it can now target all enemies' vital interests from inside and outside its borders.

"We are so powerful that we can target all the vital interests of the enemies in the region from either inside or outside Iran with any desired intensity and power," Salami said in an interview with the state-run TV.

Noting that the enemies are merely aware of a part of Iran's military power, he said, "The hidden parts of our military power are always more than the overt parts of our power."

Salami also underlined that Iran's military and deterrence power forced the world powers to sit to the negotiations table with the country on the nuclear issue.

Also, in June, Deputy Chief of Staff of Armed Forces Brigadier General Massoud Jazzayeri said the US and its allies will be deeply surprised to see Iran's secret military achievements.

"The enemies of the Islamic Republic, headed by the Americans, the Zionists and the British, are (only) aware of a part of the Islamic Republic of Iran's power in different defensive and missile fields and fortunately, since we are self-reliant in this area, our enemies aren’t aware of certain parts and will not be aware any time soon unless something happens," Jazzayeri said.

"In such a case, we might need to display a part of our capabilities in the battlefield and I believe that if such a thing happens, they will be much surprised to suddenly see how much progress the Islamic Republic has made in defensive fields," he added.