http://en.farsnews.com/newstext.aspx?nn=13950713001105
141
14
Foreign Policy

FM: Iran Not to Tolerate US Non-Commitment to N. Deal

TEHRAN (FNA)- Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif underlined that his country will show proper reaction to the US violation of its undertakings under the last year nuclear deal with Tehran.

"We will resist against the US non-compliance and we don’t tolerate it and we will confront the Americans' violation of the nuclear deal," Zarif said on Tuesday.

His remarks came after German Vice-Chancellor and Federal Minister of Economic Affairs and Energy Sigmar Gabriel called on Washington to settle its internal problems and differences to fully implement the nuclear deal signed last year with Iran.

"The US should manage its affairs so that the results of the nuclear agreement would be materialized for Iran and its people," Gabriel said in a joint trade meeting with Iranian officials at Iran's Chamber of Commerce in Tehran on Monday.

He stressed the German companies' enthusiasm for developing their activities in Iran, and said, "Now, they consider Iran as their home."

Also, in July, Iranian Parliament Speaker Ali Larijani underlined that the US is trying to block foreign investment in Iran by making moves against the Islamic Republic.

"The US Congress has already proposed about 52 resolutions and motions, three of which have been approved; although the White House has stated that it would veto such sanctions, these measures by the US Congress and Senate exert a psychological pressure on other countries to block investment in Iran," Larijani said.

He reiterated that the US legislature’s approval of anti-Iran motions is against the spirit of the nuclear agreement struck between Iran and the Group 5+1 (the US, Russia, China, France, Britain and Germany) in July 2015.

The Iranian parliament speaker strongly criticized Western countries for their failure to uphold their commitments under the nuclear accord, known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), and said, "Iran has to respond in kind as those countries are stonewalling in the foreign investment process despite the fact they had pledged to create incentives for investment in Iran."

Also, in April, Supreme Leader of the Islamic Revolution Ayatollah Seyed Ali Khamenei lashed out at the US for its hypocrisy, saying Washington has taken up to ease banking sanctions against Iran under the nuclear deal, but at the same time intimidates the foreign banks to avoid business with the country.

"The reason for major international banks' refusal to cooperate with Iran is the Iranophobia that the Americans have been promoting," Ayatollah Khamenei said in Tehran at the time, addressing a large gathering of Iranian workers on the threshold of the international Labors Day.