https://www.newsday.co.zw/2016/05/27/mdc-t-rallies-bulawayo-anti-zanu-pf-demo/
141
14
THE Morgan Tsvangirai-led MDC-T yesterday rallied Zimbabweans to join its anti-Zanu PF government demonstration in Bulawayo tomorrow.

BY NQOBANI NDLOVU/KHANYILE MLOTSHWA

The demonstration comes two days after Zanu PF organised its “million-man march” in Harare, where President Robert Mugabe vowed he would not step down despite calls by the opposition for him to hand over power in the face of the worsening economic crisis in the country.

Tsvangirai led another MDC-T protest in Harare last month, where he announced similar marches would be organised countrywide to register people’s discontent against mass poverty and other ills facing Zimbabweans.

MDC-T organising secretary Abednico Bhebhe told journalists at a Press conference in Bulawayo yesterday that the main opposition party would not allow the continued abuse of citizens by the Zanu PF government.

He urged Zimbabweans to exercise their democratic right to demonstrate as enshrined in the Constitution.

“We are calling upon all Zimbabweans that are feeling the pinch of mismanagement and misgovernance and those that do believe there is still a chance to resurrect the country, which is in intensive care, to participate in the demonstration,” he said.

Bhebhe, who was accompanied by top party officials among them Bulawayo deputy mayor Gift Banda, said government could not be allowed to continue holding the country to ransom.

He said “people power should prevail as it is unstoppable”.

“You are going to be seeing the MDC-T leadership leading from the front on Saturday [tomorrow]. We will continue demanding that Mugabe goes to rest despite him saying he is not going anywhere, and we will continue criticising his failures and those of his government,” Bhebhe said.

“We face a tragedy as a country and we need to try and come together and realise that we are under siege as a country and tackle all the problems we face head-on. We believe in people power. We believe that no one can stop people power when the time has come to say enough is enough.”