http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ranchi/Axe-falls-on-Daudnagar-SHO/articleshow/53608945.cms
141
14
Aurangabad SP Babu Ram on Monday suspended Daudnagar SHO Pankaj Kumar for his failure to check clash between RJD supporters on Saturday. Police inspector Ravi Prakash Singh has taken over as the SHO of Daudnagar. Two groups of RJD supporters, one led by Obra MLA Birendra Kumar Sinha's son Kunal Kumar and the other by Prakash Chandra, state president of RJD's disaster management cell, terrorized the locals on Saturday by exchanging fire near Bhakahrua mor. The incident occurred right under the nose of police.Leopard dies: A female leopard, which fell into an iron trap laid by poachers in Madanpur forest range in West Champaran district, died on Monday. The forest officials tried hard for four hours to rescue the beast, but failed. Forest sources said the leopard was trapped around 5am on Monday, but forest range officer R K Sinha, trainee DFO Hemant Pathak and other forest officials reached the spot around 9am.Priest's body found: Body of one Balak Das, a priest of Khapratola under Gobardhana police station in West Champaran, was recovered from Harharpur forest on Sunday. Das had been missing since the last three days. Rajendar Sao, one of the relatives of the priest, lodged an FIR against unknown persons with the police after the recovery of the body. Gobardhana SHO Upendar Mahato said prima facie miscreants killed Das to grab his "muth" property.BSP protest: Aurangabad district unit of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) staged a daylong dharna in front of collectorate on Monday to protest lathicharge on Dalit students in Patna last week. BSP leaders chanted anti-government slogans and threatened to launch statewide stir if the government failed to take action against policemen involved in the lathicharge.DD documentary: Doordarshan will telecast a documentary on the living conditions of a few freedom fighters hailing from Tarapur in Munger district on the occasion of Kranti Diwas on August 9. Tarapur had produced a record number of freedom fighters. At least 50 freedom fighters from Tarapur had sacrificed their lives in indiscriminate firing by Britishers on February 15, 1932.PMC drive: Patna Municipal Corporation has decided to launch a drive against use of noisemaking old generator sets and polythene of less than 40 micron thickness to check pollution in the city. PMC commissioner Abhishek Singh said the drive would be carried in all the four circles from Tues day.Body found: Police on Monday recovered the body of a 28-year-old staff of Kendriya Vidyalaya, Danapur. The deceased, identified as Aarti, was found hanging from the ceiling fan in her quarter.