http://www.business-standard.com/article/pti-stories/sp-transferred-after-outrage-over-murder-of-two-missing-men-116052701175_1.html
143
14
SP transferred after outrage over murder of two missing men

Harda district superintendent of police Prembabu Sharma was today transferred to the police headquarters here following a public outrage over killing of two brothers including a lawyer. An order of the state Home Department said Sharma was being transferred to PHQ as an assistant inspector general of police. It did not cite any reason for the sudden transfer. Charred bodies of Bhopal-based lawyer Navin Agrawal and his elder brother Sudhir, a businessman, were found in a forested area in Hoshangabad district yesterday after the two went missing on May 23 from Harda district. Their family and the local people demanded suspension of the SP for alleged laxity in the probe. The two brothers were killed over a property dispute, according to the police. Of the 12 accused, seven have been arrested so far. Sonali, Navin's wife, had yesterday staged a protest in front of Sirali police station in Harda and threatened to commit suicide if the SP and other police officers were not suspended ...

Harda district superintendent of police Prembabu Sharma was today transferred to the police headquarters here following a public outrage over killing of two brothers including a lawyer.



An order of the state Home Department said Sharma was being transferred to PHQ as an assistant inspector general of police. It did not cite any reason for the sudden transfer.



Charred bodies of Bhopal-based lawyer Navin Agrawal and his elder brother Sudhir, a businessman, were found in a forested area in Hoshangabad district yesterday after the two went missing on May 23 from Harda district.



Their family and the local people demanded suspension of the SP for alleged laxity in the probe.



The two brothers were killed over a property dispute, according to the police. Of the 12 accused, seven have been arrested so far.



Sonali, Navin's wife, had yesterday staged a protest in front of Sirali police station in Harda and threatened to commit suicide if the SP and other police officers were not suspended for dereliction of duty.



Sudhir's wife Shilpa too alleged that police had been sluggish in probing the disappearance of the two men and had the police acted swiftly, their lives could have been saved.



The advocates at district court abstained from work yesterday and members of Agrawal community also staged a demonstration in front of the Home Minister Babulal Gaur's official residence here, demanding action against police.

Press Trust of India