http://thenationonlineng.net/abia-governorship-tussle-ikpeazu-ogahs-supporters-put-state-edge/
141
14
Supporters of Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State and those of his rival for the governorship, Dr. Uchechukwu Ogah have taken their battle to the court of public opinion while legal fireworks continue in the court rooms.

Although the two gladiators are members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP),the state executive committee of the party has thrown its weight behind the governor and vowed yesterday to resist any attempt to remove him from office for Ogah.

Chairman of the party in the state, Chief Johnson Onuigbo, rising from an emergency meeting of the party in Umuahia denounced moves to oust Ikpeazu as a rape of democracy.

Democracy,according to him, is under threat in the state, as those who do not believe in the rule of law are determined to scuttle democracy which many people struggled for and lost their lives in the process.

He said while there is nothing wrong in an aggrieved person going to court to seek redress,there should also be nothing wrong in another person exercising his right of appeal at a higher level.

He said Ikpeazu cannot vacate office until the court decides on his appeal.

He alleged that the situation in Abia was being instigated from outside the state.

He said:”Abia is not safe as there is a rumour that the Government House will be invaded by the military which is backed by the Presidency.

“We do not want to believe that, as President Mohammadu Buhari is a man of integrity, but we want the world to know what is happening.

“As a party we will resist any move by anyone to undermine the peace in the state and as a government that believes in the rule of law we have obtained an injunction stopping the swearing in of Ogar”.

“If the people involved ignore the court injunction, there will be anarchy.As we are in a democracy, impunity should not be condoned, we are in a war in Abia state.

“We are ready for them.We are ready to die.If they do it,they are inviting anarchy and confusion in the state.

“We are in a democracy so we want the world to hear and know that we are being short changed in Abia.”

Ogah’s spokesperson Emma Iheanacho writing on his Facebook wall yesterday said: “The Governor- Elect of Abia State, His Excellency, Dr. Uche Ogah, has thumbed up INEC for obeying the order of the Federal High Court, Abuja in issuing certificate of returns to him in Abuja yesterday (Thursday).

“Speaking to Abia Breeze of Destiny, who paid him solidarity visit, he said that INEC’s issuance of certificate of return to him in Abuja yesterday demonstrated show of transparency and non partisan in the line of duty. He urged all other parties and agencies in the electoral process to emulate INEC to ensure that our democracy succeeds.

|”Dr. Ogah also commended the verdict of the Federal High Court in Abuja that gave the landmark judgement. He praised the courage of Justice Okon Abang in delivering the judgement without fear or favor because there were incontrovertible evidences against Dr. Ikpeazu.

“Dr. Ogah assured the people that as he had earlier told Abians, his call to serve Abia State as governor is a divine mandate to make Abia a model state in Nigeria and, he will not disappoint God.”

In another post, Iheanacho said: “The Governor-Elect of Abia State, His Excellency, Dr. Uche Ogah, has commended Abians for their resilience and steadfastness all through the period of the struggle, and urged them to go about their normal duties irrespective of the pronouncement by Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu.

“He told them that Dr. Ikpeazu does not have any legal and constitutional authority to declare public holidays in Abia State except for mischief, having had his certificate of return withdrawn by INEC. The Governor- Elect said that his administration will work closely with late Chief Ojo Maduekwe’s family and others to honor the deceased, who is a great son of Abia State

“Dr. Ogah described late Chief Ojo Maduekwe as a great patriot who deserves a befitting funeral.”

And speaking to The Nation by phone,Iheanacho said : “there are high expectations among the people to see Dr.Uche Ogah assume office.He has been receiving congratulatory messages and hordes of visitors,individuals and groups from all walks of life.

“In fact,as I am talking to you now people are trooping in to rejoice with him.The people of Abia are happy with the development and can’t wait to see him assume office.”

Information Commissioner Bonnie Iwuoha dismissed Iheanacho’s claims as false.

He said Abians had been protesting in their hundreds to show their displeasure for Ogah.

He said:”Abians from the 17 local government areas of the state yesterday (Thursday) came out in their numbers to protest against any attempt to foist Ogah on them.

“The people pledged their support for Ikpeazu who enjoined them to be calm. The people vowed to resist any plan to swear in someone who did not contest any elections but wants to take over the governance of the state. As I am talking to you now, I am in the Government House and I can assure you that every where is calm.”

The President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief Gary Enwo Igariwey said the group was studying the development and “would not immediately make comment because the matter is still in court”.

Residents of Aba, Abia State expressed mixed feelings over the political development.

Some of them feared that the state was heading towards anarchy if nothing urgent was done to arrest the situation.

Sylvanus Okorie said:” politicians in this state should be careful in their actions to avoid causing anarchy. The right thing should be done. Our concern is for the court especially a higher court to tell us who is the authentic governor of the state.”

The All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Abia State chapter described the development as a family affair which the PDP should handle without problem if indeed it is one family.

The state chairman of APGA,the Rev. Augustine Ehiemere warned that the situation should not be allowed to degenerate into a crisis that would threaten people’s lives and property.

”Since Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu and his legal team said they have appealed against the judgment which is the right thing to do, it will be greatly unfair should his supporters resort to self help through violence moreover when the ban on protest was still in force,” he said.

He asked the gladiators to “immediately cease all anti democratic actions that are capable of plunging Abia State into state of anarchy”.

APGA threatened it would be compelled to approach the Federal Government to declare a state of emergency in Abia to prevent a breakdown of law and order if its advice was not heeded.

A legal practitioner and executive Director Coalition of Lawyers Against Corruption in Nigeria (COLACN), Barr. Olusegun Bamgbose said: “if we look at the legal implication we will be able to find a solution to the pressing problem because the two different individual are laying claims to the governor of Abia state.

“From the legal point of view, once an order is made it must be obeyed except it is set aside by a higher court. In this case there is an order in place and that order stands till a higher order sets it aside.

“ If not for the public holidays declared by the state on Friday and Monday including the one the declared by the federal government, we should have been able to get a clearer picture as from Monday and Tuesday. But as it stands now, we have to wait till Thursday and Friday before we can look at what the court will do. I am sure that the both parties will be working seriously against next week Thursday.”