http://www.politico.com/blogs/swing-states-2016-election/2016/08/clinton-trump-arizona-north-carolina-227379
141
14
Donald Trump leads Hillary Clinton 49 to 44 in Arizona, but trails her in North Carolina. | Getty Poll: Trump leads Clinton by 5 in Arizona

Donald Trump holds a five-point lead over Hillary Clinton among likely voters in Arizona, according to a CNN/ORC poll released on Wednesday.

Arizona has been a reliably red state in past presidential elections, and it is not among the 11 swing states being tracked by POLITICO’s Battleground States polling average. Republican nominee Mitt Romney carried the state by more than 10 percentage points in 2012. Trump leads Clinton 49 percent to 44 percent as of now, CNN/ORC found.

But changing demographics are giving some Democrats hope of putting Arizona into their column this year. Republicans, meanwhile, have expressed concern that rhetoric from Trump that is perceived to be anti-immigrant could hurt him and other GOP candidates with the state's large Hispanic population. Arizona Sen. John McCain said as much last May at a private fundraiser: “If Donald Trump is at the top of the ticket, here in Arizona, with over 30 percent of the vote being the Hispanic vote, no doubt that this may be the race of my life.”

In North Carolina, Clinton holds a two-point lead over Trump -- within the poll's margin of error.

Asked who they would prefer in a two-way race between the Democratic and Republican tickets, 48 percent of the likely voters reached said they would prefer the former secretary of state while 46 percent favored Trump.

In a four-way race that also includes Libertarian Gary Johnson, Clinton and Trump are tied among likely voters at 45 percent. Johnson earned the support of 9 percent of likely voters who responded to the poll. Dr. Jill Stein, the Green Party candidate, is not on the ballot in North Carolina.

Trump and his running mate, Indiana Gov. Mike Pence, have campaigned especially hard in North Carolina. Pence delivered a speech there Wednesday and Trump held rallies in the state last week and the week before that.

The CNN/ORC poll is the second one released Wednesday to show Trump and Clinton tied in North Carolina. A Monmouth University poll released earlier Wednesday put the former secretary of state up two points, 44 percent to 42 percent, over Trump among likely voters. In POLITICO’s Battleground States polling average, Clinton leads Trump 44.6 percent to 40.4 percent in North Carolina.

The CNN/ORC poll was conducted in both Arizona and North Carolina from Aug. 18-23, reaching respondents via both landlines and cell phones. For Arizona, the poll reached 809 likely voters, also with a margin of error of plus-or-minus 3.5 percent. For North Carolina, the poll included 803 likely voters with a margin of error of plus-or-minus 3.5 percent.