http://thenationonlineng.net/oau-shut-workers-protest/
141
14
THE Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun State yesterday was shut down following workers protest over appointment of the institution’s new vice chancellor, Prof. Ayobami Salami.

Workers of the OAU under the aegis of Non Academic Staff of Universities (NASU) and Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (SSANU) till yesterday intensified their protest over non-payment of allowances and alleged imposition of a vice-chancellor despite the “no-work, no-pay” threat by the university’s authorities.

The workers, who claimed that the new vice chancellor’s appointment was illegal, vowed to stop him from resuming office tomorrow.

The authorities shut down the university less than two days to the expiration of the tenure of the outgoing vice chancellor, Prof. Bamitale Omole.

In a public announcement, monitored on Ife-based radio station, the university’s Registrar, Dotun Awoyemi, explained that the closure was to ensure the safety of students and staff.

He said: “We have shut down the university indefinitely pending the time that we will resolve issues with our workers – NASU and SSANU. We have asked our newly students to go home and postponed the resumption of old students indefinitely.”

The old students of the university are expected to resume next week after a two-month break.

But the national leadership of the Non Academic Staff Union of Universities (NASU) yesterday dissolved the leadership of the university (OAU) branch.

The National Executive in a June 21 letter cited continued violation of the union’s constitution in the ongoing crisis over the appointment of a new Vice Chancellor for the institution as the reason for the sack.

It accused the branch leadership of carrying out protest and industrial action without the permission of the national leadership, adding that it acted in disregard to its earlier plea for leniency in a recent meeting with the General Secretary at its Ibadan liaison office.

The letter, signed by the General Secretary, A. Adeyemi, said the dissolution of the Executive takes effect from June 20.

It directed the leadership of the OAU branch to hand over properties in their care to branch financial secretary.