http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2016/07/19/people-have-harboured-this-animosity-for-a-long-time-why-baton-r/
141
14
The current upsurge began early this month, with the July 5 shooting of Alton Sterling – a black 37-year-old CD seller who was pinned to the floor by two white police officers and shot. They claim he was reaching for his gun; his supporters claim he posed no threat.

A day later a black man in Minnesota was shot dead by police at a traffic stop; the following day, five police officers in Dallas were killed in retaliation for the shootings.

Protests in Baton Rouge turned toxic; 150 people were arrested last weekend, as heavily-armed police seized demonstrators in scenes beamed around the world.

Then, on Sunday, the terrible wheel turned again: the spotlight once again on Baton Rouge, with the killing of three police officers by another black man enraged at authority, and angry at police shootings.

“We don’t know why he chose Baton Rouge,” said Colonel Mike Edmonson of Louisiana state police, speaking at an emotional press conference on Monday.

“We don’t know whether he had help.

“But we know this much: the person who killed those police officers was killed by the police.”

For Dr Jemison Pollard, the reopening of old wounds is painful – but not entirely unexpected.

Her father, T J Jemison, was Martin Luther King’s mentor and organised the first bus boycott, to protest against black people being forbidden from sitting on seats reserved for white people – even when the “whites only” section was empty.

Jemison and his colleagues arranged for the black community to stop using the buses – and, given that they made up the majority of the bus users, the effect was drastic. Women from his church gathered at the Jemison house to coordinate car sharing, and a black businessman, Horatio Thompson – the first African American in the South to own an Esso franchise – provided fuel.

Within eight days the bus company had backed down, and allowed blacks to sit on the white seats. Martin Luther King told in his autobiography how this first ever bus boycott was the blueprint for the much more famous Montgomery boycott, in 1955.

“Dad was ten years older, so he was a mentor to Martin,” recalled Dr Jemison Pollard. “Then he left the civil rights leadership, as he went on to head up the National Baptist Convention.

“So he was always active, but not one of the leaders. He left that to Martin.”

Her father, born in Selma, retired in 2003, after 54 years preaching in Baton Rouge. He died in 2013, aged 95.

“I know he would have been incredibly saddened by what is happening now,” she said, speaking to The Telegraph from her home in Houston, Texas, where she is a university professor.