http://www.iol.co.za/capetimes/two-shot-dead-in-pretoria-amid-looting-2037547
145
14
Police spokesperson Noxolo Kweza said no arrests had been made in connection with the deaths.

PRETORIA: Gauteng police confirmed yesterday that two people were shot dead in Mamelodi, north-east of Pretoria, as several shops were looted in the area overnight.

ESCAPING THE LAW: Residents flee after police officers were called to a shop which was being looted in Slovo Extension 4, Mamelodi.Picture: Oupa Mokoena.

ESCAPING THE LAW: Residents flee after police officers were called to a shop which was being looted in Slovo Extension 4, Mamelodi.Picture: Oupa Mokoena. Credit: INL SA

“I can confirm that two people were shot and killed. We haven’t arrested anybody yet,” said Kweza.

The two were allegedly part of a mob attempting to rob a Pakistani-owned shop in the location.

Kweza said that by yesterday morning, police had arrested more than 40 people after incidents of violence amid continuing protests across Pretoria.

“Some of the people were arrested in Atteridgeville, Hercules, Mabopane, Soshanguve and Mamelodi. They will appear in court soon. They have been charged with public violence, theft and possession of stolen property.”

Appealing for calm in the strife-riddled areas, Gauteng police commissioner Lieutenant-General Deliwe De Lange said “the lawlessness happening in various areas in Tshwane will not be tolerated”.

Streets across numerous Pretoria townships were still littered with rubble and tree branches yesterday, forcing motorists to drive on pavements.

In Atteridgeville, west of Pretoria, disgruntled ANC members were no longer protesting on the streets, but the roads were heavily littered.

Scrap metal dealers had stripped parts from a heavy delivery truck which was torched on Tuesday along WF Nkomo Street, leading into Atteridgeville.

In Soshanguve and Mabopane, north of the city, calm prevailed in the morning despite reports of shops being looted overnight.

The streets were, however, strewn with debris. Motorists were also negotiating their way through the rubble. Taxis were moving freely on the streets.

Violence erupted in Pretoria on Sunday as news filtered that former cabinet minister Thoko Didiza would be named the city’s mayoral candidate for the ANC, ahead of incumbent Tshwane mayor and ANC regional chairperson Kgosientso Ramokgopa.

Residents said they were not happy with Didiza and wanted Ramokgopa to remain in his position.

Ramokgopa and his regional ANC deputy chairperson, Mapiti Matsena, distanced themselves from the protests this week, condemning the violence. They called on residents to accept the mayoral candidacy and rally behind Didiza. – ANA