http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3722765/Bus-torched-street-gang-brandishing-Molotov-cocktails-riots-against-police-racism-rage-troubled-suburb-Paris.html
145
14
This is the horrifying moment a gang in Paris hurled Molotov cocktails onto a bus, torching the vehicle during a riot against 'police racism'.

The masked men, who were protesting against supposed 'police racism', stopped the 170 bus in the troubled northern suburb of Saint-Denis last week.

The bus was brought to a halt after the gang members blocked the road with bins before they started chucking bricks through its windows.

Frightening footage shows the men throwing Molotov cocktails under and onto the bus, sparking a raging inferno.

Scroll down for video

This is the horrifying moment a gang in Paris hurled Molotov cocktails onto a bus, setting the vehicle on fire and destroying it

The bus was brought to a halt after the gang members blocked the road with bins before they started chucking bricks through its windows

The riot was linked to widespread anger in the largely immigrant community following the death of a 24-year-old man in police custody.

Police said 15 passengers escaped before the fire took hold, along with the bus driver. All were said to be ‘shaken but otherwise unhurt'.

The violence was ‘linked to protests against the police that have been going on for a number of days,' a police spokesman said.

The attack, in the early hours of July 28, left the bus a smoking wreck, with firemen dousing the flames with three water cannons. The wreckage was removed at around 4am that morning.

The police spokesman said that – contrary to some reports – there was ‘no terrorist or Islamist link to the attack whatsoever’.

He said there was ‘no evidence’ that religious slogans had been shouted out by the bus attackers.

The masked men, who were protesting against 'police racism', stopped the 170 bus in the northern suburb of Saint-Denis last week

Frightening footage shows the men throwing Molotov cocktails under and onto the bus, sparking a raging inferno

Instead, it was carried out by youths protesting following the death of Adama Traore, who died in the commuter town of Beaumont-sur-Oise, 20 miles north of Paris, on July 19.

The apparently fit and healthy 24-year-old was initially said to have died from ‘asphyxia’ while in a police cell.

Officers backed up by medical experts have meanwhile insisted that he had a ‘weak heart’, and the confusion has led to protests all over France.

An Internet campaign has been organised using the #BlackLivesMatter hastag, and there have been nightly disturbances in the suburbs of major cities.

Police said 15 passengers escaped before the fire took hold, along with the bus driver. All were said to be ‘shaken but otherwise unhurt'

The attack, in the early hours of July 28, left the bus a smoking wreck, with firemen dousing the flames with three water cannons

The riots followed the death of Adama Traore, 24, who died in police custody last week

France is currently under a state of emergency following terrorist attacks across the country over the past year-and-a-half that have left some 250 dead.

The worst atrocity happened in Paris, where soldiers and police have been patrolling the streets constantly.

Referring to the bus attack, local mayor Didier Paillard said: ‘This act of premeditated vandalism, the consequences of which could have been tragic, follows an attempted homicide on a worker by a Molotov cocktail on July 22 and buildings being looted.’

Buses are frequently attacked by political protesters in France, as are bus shelters.