http://nation.com.pk/lahore/06-Aug-2016/outrageous-outages
141
14
LAHORE - Hundreds of villagers yesterday blocked traffic at Thoker Niaz Beg bypass in protest against prolonged power cuts in their areas causing miles long queues of vehicles at Lahore-Islamabad motorways and GT Road for hours.



The travellers caught in queues from Kalashahkaku to Thoker at Motorways and from Manga to Thoker at GT Road.



Villagers said Lesco was conducting 14 to 16 hours loadshedding in their localities turning their lives into hell.

“Even water is not available for drinking of our animals,” they complained and chanted slogans against the government.



Sources in Lahore Electric Supply Company said the company was facing more than 50 per cent shortfall in its demand and supply which forced company to increased load shedding duration.



“We are giving maximum possible supply to city feeders.

There is six to seven hours load shedding in Lahore,” an official said.

Seeking anonymity, the official added that some areas were priorities in power supply at “high level” direction.



Lesco sources said the areas of Allama Iqbal Town, Samanabad, Township, Green Town, Mozang, Thoker Niaz Beg, Shahdrah, Baghwanapura, Walled City were under the grip of eight to 10 hours shutdown while there were six hours load shedding in developed localities.



Worst tripping and consecutive power cuts from areas to areas besides low voltage supply was another mess which the consumers of Lahore face on daily basis in hot and humid weather.



“Lesco manages supply by the tactics of conducting long hours load shedding and low voltage supply in one or two divisions and shifting the power supply to other areas,” said the insides.



Sources in power sector say not only Lesco but other power distribution company were also adopting the same tactics in their areas and they totally ignored the rural and under privileged areas in power supply.



The country’s overall electricity demand is touching 20,000MW these days against the total generation of less than 14,000MW.



The hydel generation is hovering around 5,000MW and the rest 9,000MW is being shared by IPPs and government owned generation companies.



The average load shedding in urban areas is around eight to 10 hours and consumers of rural areas are under the grip of more than 12 hours shutdown.

