http://nation.com.pk/lahore/18-Jun-2016/mall-blockade-triggers-traffic-mess
141
14
LAHORE - The Mall blockade yesterday triggered worst traffic mess in several parts of the metropolis where some 2,300 policemen are deployed to provide security cover to workers of the Pakistan Awami Tehrik.



Police blocked major portion of the mall road early yesterday for vehicular traffic by placing heavy containers around the venue.

Several busy crossings were also blocked by traffic police by putting barriers and barricades.



The situation got worse after the wardens diverted the traffic flow towards alternative roads.

The police action caused worst traffic mess in the surroundings.



Thousands of PAT protesters are observing sit-in on the mall road, Lahore’s busiest and the most important artery, to protest against the killing of 14 party workers in June 2014.

Another 80 workers also sustained bullet injuries during violent clashes with the police outside the party’s secretariat in Model Town.



Many parts of the provincial metropolis witnessed worst traffic jumbles as police blocked several roads and crossings after PAT protesters rallied on The Mall during.



Whenever The Mall is blocked, the wardens divert the traffic to alternative routes.

The practice causes worst traffic jumbles in the areas of Civil Lines, Garhi Shahu, Racecourse, Qila Gujjar Singh, Lower Mall, Samanabad, Lytton Road, and Lower Mall, and Mozang.

Also, commuters on Ferozpur Road, Jail Road, Canal Road, and Davis Road are got stuck in the traffic mess a few hours before Iftaar.



Hundreds of traffic wardens are seen struggling on city roads to manage the snarl-ups manually.

The roadblocks in certain areas quickly disrupt the flow of traffic in others parts of the metropolis, according to experts.

Authorities believe the bumpy ride along dug-up roads would continue for years in the city since the multi-billion metro train project is under construction, and “is expected to be completed by the end of 2017.



Meanwhile, a senior police officer told The Nation that at least 2300 police officials are deployed on security duties to protect the protesters.

Hundreds of plainclothesmen were also deployed in the area to deeply monitor the activities of the miscreants.

He said the police would come into action if the protesters tried to take the law into their hands.

He said the police were directed to ensure three-layer security.



Over 500 PAT volunteers were also deployed around the venue to search the participants before allowing them entry towards the main venue.

