http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/financetopics/davos/12117416/Britain-needs-to-settle-uncomfortable-relationship-with-EU-warns-Osborne.html
30
3
George Osborne has urged his European partners to agree a deal to resolve Britain's "uncomfortable relationship" with the EU by next month.

The Chancellor said a deal would forge a "better working relationship" between euro and non-euro members and "make the case for Britain to stay in a reformed European Union".

It came as Christine Lagarde, the managing director of the International Monetary Fund warned that the prospect of Britain leaving the EU was one of ​ her​ two "biggest concerns".​

Mr Osborne said an agreement could be reached as early as February's European Council meeting, as he called on policymakers to reach consensus so countries could re-focus on dealing with the refugee crisis, which Ms Lagarde said was the Fund's other major concern.

Eurozone protection is "the most significant part of our discussions with our colleagues"

Speaking at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, Mr Osborne said: "If there's an opportunity to do the deal then and frankly with lots of other things going on for the EU, like the challenges in Schengen, I would say it's in their interest as well to give us the agreement that works for everyone in the EU."

The Chancellor said it was important "not to ignore" concerns such as the issue of migrant benefits.

However, he described the issue of securing safeguards from ever closer union in the eurozone as "the most significant part of our discussions with our colleagues".

• Britain's EU renegotiation will force ECB into action, says Draghi

"I think this is going to find a resting place in proper protections and a lasting arrangement so that a large non-euro member can co-exist with the eurozone.

"Those changes may resolve this uncomfortable relationship Britain has with its EU partners where the UK is endlessly being asked to take part in further integration it doesn’t want to be part of."

Speaking alongside Mr Osborne, Ms Lagarde said a deal with the UK, would be "really conducive to more stability and a more cohesive and economic zone."

The government will hold a referendum on Britain's membership of the EU by the end of 2017, with a February agreement on the terms of the deal likely to pave the way for a referendum by the end of this year.

Earlier this month, Jean-Claude Juncker, the head of the European Commission, said he was "quite sure" that a new deal would be agreed next month.

However, David Cameron, ​the P​rime ​M​inister, said ​last week at Davos​ that​ he would not "hurry" to get a deal done.