http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/economy/agriculture/farmers-are-digging-borewells-up-to-2000-feet-in-kolar-in-karnataka/articleshow/51758313.cms
143
14
Rows of plastic pots in bright colours and in different states of disrepair converge at a tap at Thotli village in Kolar district in Karnataka, though no owner is in sight. The water for the day has already been collected after a two-hour wait in the morning; these pots mark their place in the queue for the next day, explains Bhagyamma, who stays across the road from the public tap.She gets two pots of water from the tap and spends Rs 8001,000 a week on buying water from a tanker. "We need at least 15 pots just for household needs. With cattle, it will be double," she says. In the next village Thernahalli, Ramachandra Gowda, who grows tomatoes on two acres, says he had to dig 1,800 ft before he got to water in his borewell."It's getting worse. Last year, we had to dig 1,500 ft and this year it is 1,800-2,000 ft," says Gowda, who also buys four tankers of water every four days at Rs 1,000 for his crops. Gowda was among the 10,000 farmers from Kolar and Chikballapur in southern interior Karnataka, who had descended on Bengaluru last month to protest against drinking water crisis, after their 165-day of agitation in Kolar came to naught.They arrived in tractors and on bullock carts to drive home the point that they were suffering while the capital remained ignorant of their water woes. "We came to Bengaluru to ask for water, but got lathicharged in return," says Gowda. Last September, all five taluks in Kolar district were declared drought-hit. According to a December 2015 report by a parliamentary standing committee on water resources, 23 per cent of the groundwater assessment units in Karnataka were found to be over-exploited, making it one of the nine states in the country where the groundwater levels had reached a critical stage.While the drought-hit Kolar and Chikballapur regions might have got some relief during the north-east monsoon late last year, the northern interior districts of Karnataka continue to suffer from the worst drought the area has seen in years. "There was a 32 per cent rainfall deficiency during the south-west monsoon and a 54 per cent shortfall during the north-east monsoon in 12 districts of northern Karnataka.Together, it becomes the most severe deficiency the region has witnessed in the last 45 years," says G Srinivasa Raju, director of the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre. Out of the 69 taluks in northern interior Karnataka, 62 have been declared droughthit during the rabi season. This year, 32 lakh hectares in the state were affected by the dry spell during the south-west monsoon, while 22 lakh hectares were affected during the rabi season. The 12 districts in northern Karnataka bore the brunt of the failure of the rabi crop, with the loss estimated at over Rs 7,200 crore.A 45 per cent shortfall in reservoir levels and the drought in Maharashtra reducing the flow of the Krishna river into the Kabini catchment area were compounding woes, says Raju. "In the short-term, drinking water has to be provided, fodder banks opened and employment generation has to be stepped up through MGNREGA, while water-shed development works should be taken up as a long-term strategy," he adds. Karnataka's agriculture minister, Krishna Byre Gowda, identifies the same challenges in drought-relief measures. "Agriculturally, this is the off-season, so our focus is on providing drinking water to people, fodder for livestock and employment," he says.For this, Rs 250 crore has been made released as emergency funds with district collectors, out of which Rs 130 crore is still available. While Rs 50 lakh has been released to each assembly constituency, another Rs 50 lakh each will be released this month, says minister Gowda on the phone from Bidar, as part of his tour of the northern districts. "Anticipating the crisis to worsen next month, we have told the district collectors to procure fodder from wherever it is available and set up fodder banks. Chief minister Siddaramaiah has said that they should open these without waiting for the people to approach them."So far, 72 fodder banks and some gaushalas have been opened in the drought-affected areas. Others, like the Infosys Foundation, have also stepped in to augment government efforts in providing drinking water. "The drought is very serious this year. Every day, we are making around 40 tanker trips but we want to take it to 100, if we find a good source of water," says Sudha Murty, chair person of the foundation. They are currently giving fodder for animals and supplying water to areas in north Karnataka where gram panchayats have approached their volunteers."We intend to continue till the rains come," adds Murty. In Kolar, the administration is supplying water in tankers to 36 villages. It has also set up 195 units, with reverse osmosis facilities, which are supplying drinking water at Rs 2 for 20 litres, says additional deputy commissioner RS Pedapayya. "We also have the second highest number of farm ponds in the state. It supplements irrigation, even though it might not recharge the groundwater," he says.While temporary measures might provide relief, farmer associations want permanent solutions, such as the implementation of the Yargol project which, although commissioned by the then chief minister HD Kumaraswamy in 2006, is yet to see any progress beyond the laying of the foundation stone. The project involves building a composite dam across the Markandeya river near Yargol village, with a storage capacity of 787 TMC (thousand million cubic feet)."If the Yargol project is completed, Kolar's perpetual water crisis will be resolved," says K Narayana Gowda, state vice-president of the farmers' organisation Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha. The association plans to renew their agitation for permanent potable water supply soon. "We will launch our next agitation in Kolar on April 15, with 15,000 people," he says. In northern interior Karnataka, persuading farmers to look beyond water-guzzling crops like sugarcane remains a challenge while formulating long-term solutions to drought, acknowledges minister Byre Gowda."In my conversations with farmers, when I ask them what crop will they grow next, they immediately say sugarcane, because it is the easiest to grow. We are encouraging them to use measures like micro irrigation, but I'm not sure there will be a structural shift in crops in the medium term," he says. The prediction for the monsoon is expected in the third week of April and signs so far point to a normal monsoon, he says. "That is absolutely crucial for Karnataka, where some taluks have been facing drought for five consecutive years. If the monsoon is below normal, all our efforts would be in vain."