http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3837359/Salute-Queen-world-s-longest-reigning-living-monarch-death-king-Thailand.html
141
14
Queen Elizabeth II visits the Corps of Royal Engineers at Brompton Barracks in Chatham to celebrate their 300th anniversary

It was the day that she became the longest reigning monarch in the world.

And for the Queen, as is so often the case, it was business as usual.

The latest landmark for Her Majesty came as Thailand announced the death of its king after 70 years on the throne.

King Bhumibol Adulyadej, 88, had reigned since June 9 1946.

The Queen, who turned 90 in April, has reigned for 64 years, having succeeded her father, King George VI, in February 1952.

On September 15 last year she surpassed the previous British record, held by her great-great grandmother, Queen Victoria, having ruled this country for 23,226 days, 16 hours and some 30 minutes.

Just like last autumn, when she insisted that overtaking her illustrious ancestor was 'not a record to which I have ever aspired', the Queen will take no great pleasure in capturing the world record – for to do so would be seen to be glorifying the death of a fellow head of state.

It will also be an uncomfortable reminder that to rule for the same period – seven decades – would take her to the grand age of 96 while her husband, Prince Philip, with whom she will celebrate 70 years of marriage next November, would be 101.

Divers of the Royal Engineers salute the Queen at the Centenary of the Corps of the Royal Engineers at Brompton Barracks

The Queen, on duty yesterday to mark the 300th anniversary of the Royal Engineers in Chatham, Kent, will also be acutely aware that the Thai people are grieving for their revered ruler, many of whom took to the streets last night crying and clutching pictures of the king.

The Queen - wearing a Stewart Parvin turquoise green wool dress with matching coat and a Royal Engineers brooch - inspected 140 troops from an open-top Range Rover.

As she viewed heavy specialist equipment, she was saluted by two troops in a water tank in front of guests including musician Jools Holland, who attended in his role as a deputy lieutenant of Kent.

The Queen visited the barracks as she became the world's longest living reigning monarch

She said the title was not something she aspired too, as it celebrated the death of a fellow head of state. Above left, the Queen at the barracks, above right, the salute given by the diver

In her address, the Queen said that since 1716 the Corps of Royal Engineers has been 'at the forefront of operations and often in difficult circumstances'.

There was no immediate statement from Buckingham Palace last night but Prime Minister Theresa May and Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson joined leaders around the world in paying tribute to the monarch, whose death will be marked with a one-year mourning period by Thai government officials.

Mrs May said: 'His Majesty guided the Kingdom of Thailand with dignity, dedication and vision throughout his life. He will be greatly missed.

'Our thoughts are with the people of Thailand at this difficult time.'

Thai Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha announced that the government will observe one year of mourning and flags will fly at half-staff for 30 days.

King Bhumibol Adulyadej - whose name means 'strength of the land, incomparable power' - had been in poor health for a number of years and was rarely seen in public but was still viewed as something of a demi-God.

His popularity stemmed partly from his long reign, but he was also viewed as a pillar of stability.

Strict lese-majeste laws banned any criticism of him or the Thai royal family. In August 2015, a man was sentenced to 30 years in prison by a Thai military court for insulting the country's monarchy on Facebook.

Queen Elizabeth with King Bhumibol in Thailand in 1996, when she was on royal tour with her husband Philip, the Duke of Edinburgh

Earlier this week it emerged that the 88-year-old had been taken to a Bangkok's Siriraj Hospital where he was in a critical condition.

An announcement by the royal household said he had 'passed away peacefully' with family members around him at 3.52 local time, 9.52 BST.

The palace did not provide further details or give a specific cause of death.

Earlier this week it had said he was on a ventilator, battling kidney problems, leaving many Thais to fear the worst.

The world will now be watching to see how Thailand's ruling military junta react to what is certain to be a pivotal and unstable moment for the country.

King Bhumibol will be succeeded by his named successor, Crown Prince Maha Vajiralongkorn, but he does not command the same deep affection. He spends much of his time abroad and is considered something of a playboy.

The Queen has some way to go before she becomes the world's longest reigning monarch ever.

King Sobhuza II of Swaziland, who died in 1982, holds this title. He was just four months old when he became king and ruled for 82 years and 253 days.

It was estimated that he had about 210 children from at least 70 wives and by the time of his death, he had more than 1,000 grandchildren.

The longest reign of any monarch of a large country in European history belongs to Louis XIV of France - who was also known as Louis the Great, or the Sun King.