http://www.news.com.au/national/northern-territory/senator-nigel-scullion-warns-kormilda-college-there-will-be-no-more-federal-rescue-packages/news-story/e6a1592077793331a0f9875cd8daba49
141
14
PHILLIPPA BUTT NT News

There will be no more federal bailouts for embattled Kormilda College, NT senator Nigel Scullion has warned.

The Indigenous Affairs Minister toured the embattled school yesterday following last week’s bailout by the Federal Government for 2017.

Mr Scullion knew how much the bailout would cost, which will come out of the Indigenous Advancement Strategy fund, but would not share the information.

Despite praising the school’s programs and saying no programs should be cut from the syllabus, he warned the Federal Government would not step in again.

“This will be the last chance to dance with the Commonwealth, know that,” he said.

“This is a great opportunity to make sure that we put Kormilda on a sustainable footing, not only for 2017 but for the future.”

When asked where the savings would come from, Mr Scullion said the school’s unique programs, such as its medical centre, shouldn’t be cut.

“A cut of a program is just lazy,” he said. “You’ve got to examine every way of keeping it. Instead of just cutting, we’ve got to have a more sophisticated approach.”

One possible solution he suggested was to have the on-site medical centre funded by the Health department, rather than the Education department.

“They’re issues that we need to work with Kormilda with to insure that we can defray some costs that are not appropriate to the education element of Kormilda,” he said.

“It’s all about having a business approach. Being absolutely fair dinkum, everybody got to put their shoulder to the wheel, be completely open and transparent about what the issues are, and ... I have a high level of confidence.”

The Federal Government bailout came after weeks of uncertainty for the school’s future. The college currently has about 180 indigenous boarding students and is able to accommodate up to 230 indigenous students.

AFL legend, and former Kormilda boarder, Michael Long, joined the fight to save the college by leading a public rally of more than 400 people at Parliament House last week. The former Essendon and premiership-winning star called for the royal commission into youth detention to be scrapped, and for that money to instead be spent on keeping Kormilda College open for another year.