http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3630367/Activists-burn-American-flag-outside-NYC-police-station-protest-death-16-year-old-teenager-cops-say-NOT-targeted-racially-motivated-hate-crime.html
141
14
Activists burned an American flag outside a Staten Island police station to protest the death of a black teenager who died last month.

The flag burning, which was filmed and posted to YouTube, was held outside the 121st Precinct station in New York City on Saturday as a tribute to 16-year-old Dayshen McKenzie, who died from an asthma attack after being chased by a rival gang.

McKenzie was running from a group of men who were allegedly armed and yelling racist jibes, but the NYPD said they would not be investigating his death as a hate crime.

Scroll down for video

Activists burned an American flag outside a Staten Island police station to protest the death of 16-year-old black teenager Dayshen McKenzie, who died last month

'We light fire for the ancestors who have gone before us who were lynched. We light this flag for Dayshen McKenzie, who was lynched,' one woman said during the protest, which was filmed and posted on YouTube

McKenzie was running from a group of men who were allegedly armed and yelling racist jibes, but the NYPD said they would not be investigating his death as a hate crime

'We light fire for the ancestors who have gone before us who were lynched. We light this flag for Dayshen McKenzie, who was lynched,' one woman said during the protest.

The video was posted to YouTube on Tuesday by a group called Copwatch NYC CPU (Copwatch Patrol Unit), the local division of a national grassroots movement that monitors and records police activity.

While the group initially laughed as one activist struggled to light the flag, the tone turned somber after members of the group called out the names Trayvon Martin, Eric Garner, Freddie Gray, and Sandra Bland, among many others.

When the flag turned into ash, one member of the group said: 'That flag does not represent us.'

A NYPD spokesman told the NY Post the protesters were within their Constitutional rights to burn the flag in public.

McKenzie, who had asthma and a heart condition, was with a group of his friends when he ran into a rival group behind the fast-food restaurant Checkers on May 27.

He reportedly forgot his asthma inhaler and died after the other group gave chase.

According to one witness Diane Fatigati, a former NYPD officer and 9/11 responder, the rival gang, she said consisted of white and Latino men, yelled 'I got a gun!' and 'I'm gonna shoot you, n*****,' the New York Daily News reported.

Fatigati, who performed CPR on McKenzie after he collapsed near her home, told the NYPost 'When you call someone n*****, you claim to have a gun and are threatening to shoot them, I would say it's a hate crime.'

One witness, Diane Fatigati, said the rival group yelled yelled 'I'm gonna shoot you, n*****'. But police said McKenzie's death was not the result of a hate crime (pictured center, McKenzie's mother Tisha Richardson)

McKenzie, who had asthma and a heart condition, was with a group of his friends when he ran into a rival group behind the fast-food restaurant Checkers on May 27. He ran, collapsed, and died from an asthma attack

Diane Fatigati (pictured) gave conflicting reports on whether the incident carried racial overtones

McKenzie's friend Harry Smith also told the Daily News, 'They were calling us n*******. I just heard a lot of racial slurs.'

But Fatigati gave conflicting reports, and police said none of the other witnesses mentioned 'any racial or biased-related comments'.

Chief of detectives Robert Boyce said while McKenzie's death was gang related, it did not appear to be the result of a hate crime.

Police said McKenzie was part of a mixed-race group that had gathered to watch a gang-related, 'pre-planned fight' between two youths.

McKenzie ran away with several others after someone claimed to have a gun, police said.

Police said the aspiring rapper, known to his friends as Poppa Jawn, was in the wrong place at the wrong time.

Authorities also noted no one in the other group was targeting the teen, the Daily News reported.

'It has been determined preliminarily, that McKenzie died as a result of a pre-existing medical condition,' Boyce said. 'There is no evidence, nor do we have any witnesses, indicating that it was [an] assault.'