http://indianexpress.com/article/lifestyle/art-and-culture/venkatappa-art-gallery-bengaluru-storm-in-a-gallery/
141
14
Established more than 40 years ago, the Venkatappa Art Gallery (VAG) stands in the heart of Bangalore, a reminder of the contribution of artist K Venkatappa. Born into a family of court painters in the princely state of Mysore, Venkatappa was known for his nuanced watercolours. The gallery now finds itself in the midst of a controversy involving its management. For more than a month now, artists in the state have been protesting a Memorandum of Understanding signed between the Government of Karnataka and MAP, a division of Tasveer Foundation, a trust represented by its trustee Abhishek Poddar. According to the memorandum signed in July 2015, “MAP will take up the cause of the adoption of the Venkatappa Art Gallery tourist destination… and in doing so will redevelop various facilities.” Effectively allowing Tasveer Foundation to develop and run the gallery for the next 10 years (the adoption period is five years, after which it would be renewed for another five years with mutual consent of all parties), renovate the building, add new galleries, bring in new collections and events.

“We are completely against the taking over of our only public art space, Venkatappa Art Gallery by a corporate. It is not just a benign public-private understanding. It is going to be a complete take-over by the Tasveer Foundation where the land is going to be used for rebuilding. A new building will come up. And the private collection of Abhishek Poddar and the Tasveer Foundation will be housed over there. So the artists of the state for whom the Venkatappa Art Gallery has been built will have absolutely no access to the place and it will become a wine-and-cheese place,” says artist N Pushpamala. She is part of the forum — Venkatappa Art Gallery Forum — established by artists to prevent the privatisation of the gallery. Reportedly comprising over 1,000 members across Karnataka, the group has been protesting against the move through numerous marches, using posters, whistles and symbols such as black umbrellas.

While the issue has taken political overtones, with opposition parties accusing the state government of land grab, artists feel the privatisation would shut the doors for budding artists who might not be able to afford the possibly steep rent after renovation.

Part of the three museum complex, which also comprises Visvesvaraya Industrial and Technological Museum (VITM) and Government Museum, the “adoption” is under a state tourism department drive “Adopt a tourist destination” initiated in 2014, under which it had put up more than 40 tourism sites for adoption.

In a statement posted on Facebook on April 1, Poddar says, “As part of this new scheme, which aims to raise more than 15 cr in funds, as mentioned, nothing would be taken away from the existing VAG, but a significant amount of infrastructure would be added: more galleries and exhibitions, a library and research center, a new auditorium and performance space and educational programmes. With this fact established, it seems that the resistance to these modernisation plans hinges only on nostalgia, and personal feelings towards those involved in the project.”

Meanwhile, after a meeting with Karnataka tourism minister RV Deshpande and culture minister Umashree on Thursday evening, artists protesting against the adoption said that they will propose their own alternatives for the gallery’s future on April 10.