http://www.khmertimeskh.com/news/29750/thais-to-tackle-farm-barriers/
34
3
The Thai Commerce Ministry is looking into existing trade and investment barriers for its “innovative farm products” with Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar and Vietnam, with the long-term goal of removing them, according to the Bangkok Post.



In order to boost Thai exports in the region over the next 20 years, reforms of current barriers are needed, the paper stated.



“Approved by the cabinet last week, the ministry’s long-term strategy will be divided into four phases, with the first phase (2017-21) focusing on legal reforms to facilitate trade and the second phase (2022-26) on improving local entrepreneurs so that small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) become Asean’s leading traders,” the Bangkok Post wrote.



The newspaper quotes Somkiat Triratpan, director of the ministry’s trade policy and strategy office, as saying that the removal of such barriers would be a boost to Thai entrepreneurs in the farming sector, and strengthen domestic laws and networks. By working closer with countries like Cambodia to remove obstacles to trade, he said that region as a whole would benefit.



“By 2036, we’re eager to upgrade the competitiveness and capability of Thai farmers, entrepreneurs and consumers alike,” he said. “By then, Thailand should be capable of producing more innovative farm products and food.”



Jiranun Wongmongkul, an official at the Thai embassy in Phnom Penh, told Khmer Times yesterday that one way to remove barriers was to reach direct business partnerships between companies in both countries, something that is already underway.



According to the Thai embassy, the value of Thai imports to Cambodia has decreased by almost $500,000 this year, which was attributed to increased domestic production and the fall in global oil prices.



Bilateral trade between Cambodia and Thailand was valued at $3.12 billion in the first seven months of the year, down 7.79 percent from the same period last year. Last year’s total trade was $5.6 billion, a 10 percent increase on 2014.