https://www.yahoo.com/news/mexican-witnessed-killing-honduran-activist-returns-183431768.html
141
14
TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras (AP) — An environmentalist who witnessed the murder of indigenous leader Berta Caceres in Honduras returned to his native Mexico on Friday, that country's Foreign Relations Department said.

The Honduran government had held Gustavo Castro as a witness while it investigated the March 3 murder of Caceres, who was shot four times by gunmen who broke into her home.

Gunfire hit Castro's cheek and left hand and he played dead during the attack. Fellow activists had said they feared his life could be in danger while he was still in Honduras.

Mexico's National Human Rights Commission said it would accompany Castro to his home in the southern state of Chiapas.

Caceres, who won the 2015 Goldman Environmental Prize pushing a grassroots campaign opposing a controversial dam project, had complained of death threats from police, the army and landowners' groups before she was slain.

Also Friday, the Central American Bank for Economic Integration, which is involved in financing the Agua Zarca project, announced it would send emissaries on a fact-finding mission to speak with members of communities near the hydroelectric project and also government officials.

After those visits, the bank said, it will analyze "actions to be taken with regards to the Agua Zarca Hydroelectric Project" in conjunction with the Dutch development bank FMO.

FMO said last month that it was suspending its operations in Honduras — including for the Agua Zarca project — following the killings of Caceres and one of her colleagues two weeks later.

Meanwhile Honduran authorities said this week that they carried out a raid on offices of the energy company Desarrollos Energeticos SA, or DESA, in search of possible evidence in Caceres' killing.

Prosecutors' spokesman Yuri Mora said agents confiscated some documents and weapons used by company guards that will be examined.

It was not clear why the raid, which took place March 13, was not made public before. Company officials have not commented on the raid.