http://www.hindustantimes.com/india/dadri-lynching-case-cops-told-to-submit-forensic-report-of-meat/story-xXtJcJxZWoZw2rOnbDErYM.html
141
14
A fast track court on Friday directed Noida Police to submit the forensic report on the meat seized from the house of Mohammad Ikhlaq, the man lynched in Dadri.

Lawyer of the 18 youths arrested from the village in the case objected to the framing of charges. Ramsharan Nagar told the court that he should be given a copy of all documents required to frame charges. The court will hear the matter on April 7 to initiate the framing of charges.

“We have requested the court to ask the police to provide us a copy of the forensic report... The report is important as it establishes the motive behind the incident on the basis of which police has framed our clients,” said Nagar.

Dadri deputy superintendent of police Anurag Singh said, “The matter is sub judice so we cannot comment on the issue. The report will be submitted to the court once it reaches us through proper channel.”

He said a report sought from a forensic lab in Agra was awaited. “We will submit it as soon as the court demands,” he said.

But police said the forensic report played no role as they were investigating murder and not cow slaughter.

“We have already filed the chargesheet against 18 people in this case. We have time and again clarified that it is a case of murder and assault not of cow slaughter,” Singh added.

Fifty-five-year-old Ikhlaq was lynched and his son Danish was critically injured on September 28 over allegations of slaughtering a cow and storing its meat for consumption at Bisada village of Dadri, 60 km from Delhi. The incident ignited a debate of intolerance across the country.

Police officers and paramilitary force continued to be deployed in Bisada after villagers, mostly women, protested against police and administration on Wednesday. They demanded the immediate release of all 18 accused arrested in the case.

“The situation is under control. The village has returned to normalcy since Wednesday’s protest. Schools are open and police is patrolling in the locality,” Singh added.