https://www.yahoo.com/news/proposed-tobacco-tax-increase-dies-203916429.html
140
14
LINCOLN, Neb. (AP) -- An attempt to more than triple Nebraska's cigarette tax was snuffed out Monday by a legislative committee.

Members of the Revenue Committee rejected the proposal during an executive session, with two senators voting for it and six against it.

The bill by Sen. Mike Gloor of Grand Island would have raised the tax from 64 cents to $2.14 per pack. The excise tax rate on other tobacco products would have risen from 20 percent to 31 percent.

Gloor said he was disappointed but not surprised that the committee rejected the bill. Gloor, who leaves office in January because of term limits, has introduced similar proposals twice before.

The $1.50-per-pack cigarette tax increase would have generated an estimated $120 million for the state. Of that total, $45 million would have gone to the state's property tax credit fund, which offsets local property taxes, and $45 million would have helped expand Nebraska's personal property tax exemptions. An additional $30 million would have paid for various public health programs.

Gloor said he believes a tobacco tax increase is inevitable, but future bills may distribute the revenue to other priorities.

"This was an opportunity to use a majority of those funds for property tax relief — a sizable amount of property tax relief," Gloor said. "When we increase the tobacco tax at some future date, who knows where those dollars may go?"

The bill drew praise from health officials but criticism from retailers, grocers and smokers. Cigar shop owners have said the tax increase would put them at a competitive disadvantage with online sellers, who buy in states without such taxes.

Gloor said the bill's defeat shows the tobacco industry's strength. Nebraska's cigarette excise tax ranked 39th last year among states and the District of Columbia, according to the nonprofit Kaiser Family Foundation. The national average was $1.59 per pack.

One of Nebraska's neighboring states, Missouri, had the nation's lowest rate at 17 cents per pack.

An Omaha think tank that lobbies against tax increases praised the committee's vote. Raising the tax would have driven many smokers to buy online, cross state lines to purchase cigarettes or roll their own, said Adam Weinberg, a spokesman for the Platte Institute for Economic Research. Weinberg said the resulting drop in sales would have made the tax less stable.

Gloor has said the measure would provide Nebraska smokers an incentive to quit and would prevent young people from starting. Smoking kills 2,200 Nebraska residents a year, he said, and price increases are the most effective way to reduce tobacco use.

__

The bill is LB1013