http://www.dailytimes.com.pk/national/31-Dec-2015/pakistan-contradicts-afghanistan-on-taliban-talks-venue
36
3
ISLAMABAD: The prime minister’s adviser on foreign affairs said on Wednesday that talks on how to restart a tentative peace dialogue with Afghanistan’s Taliban insurgents would be held in Islamabad next month, contradicting an Afghan statement that they would be in Kabul.

The confusion over the venue highlighted the fraught, multi-country process to coax the Taliban to the bargaining table and end more than 14 years of war since the US-led military invasion and occupation of Afghanistan. “Between January 10 and January 15, the first meeting will take place in Islamabad, not in Kabul,” Sartaj Aziz told a press conference. He said the meeting, involving officials from the United States, China, Pakistan and Afghanistan, had been decided on this month when Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif met Afghan President Ashraf Ghani in Islamabad at the Heart of Asia conference.

On Tuesday, an official in Ghani’s office said the talks would be held next week in Kabul, following the weekend visit of Chief of Army Staff General Raheel Sharif. The reason for the contradictory statements was not immediately clear and Afghan officials could not be reached. Neither side has said Taliban representatives themselves would attend. Diplomats have been working to revive the nascent peace process, which broke down in July following an initial round, after which news was leaked of the death of Taliban leader Mullah Mohammad Omar more than two years earlier.

The United States and China, which is planning to invest billions in Pakistan, have both pushed for peace talks. However, some Afghan officials have opposed Pakistan hosting the talks, accusing it of harbouring Taliban leaders and sponsoring the insurgency for its own regional strategy. Pakistan rejects the accusation and says it has also suffered heavily from terrorism. On Tuesday, at least 23 people were killed and 75 wounded when a suicide bomber attacked a government office in Mardan.

Separately, Aziz on Wednesday urged the need of following the Quaid's guiding principles to achieve success in every segment of life and economy. "Hard-work, honesty and democratic approach were the main three pillars of the personality of the founder of nation, and we can achieve success in every segment of life by following his golden principles," Sartaj Aziz said while speaking as chief guest at a function organised by Sir Syed Memorial Society to celebrate Quaid Day at Sir Syed Academy. Aziz said Quaid-I-Azam Muhammad Ali Jinnah worked hard as a student and achieved success by proving himself as the best lawyer of India.

He said it was Quaid's honesty, political wisdom and farsightedness that he did not compromise on principles and demanded separate electorate for the Muslims of India, which ultimately led to the creation of Pakistan due to thumping majority (90% seats) achieved by the All India Muslim League in 1946 elections. He further said that Quaid-I-Azam believed in a peaceful democratic struggle, as he did not converted the dream of Pakistan into reality through violence but with the peaceful democratic struggle and effective strategy.

He urged the youth to follow the footsteps of Quaid-I-Azam and his principles to achieve success in their lives. Aziz showered praise on the students of formal and non-formal educational institutions of Islamabad, who presented tribute to the founder of Pakistan with their exceptional performance on the occasion.