http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/how-you-young-people-vote-7670019
144
14
Voters are being encouraged with the offer of ice cream

Londoners are being encouraged to register to vote by being offered ICE CREAM.

Ben & Jerry’s has teamed up with Civil Rights campaign group HOPE not hate to encourage Londoners to sign up and make sure their voice is heard at the London Mayoral Election this May.

The campaign, called 'Give a Fudge' after the Chocolate Fudge Brownie ice cream, is part of the ‘Don’t Get Frozen Out’ campaign, launched to drive voter registration in the Capital at a time when one in five Londoners are not correctly registered to vote.

The campaign will be taking to the streets of London, to 'scoop up' voter registrations and dish out free scoops of the Give a Fudge ice cream before the deadline of Monday April 18.

To make sure the ‘Give a Fudge’ message gets to where it’s needed most, the tour will be visiting the London boroughs most affected by voter registration changes implemented in December 2015, leading to 329,000 Londoners falling off the electoral register.

Based on research from HOPE not hate, in Hackney, 14% (27,500 people) of residents dropped off the electoral register- the highest percentage of all the London boroughs.

Meanwhile in Lambeth, 11% of residents dropped off the register, and in Waltham Forest that figure was 7.5%.

'Give a Fudge' after the Chocolate Fudge Brownie ice cream

Voter registration drop-off is not exclusively a London issue, with cities across the UK being affected. Cambridge appears to be the most affected place outside London, having lost almost 20% of its electorate compared to May 2015, followed by Brighton which now has a 8.3% smaller register, Southampton which has seen a 7.5% decrease and Leeds has lost 5.5% of the register.

The tour announcement comes as Ben & Jerry’s & HOPE not hate launch new research, which reveals the current democratic process is failing to connect with young Londoners in particular across the capital.

Four in ten young Londoners say that being "confused about the process of registering to vote " is a key barrier to participating in democracy.

Ed Shepherd, Social Mission Manager at Ben & Jerry's said: "At Ben & Jerry’s we believe that democracy only works when it works for everyone.

"We need a democracy where all voices are heard, and we can all have an equal say over the decisions that affect our country. Research shows that voter registration drop-off is an issue that is affecting towns across the UK.

"That’s why we’re teaming up with HOPE not hate to launch the 'Don’t Get Frozen Out' tour, calling on people to register to vote and make sure their voice is counted in the May polls.”

The Don’t Get Frozen Out tour will be visiting the following locations:

● Hackney Town Hall on Friday 1st April (from 10am – 12pm and 2pm – 4pm)

● Windrush Square, Brixton on Saturday 2 April (from 12pm – 2pm)

● Clapton Park Estate – Pedro Youth Club, Hackney on Friday 8 April (from 2pm – 4pm)

● Noel Park estate, South Tottenham on Saturday 9 April (from 2pm – 4pm).

For more information on the ‘Don’t Get Frozen Out’ tour, visit http://www.benjerry.co.uk/frozenout