https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2016/04/01/heres-how-north-dakotas-republican-convention-works/
141
14
FARGO, N.D. – John Trandem, the chairman of the credentials committee for this weekend’s state Republican convention, was halfway through his umpteenth explanation of the rules when a wide-eyed voter interrupted him.

“Can I be a delegate if I showed up today?” she asked.

“No, you had to have your application in by Monday,” Trandem said.

“Oh, shoot,” replied the would-be delegate, resuming her walk through the Ramada Plaza Fargo.

Sen. Ted Cruz speaks with supporters Friday in Harrisburg, Pa. He is expected to make a campaign stop Saturday in Fargo, N.D. (Charles Mostoller/Reuters)

In the months since this state scrapped its “preference vote” – a caucus-style election that decided headlines, but not delegates – the method by which North Dakota Republicans will assign their 28 delegates to the national convention didn’t get much attention. No Republican candidate has campaigned here, although Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Tex.) is scheduled to land here Saturday afternoon, speak, then zoom back to Wisconsin.

The North Dakota delegate fight is actually quite simple, and old-fashioned. And Republicans here hope that it makes the state relevant from now until the party arrives for the convention in Cleveland.

Who gets to be a delegate? Any one of the 105 Republicans who applied for the 25 available delegate slots, plus the state party chairman and two Republican national committee members.

The 105, seeming split evenly between party stalwarts and newcomers, will appear on a list reviewed by the Permanent Committee on Organization, composed of 11 party leaders. On Friday and Saturday, the party leaders will review the names against a list of suggested criteria, weighted by the following proportions, to determine the 25 nominees to be delegates:

40% History of work for the Republican Party

25% History of monetary contributions to the North Dakota Republican Party

10% History of federal or statewide candidacy

10% History of legislative candidacy

10% Never attended a national convention

5% Other meaningful criteria

What happens next? On Saturday, the Permanent Committee will reveal its 25 nominated delegates. On Sunday, the nearly 2,000 “voting attendees” who have registered for the convention itself will vote on the delegates. They will be free to confirm the 25 or to nominate one of the 80 candidates passed over by the committee.

“This is North Dakota, so there are going to be people who vote against the 25 delegates just because,” said Trandem. “The Cruz and Trump people will probably be circulating lists of the people they prefer, too.”

Who has the advantage? Nobody claims to know. While the standards for delegate selection seem to favor more traditional, organized Republican campaigns – and to cut toward Cruz – the Texan has not locked this state down.

“Before he dropped out, Ben Carson was probably the most popular candidate in the state,” said Rep. Kevin Cramer (R-N.D.), the state’s sole congressman, who is not running for a delegate slot. “I still have my Carson bumper sticker on my car.”

That matters, because Carson will spent almost 24 hours in Fargo lobbying for Trump. He’s likely to meet delegate candidates in Trump’s Ramada hospitality suite. (Each candidate has a similar suite.) And opinions differ on whether Trump lost ground this week after a widely covered gaffe on abortion.

“This is a very, very pro-life state,” explained RNC committeeman Curly Hoagland.

At the same time, North Dakota defeated a 2014 ballot measure that would have defined life as starting legally at conception, and Cramer didn’t see damage from Trump’s tossing and turning over whether women should be “punished” for abortions. When Cramer held a March straw poll for Republican voters, Trump won it easily; the combined vote for Trump and Carson topped 50 percent.

The problem for Trump was that he didn’t have a primary to win.

“The straw poll was more reflective of the people who aren’t here,” Cramer said. “That’s one of my irritations with all this. The people who don’t have the means, or time, or the circumstances to stay here and pay for a hotel don’t get a vote.”

Seriously, does somebody win or something? Not really. While one campaign may come out of Fargo able to point to an advantage in delegates – having gotten one to 25 known allies elected – the delegates will technically be bound to no one. They can keep their opinions quiet and spend three months being plied by candidates.

“I’m not expecting to walk away with any signed, notarized agreements of support,” said Gordon Humphrey, the former senator from New Hampshire dispatched to Fargo by John Kasich's campaign to lobby delegates. “I want to meet them as human beings and stay in touch. What this whole process reminds me of is the United States Senate, where you are constantly building relationships. People here know that Cleveland is going to be wide open.”