http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3390705/Transgender-rapist-sent-male-prison-GUILTY-raping-teenage-girl-man.html
143
14
Davina Ayrton, pictured, was convicted of rape at Portsmouth Crown Court and remanded in a male jail

A transgender rapist has been sent to a male prison after she was found guilty of raping a 'vulnerable' schoolgirl while still a man.

Davina Ayrton, 34, was convicted of the sexual attack on the 15-year-old in the autumn of 2004, following a week-long trial at Portsmouth Crown Court.

Ayrton, who has learning difficulties, has been remanded into custody for her own safety and Judge Ian Pearson said it was likely she would be held at the male prison in Winchester, Hampshire, until her sentencing on March 4.

The court also heard how Ayrton had tried to commit suicide last summer.

Judge Pearson said: 'I am going to have to remand in custody, if I were to release on bail there are substantial grounds to believe she would be a risk to herself and a risk of failing to attend for whatever reason.

'I will therefore have to remand in custody, it will have to be a male prison in Winchester but it will be an issue for the prison service.'

Thanking the jury, the judge added: 'It's been a slightly unusual case and it's not been an easy case.'

A court officer said that the prison had been informed and that protocols would be put in place for Ayrton's detention.

Ayrton told the court in her evidence that she had not undergone any physical modifications or taken any medication as part of her gender swap.

The trial heard that she had met up with her victim, who had run away from home, and two friends and had gone drinking in a garage which had a sofa and chairs in it.

They had both been drinking alcohol and the victim said Ayrton held one of her arms while the other was trapped against the back of the sofa

The teen described how she screamed and shouted at Ayrton, who was 23 and called David at the time, to stop but failed to wake up her friend and her boyfriend who were sleeping nearby.

A video played to the jury showed the victim explaining how she shouted at and tried to slap Ayrton, who also 'slobbered on her face' when she tried to kiss her.

Although she denied raping the teenager, Ayrton admitted that the teen and her friends were in the garage with her.

She said she had drunk four cans of Foster's lager but had not had any vodka because she was on benefits at the time and 'didn't have enough money.'

The victim, who is from Portsmouth and cannot be named for legal reasons, said in footage played in court: 'I know it was over quickly but it felt like it was forever.

'He just lay on top of me, it must have been seconds but it felt like it was minutes. He just sat up as if it was nothing.'

Helpless: Ayrton's victim cried out for help but could not alert her friends to the vile attack she was enduring

She added that she couldn't breathe when Ayrton tried to kiss her.

She said: 'I'm sure there was a point I went to slap him but I couldn't move my arm.I said get off me. I said it three or four times. It was more his weight on me at that point.

'That's when he was kissing my face, slobbering on my face. I couldn't breathe.'

She also said Ayrton had medium-length greasy hair at the time of the attack. After the rape, the victim did not want to move and only told a handful of people about it.

A friend of the victim told the court she was 'vulnerable' at the time of the attack.

The court was also told that Ayrton, who has a son, was convicted of possessing indecent images of children at Bournemouth Crown Court in January 2014.

When her defence barrister Ann-Marie Talbot asked her why she had entered guilty pleas to these charges, she replied: 'Because I was guilty of them.'

It was also heard that Ayrton, who has learning difficulties, confessed her crime to a support worker - something which she denied.

The court heard how Ayrton, pictured, who has a son, had admitted possession of indecent images of children

The prosecution was brought after a care worker reported that Ayrton had confessed to the rape in January 2014 and also told her that she was a 'paedophile' and that she had 'always known there was something wrong' and that she needed 'help'.

Ms Talbot declined to comment on her client's remand status after the hearing.

Ayrton's move will surely be heavily scrutinised by the Prison Service after two trans inmates died in male jails last year.

Vikki Thompson, 21, died in custody on November 13 at Armley jail in Leeds while awaiting sentence for robbery.

An inquest into her death was opened at Wakefield Coroners Court at which it was heard that jail staff had been checking on her every hour.

When she was looked in on at 7pm, Vikki was seen lying on her bed, giving no cause for concern.

Trans-inmate Joanna Latham was found dead in Woodhill Prison and an investigation has since been launched

However, at a later check at 8.10pm she could not be seen - so staff went into her cell. Emergency services were called and she was pronounced dead 38 minutes later.

The inquest also heard that she was taunted by other male inmates for wanting to live her life as a woman.

She told friends she would take her own life unless she was moved, and although she was seen as an 'at risk' in mate by staff, she was not moved.

The tragic incident came just weeks before Joanna Latham became the second inmate to die in a male jail in December last year.

Staff and paramedics attempted to resuscitate Miss Latham but she died at the scene inside Woodhill Prison, Milton Keynes.

Transferred: Trans inmate Tara Hudson, pictured, was moved to a female jail after thousands signed a petition

A special investigation has since been launched by the independent Prisons and Probation Ombudsman.

An inmate who has enjoyed success with a plight to be moved from an all-male prison to a female jail is Tara Hudson, 26, from Bath.

Magistrates sent the young woman – who admitted a bar assault - to a male prison to serve a 12-week sentence because her passport says she is still legally a man.