http://www.news.com.au/national/western-australia/wa-bushfires-yarloop-and-cookenup-residents-furious-at-looting-reports-during-evacuation/news-story/a50fc0cc646324b1ddc06b90f874ddbc
141
14
TREVOR PADDENBURG PerthNow

RESIDENTS who have fled a bushfire in the South West are furious at reports of looting in the towns of Yarloop and Cookenup, south of Perth.

Volunteer firefighters and staff from the Cookenup general store have told of youths on trail bikes using the confusion of the fire to steal from homes that have been evacuated.

“Kids on bikes are looting the town,” said Cookenup homeowner Len Penrose, 54.

“I left my front door unlocked when I got out with my step daughter and I hope the little buggers haven’t been to my place.”

Fellow Cookenup resident Janelle Ryan said volunteer firefighters had also told her about the looting.

“They are low lying scum buckets,” she said of the thieves.

“If you can steal from someone who has fled a bushfire, you’re nothing but a low lying scum bucket.

“Anybody who loots in a crisis situation should be put in a pine box, covered in concrete and taken out to the ocean.”

Authorities said it was too early to confirm is looting had taken place but an assessment was being carried out.

It comes as helicopters, carrying residents from Waroona and Yarloop who stayed to battle the fire, are expected to land around midday at the Australind evacuation centre, which has been set up at the Leschenault Leisure Centre.

Waroona residents await news on fire damage 3:03 Waroona has been a town on edge today with hundreds of residents bracing for news of the damage and many still can't go back to their homes. Courtesy: Nine News

A massive pall of smoke has made the skies dark over Australind and Bunbury, with ash raining down.

Harvey residents Kath and George, who did not want their surname published, said they fled their home and are staying at the evacuation centre in their caravan.

“It was all black. Black clouds and black smoke and black skies,” Kath said of Harvey when she fled late on Thursday.

Myalup couple Karen and Brian Raynor said they fled their home at 3am Friday and stopped at a 24-hour Kmart at Eaton to buy tents and supplies.

The couple, their daughter Jenna Raynor and her partner Scott Shaw have set up two tents on the grass near the evacuation centre to sleep in.

“We could have no home at all or it might be standing as if nothing has happened. It’s like a roll of the dice by someone up there, and either you still have a house or you don’t,” said Mr Raynor.

Meanwhile, dozens of people are arriving with bags full of food and clothing to donate to those who have lost everything or are stuck at the evacuation centre.

Australind resident Darren Garbutt, 42, was ferrying evacuees to their relatives or friends homes and arrived with bags of toys and blankets.

“You’ve got to do what you can. Every little bit helps,” he said.