http://www.thedailystar.net/country/voting-ends-amid-violence-ballot-stuffing-boycott-1234480
141
14
The sixth and final phase of election to 698 union parishads ended yesterday amid sporadic violence and irregularities

In Chittagong, incidents of arson, vandalism, clashes and chases and counter-chases marked the union parishad (UP) polls in Anwara upazila of Chittagong yesterday.

Apart from temporary suspension of voting in a few centres, the authorities had to cancel voting at one centre due to various reasons, including 'tense situation' among the supporters of the rival candidates.

Voting was cancelled at Talsara Government Primary School centre under Paraikoura union as ballot papers were found outside the centre, said Mohammad Saiful Islam, Anwara Upazila Nirbahi Officer (UNO).

Except for a few stray incidents of violence in different areas of the upazila, the election was by and large peaceful, he claimed.

In Patiya upazila, Haji Shamsul Alam , BNP-nominated chairman candidate in Shobhandandi union, boycotted the election, alleging that the ruling party men ousted his agents from the polling centres.

He announced his withdrawal from the election race at a press conference it Hawakhana area of the union.

“They (AL men) ousted my agents from the centres and stamped the ballot papers and stuffed them into ballot boxes. No voter was allowed to enter the centers at that time” he alleged.

Mohammad Abul Hashem, UNO of Patiya, however, said no incidents of vote snatching and capturing polling centres took place in the union.

In Mymensingh, polling at Chaponhala Government Primary School Centre in Kanihari union of Trishal upazila was postponed as the supporters of AL-nominated chairman candidate allegedly snatched away six boxes with ballots from the centre around 10:45am.

Police arrested four people for their involvement in the incident, but they could not recover the ballot boxes as of 6:00pm. Following the incident, the authorities concerned postponed voting at the centre.

At least 10 people, including a policeman, were injured when the supporters of two member candidates locked in a clash at Patlashi Government Primary School Centre in Niguari Union of Gafargaon upazila around 11:00am.

Police fired around 50 rounds of bullets to bring the situation under control, said Md Chand Miah, officer-in-charge of Pagla Police Station in Gafargaon. The returning officer postponed the voting at the centre, the OC said.

In Bogra, four candidates for the chairman post of Balua Union Parishad under Sonatola upazila of the district boycotted yesterday, alleging vote rigging and intimidation of voters.

Abdul Mannan, one of the candidates, said they have informed the upazila administration and local journalists about their withdrawal from the election race.

Contacted, BNP-nominated chairman aspirant Musfiqur Rahman Shiju said he boycotted the election as the ruling party men prevented his agents from entering the centres.

Contacted, Ruhul Amin, AL-nominated chairman candidate, refuted the allegations.

In Jessore, voting in 11 unions in Chaugachha upazila and 10 unions in Sharsha upazila was marred by widespread violence.

Tareq Ahammed, Jessore district election officer, said two people were wounded in a clash at a polling station in Sharsha upazila. "Police were compelled to fire blank shots to disperse the clashing groups at a centre in Chaugachha upazila," he added.

In Tangail, at least seven people were injured, three of them seriously, in a clash between Awami League (AL) and BNP men at Jamuria union in Ghatail upazila of the district yesterday.

Witnesses said the supporters of AL-nominated chairman candidate Shahidul Islam Khan and BNP-nominated candidate Ekhlash Hossain Shamim locked in a clash at Sadhurpara Gologanda centre in the morning, leaving seven people from both sides injured.

In Pabna, elections to 10 union parishads (UP) in Pabna Sadar upazila and six UPs in Chatmohar upazila were held amidst irregularities and vote rigging yesterday.

Four chairman aspirants withdrew from the polls race, alleging irregularities and vote rigging in Ataikula union two hours after voting started, while most of the candidates in other unions alleged that the AL men forced them to cast votes for boat inside the polling centres.

BNP-nominated chairman aspirant Md Jahangir Alam, AL rebel Shamsul Alam Monju Master, and independent candidates Kamal Uddin and Shawkat Hossain in Ataikula union rejected the polls in the morning.

In Natore, Awami League (AL) leaders and activists stamped ballot papers on the boat symbol in presence of AL-nominated chairman candidate Mostafizur Rahman at Ranigram Government Primary School polling centre under Mushinda union of Gurudaspur upazila of the district at around 3:00pm.