http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/jeremy-corbyns-team-rejects-call-9031006
144
14
Jeremy Corbyn's spokesperson hinted there should be protests outside the US embassy instead

Jeremy Corbyn's spokesperson today rejected calls for protests outside the Russian Embassy, after suggestions they deliberately targeted civilian aid convoys and hospitals in Syria.

He said outrage over Russian air strikes in Aleppo 'divert attention' away from casualties caused by bombing raids by the US and others.

And he hinted there should be protests against the US instead of Russia.

Brendan Cox, the widower of Jo Cox who was co-chair of the Parliamentary Friends of Syria group tweeted in response: "This isn't just wrong, it's absolutely disgraceful."

This isn't just wrong, it's absolutely disgraceful. https://t.co/Z8RwBojwEi — Brendan Cox (@MrBrendanCox) October 12, 2016

Mr Corbyn sparked anger on Monday when he failed to condemn Russian use of bunker-buster and cluster bombs on a Hospital as evidence of war crimes.

Earlier, a spokesperson for the Stop The War coalition, of whom Mr Corbyn is a former chair, said protesting outside Russia's embassy would increase "hysteria and jingoism" that is being "whipped up" against Vladimir Putin's state.

Writing in the Mirror on Monday, senior Tory Andrew Mitchell compared Russia's actions in Syria to the bombing raids the Nazi regime launched on Guernica in the 1930s.

He accused Vladimir Putin of "shredding" international law with the strikes, which he said were clear evidence war crimes had been committed.

But today, Jeremy Corbyn 's spokesman said the priority “should be holding talks inside the Russian Embassy rather than demonstrations outside”.

Getty Vladimir Putin is accused of authorising war crimes

He told reporters: “Obviously people are entitled and at complete liberty to demonstrates outside not only the Russian Embassy but all the other embassies of those participating, intervening powers”.

He added: “Jeremy has condemned the Russian intervention and the Russian bombing as he has condemned the intervention of all outside powers in the Syrian civil war.

'What Jeremy has emphasised is the importance of a negotiated political settlement and everything being focused on that.”

Asked if the US was one of those intervening powers, the spokesman replied: “Obviously.”

Responding to the spokesperson's comments, Lib Dem leader Tim Farron tweeted: "Seems to see an equivalence between Putin and Obama.

"Does Jeremy agree or is he going to sack his spokesman?"

Seems to see an equivalence between Putin and Obama. Does Jeremy agree or is he going to sack his spokesman? https://t.co/QFKUkMYguP — Tim Farron (@timfarron) October 12, 2016

Denying it was “a question of moral equivalence”, he added: “The focus on Russian atrocities or Syrian Army atrocities - which is absolutely correct – I think sometimes diverts attention from other atrocities that are taking place.

“Independent assessments are that there have been very large scale civilian casualties as a result of the US-led coalition bombing.

Video loading Watch next Watch this video again Watch Next Click to play Tap to play The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

“There are several cases of large numbers of civilian deaths in single attacks and there hasn't been so much attention on those atrocities or those casualties.

“Both the United States and British governments have been reluctant to accept any independent assessments of what has taken place as a result of those campaigns.”

The “intervention of foreign powers in the conflict has no doubt escalated and fuelled it throughout”, said the spokesman.

And he refused to say whether Mr Corbyn would join any demonstration outside the Russian Embassy in the same way he has joined numerous anti-war protests during his lifelong campaigning.

“People are free to protest outside the intervening powers' embassies – and there are a number of them, not just the United States and Russia,” said the spokesman.

“There are multiple foreign interventions in the Syrian civil war.”

The Stop the War Coalition claimed the Government is fuelling anti-Russian sentiment in an attempt to "justify" an escalation of British military intervention.

Google The Russian Embassy in London

Jack Taylor/Getty Images

Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson called directly on the campaign group yesterday to stage embassy protests over the continued attacks by Russian warplanes on the stricken city of Aleppo.

But Stop the War vice chairman Chris Nineham said the organisation would not stage any demonstrations.

"The reason for that is our focus is on what our Government is doing," he told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme.

"There's a very good reason for this, because we can make a difference to what Britain does, we can make a difference to what our allies do to a certain extent and we have done.

Getty Images

"But, if we have a protest outside the Russian embassy it wouldn't make a blind bit of difference as to what Putin does because we are in Britain and were are in the West.

"And, not only that - a protest outside the Russian embassy would actually contribute to increasing the hysteria and the jingoism that is being whipped up at the moment against Russia."

He added: "What we are saying is there is a hysteria which is being organised by politicians and the media against Russia to see Russia as the only problem in Syria."

Mr Nineham said the Foreign Secretary's calls for demonstrations were "characteristically trivialising".