http://www.ibtimes.com.au/man-tries-smuggle-child-uk-out-compassion-faces-jail-sentence-1498347
141
14
Christian Syrian refugee Ghassan Aleid displays his Syrian passport at a terminal at the Charles-de-Gaulle Airport in Roissy, France, October 2, 2015. After the efforts of the mayor of Le Mans and a family member, a doctor residing in Le Mans, France accorded travel visas, requested a year ago, for the family who fled the conflict in Syria.

Christian Syrian refugee Ghassan Aleid displays his Syrian passport at a terminal at the Charles-de-Gaulle Airport in Roissy, France, October 2, 2015. After the efforts of the mayor of Le Mans and a family member, a doctor residing in Le Mans, France accorded travel visas, requested a year ago, for the family who fled the conflict in Syria. Reuters/Stephane Mahe

A man is facing up to five years in jail after he attempted to smuggle a child from a refugee camp near Calais. Furthermore, more are calling desperately for the turnover of things at one of France’s largest refugee camps as the police continue to block aid.

Forty nine-year-old Rob Lawrie will face trial in France next week after he was found trying to smuggle a four-year-old Afghan migrant. Lawrie hid the young girl in his van near the refugee camp, according to ABC. According to the former soldier, his acts were out of compassion for the girl and her family. A footage of Lawrie playing with the child in the French refugee camp can also be found.

"I didn't know what difference I could make, I just knew I had to, it's something inside. I just knew I had to get down to Europe, just do something,” explained Lawrie. "She's a special little girl and she almost became a representative of child refugees."

"We cannot help everyone, but everyone can help someone and she had become my someone," he added.

The refugee camp has been called the Calais "jungle." As such, the camp has no fixed location while it housed refugees trying to get inside United Kingdom.

An online petition has already been put up in support of Lawrie's act. Jim Innes, a charity worker, started the petition even without meeting Lawrie yet. So far, the petition already has 48,000 signatures requesting British Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond to pardon Lawrie.

In light of the Calais camp, new reports indicate that conditions are rapidly deteriorating in another French refugee camp. Constant heavy rains have affected the camp specifically the one in Grande-Synthe near Dunkirk. Volunteers note that local officials still refuse to allow workers to rebuild the camp, according to The Independent. Towards the end of December last year, Dunkirk authorities passed a by-law stipulating that only food and clothing carried by hand can be allowed as aid.

