http://www.india.com/news/india/air-india-flight-from-bengalore-to-delhi-delayed-by-4-hours-passengers-protest-at-airport-846052/
141
14
Bengaluru, January 8: The Air India flight from Bangalore to Delhi has been reportedly delayed for more than four hours, leading to a huge ruckus at the Kempegowda International airport. The passengers who are in large number stranded at the airport had started protesting against the authorities.

According to reports, the Air India flight was supposed to carry around 240 passengers was scheduled at around 1 pm on Friday from Bangalore to Delhi. However the reason behind delay is said to be heavy fog which is present at the Delhi airport.

In last few tweets posted by Air India officials mentioned about the low visibility in the national capital which had led to the cancellation of some flights and delay of more than four in last 24 hours. Read Also: (Air India flight halted at Amritsar airport after stray dog spotted on runway)

Early reports suggest that the passengers who are effected in large numbers were asked to wait near the waiting area of Kempegowda International airport.

Air India, a government owned organisation is always in news for wrong reason. Last week an Air India plane headed towards London from Mumbai was forced to return mid-way after a rat was spotted on board.

The Air India flight AI-131 was flying over Tehran when a passenger saw a rat running around the cabin. The pilot followed the protocol and turned the plane back to Mumbai as a “precautionary measures”. The rat could have gnawed through any electrical wiring or aircraft controls.

Rats on planes are reported occasionally and are thought to enter the aircraft most frequently through catering deliveries.

In another incident an Air India flight was re-scheduled after a stray dog was spotted at the Amritsar airport last week.

The Air India flight from Bangalore to Delhi has been reportedly delayed for more than four hours, leading to a huge ruckus at the Kempegowda International airport. The passengers who are in large number stranded at the airport had started protesting against the authorities.

According to reports, the Air India flight was supposed to carry around 240 passengers was scheduled at around 1pm on Friday from Bengaluru to Delhi. However the reason behind delay is said to be heavy fog which is present at the Delhi airport.

In last few tweets posted by Air India officials mentioned about the low visibility in the national capital which had led to the cancellation of some flights and delay of more than four in last 24 hours.

Early reports suggest that the passengers who are effected in large numbers were asked to wait near the waiting area of Kempegowda International airport.

Air India, a government owned organisation is always in news for wrong reason. Last week an Air India plane headed towards London from Mumbai was forced to return mid-way after a rat was spotted on board.

The Air India flight AI-131 was flying over Tehran when a passenger saw a rat running around the cabin. The pilot followed the protocol and turned the plane back to Mumbai as a “precautionary measures”. The rat could have gnawed through any electrical wiring or aircraft controls.

Rats on planes are reported occasionally and are thought to enter the aircraft most frequently through catering deliveries. In another incident an Air India flight was re-scheduled after a stray dog was spotted at the Amritsar airport last week.