http://www.business-standard.com/article/pti-stories/motorbikes-of-madhesi-leaders-torched-in-nepal-116010801142_1.html
141
14
Motorbikes of Madhesi leaders torched in Nepal

Hit by the four-month-long Madhesi agitation and border blockade, angry businessmen in a major city in southern Nepal bordering India have torched motorbikes of the protesting leaders. The businessmen torched two motorbikes belonging to Madhesi leaders in Janakpur in Dhanusha district yesterday. In retaliation, the United Democratic Madhesi Front (UDMF) supporters took to the streets and enforced a shutdown in the area today. The front also enforced shutdown of schools, colleges and market places. A meeting of the party yesterday declared senior vice-chairman of Federation of Nepalese Chamber of Commerce and Industries Janakpur chapter Bijay Kumar Shah, and two businessmen, as anti-Madhesis and decided to close their shops and business establishments. The local traders protested after some demonstrators participating in a rally vandalised a cloth shop in Janakpur. Life in the southern Nepal plains have been seriously affected by the protests by Indian-origin Madhesis against the ...

Hit by the four-month-long Madhesi agitation and border blockade, angry businessmen in a major city in southern bordering have torched motorbikes of the protesting leaders.



The businessmen torched two motorbikes belonging to Madhesi leaders in Janakpur in Dhanusha district yesterday. In retaliation, the United Democratic Madhesi Front (UDMF) supporters took to the streets and enforced a shutdown in the area today.



The front also enforced shutdown of schools, colleges and market places.



A meeting of the party yesterday declared senior vice-chairman of Federation of Nepalese Chamber of Commerce and Industries Janakpur chapter Bijay Kumar Shah, and two businessmen, as anti-Madhesis and decided to close their shops and business establishments.



The local traders protested after some demonstrators participating in a rally vandalised a cloth shop in Janakpur.



Life in the southern plains have been seriously affected by the protests by Indian-origin Madhesis against the country's new Constitution that was adopted by the Constituent Assembly on September 20.



Madhesis, who share strong cultural and family bonds with Indians, demand a re-demarcation of provinces, fixing of electoral constituencies on the basis of population and proportional representation.



So far, over 50 people have died during the Madhesi-Tharu agitation launched by the marginalised groups of the country.

Press Trust of India