http://www.dailynews.lk/?q=2016/01/09/local/dlf-slmp-accuse-pm-trying-bring-oppressive-constitution
141
14
The Democratic Left Front (DLF) and the Sri Lanka Mahajana Pakshaya (SLMP) in a joint statement issued yesterday, said Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe seems to be hastily trying to bring in an oppressive and dictatorial Constitution going beyond J.R. Jayewardene's 1978 draconian Constitution, to continue a more liberalised economic system which would further suppress the people.

The statement signed by Vasudeva Nanayakkara and Asanka Navaratne, said the Prime Minister's intention is not to strengthen Parliamentary democracy, but create an Executive Prime Minister and transform Sri Lanka into a financial lair of imperialist forces by privatising all public property.

The statement said the leadership of this process is borne by a group led by the Ranil, Chandrika, Mangala clique which is an extremist rightist group. They are being assisted by foreign agents and conspirators dependent on funds provided by certain foreign embassies.

"The Budget proposals introduced by the Finance Minister according to the liberal socio economic programme introduced in Parliament by the Prime Minister, primed several relief and welfare measures enjoyed by the people. When bank employees, farmers, the medical fraternity and students protested against these measures, the government pretended to have withdrawn these measures temporarily. Now the government was trying to hastily bring in a new Constitution in order to create a machinery necessary to implement those very same oppressive measures in the budget."

The statement said the war had ended during the Mahinda Rajapaksa administration and the unitary framework, including the provincial council system was strengthened.

"Thereafter, Mahinda Rajapaksa suppressed people's democratic rights by bringing in the 18th Amendment which further strengthened the Executive Presidency. He killed time without introducing the democratic process to Parliament through an electorate level parliamentary election. Therefore, notwithstanding the rightist danger, people tried to get these tasks accomplished through Maithripala Sirisena by electing him President.

"Therefore the proposed new Constitution should be framed as a further step to the 1972 Constitution, rather than in a manner that would please imperialist forces.

"Therefore, no room should be allowed to change the Constitution in a manner that would flout its fundamental provisions. The statement said the Democratic Left Front and the SLMP request all political party leaders and people organisations to rally round with farmers and workers for a national movement to oppose this anti people programme of the government which aims to subvert and bury the social welfare system of government."