http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/kim-jong-un-celebrates-birthday-7137748
141
14
Kim Jong-un celebrates his birthday today as the world is still reeling from North Korea's claims it has successfully tested a hydrogen nuclear bomb.

The country's leader is believed to turn 33, although his exact year of birth is not known.

Conflicting sources say Kim was born in 1982, 1983 or 1984 , meaning he may have turned 32, 33 or 34 today.

The tyrant's celebration comes just days after he boasted that his country had successfully conducted a test of a its first hydrogen nuclear bomb yesterday.

The announcement was made on North Korean state TV after a 5.1 magnitude earthquake was detected near its known nuclear test site on Wednesday.

Video loading Watch next Watch this video again Watch Next Click to play Tap to play The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

The dictator's actions were widely condemned around the world and brought calls for more sanctions on North Korea.

But neighbouring rival South Korea has cast doubt on the North's nuclear weapon claims.

The South defence ministry does not believe the North's alleged test of an enhanced nuclear fission device was successful, the Yonhap news agency reported.

Getty Approval: Kim Jong-un signs papers authorising the nuclear test

In a mark of protest against the test, South Korea will limit entry to the Kaesong industrial complex jointly operated with North Korea to minimal production staff, said an official from Seoul's Unification Ministry.

Getty Cloud: The nuclear test was broadcast on state TV

Yonhap also said new initiatives on cooperation with North Korea will be pushed back.

South Korea's meteorological agency said separately that it had not detected any radiation after North Korea said it successfully conducted the test.

Getty Cheers: North Korean people celebrate the success of the first 'hydrogen bomb test'

READ MORE : North Korea 'tests hydrogen bomb successfully' as earthquake detected around site

The nuclear test is the fourth by the isolated country, which is under US and UN sanctions for its nuclear and missile programmes.

Reuters

The country added that it would continue to strengthen its nuclear programme in order to protect itself against the hostile policies of the United States.

In a statement, North Korea's state news agency said it will not give up its nuclear programme as long as the United States maintained what it called "its stance of aggression".

Video loading Watch next Watch this video again Watch Next Click to play Tap to play The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

Read more: Kim Jong-un says he is ready for WAR if North Korea is provoked by 'invasive' outsiders

The test follows leader Kim Jong-un's claims last month that the country was in possession of its first H-bomb.

He said his late father and former leader Kim Jong-Il, "turned the DPRK into a powerful nuclear weapons state ready to detonate a self-reliant A-bomb and H-bomb to reliably defend its sovereignty and the dignity of the nation."

UK Defence Secretary Philip Hammond took to Twitter to condemn the actions of North Korea.

He wrote: "If North Korean H-bomb test reports are true, it is a grave breach of #UNSC resolutions & a provocation which I condemn without reservation."

If North Korean H-bomb test reports are true, it is a grave breach of #UNSC resolutions & a provocation which I condemn without reservation — Philip Hammond (@PHammondMP) January 6, 2016

Read more: Kim Jong-un's 'closest comrade' killed in car crash sparking fears for relations between North and South Korea

The development marks a major advance in North Korea's nuclear weapons capabilities.

North Korea previously carried out tests on nuclear devices in 2006, 2009 and 2013.

Video loading Click to play Tap to play The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video