http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/FTII-Row-Chauhan-takes-charge-students-detained/articleshow/50496759.cms
141
14
After a simmering calm of 70 days, violence revisited the gates and campus of the Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) as the police stretched themselves, wielding their lathis to contain students reiterating their protest against the political appointments made to the premier institute's society and governing council.At the behest of the institute's administration, the campus was swarming with the men in khaki. If this was not enough, the management sought to drown out the voice of dissent, calling in a dhol-tasha troupe, apparently to welcome the contentious society and governing council members.All hell broke loose, just as Gajendra Chauhan (whose appointment as chairman of the institute's governing council is being protested by the students since last June with a 139-day strike) was headed to the film school. Policemen at the gates, unable to coax the sloganeering students to clear the way, decided to resort to brute force. About 23 of the students were bundled into the waiting police vans and taken away to Shivajinagar police station, where they were detained through the day until the scheduled meeting of the FTII society and governing council were completed. "Since they were not listening, we had to detain a few students," said deputy commissioner of police (Zone-I), Tushar Doshi , who was at the campus to oversee the police action."We were protesting peacefully at the main gate and were registering our disagreement with the appointments in a democratic manner. Despite this, the cops started beating us with their batons, manhandling and detaining us," pointed out Shini JK, one of the detainees. "It is a curfew like situation on the campus. We are not even allowed to go to our library," noted Ranjit Nair, a student leader.Once they arrived on campus and after the initial formalities were out of the way, Chauhan and other society members (including the other appointees marked for their political affiliation, namely, Anagha Ghaisas, Narendra Pathak and Sailesh Gupta) got down to business. The group comprised of film critic Bhawana Somaaya, theatre director Urmil Kumar Thapaliyal, director Rajkumar Hirani, Assamese actor-director Pranjal Saikia and actors Satish Shah and Rahul Solapurkar.Government officials present included additional secretary and financial advisor (for Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting) Dr Subhash Sharma, joint secretary (Films), Sanjay Murthy, officer on special duty Chaitanya Prasad, director general of Films Division Mukesh Sharma, CEO Children's Film Society Shravan Kuma, director of Satyajit Raj Film and Television Institute Sanjay Pattanayak and FTII director, Prashant Patrabe.First day at work involved passing the annual reports and statements of accounts of the institute for 2013-'14 and 2014-'15. The society also elected B P Singh, the maker of TV serial, 'CID', as its vice president and also the vice chairman of the governing council. He will also helm the academic council and will effectively be the man calling the shots going forward.The group met representatives of the FTII Staff Association as well as the Teachers' Association. "We have been given hope by the chairman that he will bat for our demands for pension," said a member of the staff association who did not wish to be named. Sandeep Chatterjee, professor of the direction department said, "We had a positive discussion and reiterated our demand to withdraw cases against the students to restore normalcy on campus."