http://www.business-standard.com/article/pti-stories/bms-to-protest-against-anti-worker-policies-on-feb-24-116020700585_1.html
141
14
BMS to protest against 'anti-worker' policies on Feb 24

RSS-backed Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) today said it will hold demonstration at all district headquarters on February 24 to protest against government's "anti-worker" policies and changes in laws through labour reforms. "BMS National Executive has decided to hold demonstration at all district headquarters on February 24 to press government to implement agreed demands and stop labour reforms," BMS General Secretary Virjesh Upadhyay told PTI. The decision was taken in an executive committee meeting in Hyderabad today. Last month, 11 central trade unions, including BJP-backed Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), had decided to go on a strike on March 10, to protest against central as well as some state government's "anti-worker" policies and changes in laws through labour reforms. The unions had also decided to organise a massive National Convention of Workers in Talkatora Stadium, New Delhi in the last week of March, 2016 to decide about the next course of united action programme.

RSS-backed Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) today said it will hold demonstration at all district headquarters on February 24 to protest against government's "anti-worker" policies and changes in laws through labour reforms.



" National Executive has decided to hold demonstration at all district headquarters on February 24 to press government to implement agreed demands and stop labour reforms," General Secretary Virjesh Upadhyay told PTI.



The decision was taken in an executive committee meeting in today.



Last month, 11 central trade unions, including BJP-backed Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), had decided to go on a strike on March 10, to protest against central as well as some state government's "anti-worker" policies and changes in laws through labour reforms.



The unions had also decided to organise a massive National Convention of Workers in Talkatora Stadium, in the last week of March, 2016 to decide about the next course of united action programme.

Press Trust of India