http://www.independent.co.uk/voices/junior-doctors-strike-the-government-has-gone-too-far-in-its-fight-with-the-bma-a6801606.html
141
14
NHS managers will need to be careful as they deal with the junior doctors dispute, which will come to a head on Tuesday when strike action is expected. It is not the role of public servants to take sides in an industrial dispute, but they also have a duty to patients and an obligation to think about the worst that might happen when junior doctors withdraw their labour.

Sir Bruce Keogh, the Medical Director of NHS England, had every right to ask the BMA, after the terrorist attacks in Paris, whether junior doctors would be available to tend the injured if there were an emergency of that kind during the dispute. The answer could be summed up in two words: “Of course.”

This perfectly reasonable exchange need never have caused any trouble, had it been conducted in private. But as soon as the BMA received the letter, it was made public – as if Sir Bruce sought to use the horror in Paris to turn public opinion against the doctors’ action. A letter of protest, supported by more than 3,000 doctors, asked if he had been put up to writing it by the Health Secretary, Jeremy Hunt.

We now know that there was, indeed, collusion between Sir Bruce and the Department of Health during the drafting of the letter, from a series of emails obtained through a Freedom of Information request. In one, addressed to Sir Bruce, an unidentified civil servant wrote: “I have woven the points from my email earlier this morning into your letter.”

Later Sir Bruce is told to make his point about the risks of a terror attack during the strike more “hard-edged” and reminded that the issue will be pushed hard with the media on the day of the strike declaration.

In pictures: Junior doctors protests in UK







10 show all In pictures: Junior doctors protests in UK

















1/10 20,000 Junior Doctors marched through central London in protest at the new contract changes the government is trying to impose which they say will be unfair and unsafe

2/10 Junior doctors protest in London

3/10 4 year old Cassius takes part in a demonstration in Westminster, in support of junior doctors over changes to NHS contracts, London

4/10 Protest over proposed changes to junior doctors' contracts, Leeds

5/10 Junior doctors and NHS staff protesting against the health service cuts and the proposed contract changes offered by the government outside Parliament

6/10 Junior doctors and NHS staff protesting against the health service cuts and the proposed contract changes offered by the government outside Parliament

7/10 Over 5000 junior doctors rallied in Waterloo place, before marching through Whitehall and onto Parliament Square, in opposition to Jeremy Hunt's new working conditions for doctors

8/10 Demonstrators listen to speeches in Waterloo Place during the 'Let's Save the NHS' rally and protest march by junior doctors

9/10 Junior doctors marched in London to highlight their plight

10/10 A protester at a demonstration in support of junior doctors in London

Other emails refer to the “SoS”, or Secretary of State, making clear that Mr Hunt was involved. The fight between Mr Hunt and the BMA is not Sir Bruce’s fight. He should never have been dragged into it.