http://en.farsnews.com/newstext.aspx?nn=13941018000577
140
14
Politics

Iranian Demonstrators Condemn Saudi Arabia's Execution of Sheikh Nimr

TEHRAN (FNA)- Thousands of Iranians across the country took to the streets on Friday to condemn the execution of prominent Shiite cleric Nimr Baqir al-Nimr by the Saudi regime.

Iranians have been staging several protests ever since the Saudi regime announced on Saturday that it had executed Sheikh Nimr and 46 others. After the news was released, angry Iranian protestors stormed the Saudi embassy following which Riyadh announced severing diplomatic ties with Iran.

On Friday, Iranian worshippers came out to the streets after the Friday Prayers ceremonies across the country to show their continued protest against the barbaric crimes committed by Riyadh.

The protesters chanted "Down with Al Saud", and showed their anger at the barbaric execution of Sheikh Nimr.

In similar protests on Sunday and Monday, people in different Iranian cities held protest rallies to deplore Saudi Arabia for Sheikh Nimr's execution.

The seminaries in the holy city of Mashhad gathered at Razavi Islamic Sciences University to protest at Sheikh Nimr's killing. They chanted slogans against Al Saud and condemned the prominent cleric's killing.

Also in the Southeastern city of Kerman, people held a protest rally in front of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees' office.

The seminaries in the Northwestern city of Zanjan, the Central city of Isfahan and the Northeastern province of North Khorassan also cancelled their classes and poured to the streets to condemn the killing of Sheikh Nimr.

Also in Tehran, the seminaries and senior clerics gathered at Imam Khomeini mausoleum, and deplored the Saudi government for the crime.

Addressing the gathering, Iranian Vice-Speaker Hassan Aboutorabi Fard underlined that execution of Sheikh Nimr revealed the non-Islamic nature of Al Saud.

He underlined that the measure also showed that the Saudi government which relies on the big powers for survival thinks of discord among Muslims.

The execution of Sheikh Nimr was also condemned by the Friday prayers leader of the Sunni-populated Reygan city in Southeastern Iran, Molawi Islam Mollazehi.

"Killing these people creates discord among Muslims and martyrdom of Sheikh Nimr will ignite the fire of insecurity in Saudi Arabia," he told FNA.

Also on Sunday night, angry protesters in Tehran and Mashhad cities held protest rallies in front of the Saudi missions.

Sunni and Shiite Muslims from across the world also rushed to condemn his execution, vowing revenge.

Saudi Foreign Minister Adel al-Jubeir announced on Sunday that the country had severed diplomatic ties with Tehran and gave the Iranian diplomats 48 hours to leave the country.

After his remarks, Iranian Foreign Ministry Spokesman Hossein Jaber Ansari lashed out at the Saudi regime for its dictatorial rule and projecting the blame on others for its big mistakes.

"The legal system in Saudi Arabia belongs to an outdated era. The system which relies on people and families is based on no constitution and they confront and suppress all political and social groups which seek development in this situation," Jaber Ansari told reporters in Tehran on Monday.

Stressing that Saudi Arabia's moves and actions have increased conflicts, clashes and tensions in the region, including igniting war against Yemen and supporting Takfiri terrorism, he said, "The country has also supported the terrorist groups in Iran."

Jaber Ansari underlined that Saudi Arabia not only sees its interests and its survival dependent on continued tensions and conflicts, but also attempts to settle its internal problems through a blame game.

Noting that Saudi Arabia speaks with the language of suppression, execution and beheading with its domestic opposition, including Sheikh Nimr, he expressed confidence that the international community and the regional states will not allow Riyadh to promote its policy of fomenting tensions and instability in the world and the region through reverse policies.

Jaber Ansari referred to the incidents that happened to the Saudi diplomatic missions in Iran in recent days after the execution of Sheikh Nimr, and said Tehran acted upon its responsibilities and controlled the angry people's sentiments and it is committed to protecting the security of diplomatic places and foreign diplomats.

On Tuesday, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani underlined that Saudi Arabia seeks to divert the public opinion from its cruel beheading of Sheikh Nimr through diplomatic tumult with Tehran, and called on advocates of human rights to break silence on Riyadh's crimes.

Speaking in a meeting with the Danish foreign minister in Tehran on Tuesday, President Rouhani referred to the execution of Sheikh Nimr and 46 others for criticizing the Saudi government, and said, "Criticism shouldn’t be punished by beheading and we hope that the European countries which always show reaction to the human rights issues comply with their human rights responsibilities in this regard too."

"Of course, the Saudi government has embarked on a surprising action and cut off its political relations with the Islamic Republic of Iran to cap its crime of beheading a religious leader in the country while there is no doubt that such measures cannot cover up that big crime," he added.