http://www.politico.com/tipsheets/morning-education/2016/01/whats-behind-grad-rate-increase-gop-candidates-to-debate-poverty-issues-president-to-visit-nebraska-louisiana-post-sotu-212074
140
14
What’s behind grad rate increase?

With help from Caitlin Emma, Maggie Severns and Nirvi Shah

THE PUSH TO RAISE THE GRADUATION RATE: With President Barack Obama expected to trumpet the nation’s record high graduation rate of 82 percent during Tuesday’s State of the Union address [ http://politico.pro/1Uzxobi ], Morning Education looked at what brought about the recent growth in high school completion after decades of stagnation. Simple answer? Well, there isn’t one, but experts agree it has come about because of hard work at every level, from principals to governors to charities to the federal government. The federal role is debated, but there have been steps taken by both the George W. Bush and Obama White Houses to tackle the problem. Taking a lead from the National Governors Association, Bush Education Secretary Margaret Spellings set a uniform way for states to calculate graduation rates, a method credited with making them account for every student and other steps that the Obama administration built on, said Bob Balfanz, a researcher at Johns Hopkins University. Beyond the federal efforts, there was a growing understanding that, “there’s this subset of kids that are signalling early that they are in trouble and things like chronic absenteeism matter, and things like suspensions matter,” Balfanz said.

Story Continued Below

— What did districts do? Some rolled out early warning systems to help identify struggling students through attendance records and other means years before they were due to walk across the graduation stage. Others created credit recovery programs and hired employees just to work with at-risk students. The period also saw a reduction of “dropout factory” schools with less than 60 percent of students making it to graduation day. (Alliance for Excellent Education says the number declined from 2,007 in 2002 to 1,040 in 2014.) Aside from accountability efforts, John Gomperts, president of America’s Promise, said having the two White Houses behind the problem helped make it a “thing” that the news media covered and communities responded to.

— Despite these gains, Gomperts’ organization and others leading the GradNation effort recently expressed concern [ http://politico.pro/1O36RhB ] the country for the first time in recent years wasn’t on track to meet their goal of a 90 percent graduation rate by 2020. There have also been questions about whether the bar is set high enough. The group Achieve noted in a recent report [ http://bit.ly/1QBau1v ] that about half of all states have multiple diploma options, and at least one option falls short of college-and-career ready expectations. “The rate keeps going up, but are we preparing more students for a life after high school? Or, are some states lowering the bar or making it easier to get a diploma?” questioned Chad Colby, a spokesman for Achieve.

— Under the Every Student Succeeds Act, high school graduation rates must be included in state accountability plans. But the Education Department needs to clarify a few issues, such as ensuring that, “graduation rates carry sufficient weight within accountability systems,” said Bob Wise, president of the Alliance for Excellent Education.

IT’S A HAPPY FRIDAY, JAN. 8. It’s Nirvi Shah’s birthday! Tweet her a birthday greeting to @ NirviShah . Or, better yet, send her a news tip. Kimberly Hefling here, filling in for Caitlin Emma. She’s back on Monday. Send your tips, clips and amusing GIFs to cemma@politico.com or @caitlinzemma . Send events to: educalendar@politicopro.com. And follow us on Twitter: @Morning_Edu and @POLITICOPro .

AIR FORCE ONE: Speaking of SOTU, after the address the president travels to communities he hasn’t yet visited: Omaha, Nebraska on Wednesday, and Baton Rouge, Louisiana, on Thursday, a White House official said. Nebraska exemplifies the effects of an increase in Pell Grant funding to state residents. And in Louisiana he’ll highlight investments in early education, in part because of millions in federal dollars for Early Head Start and Preschool Development Grants.

NO CANDIDATE LEFT BEHIND: Donald Trump said Thursday night at a Burlington, Vermont, rally that, “There’s no more gun-free zones” in a Trump presidency. He said it would get rid of gun-free zones at both schools and military bases. “You know what a gun-free zone is to a sicko? That’s bait,” Trump said. “My first day, it gets signed.” He suggested that if members of the audience were armed, they would all be safer from outside assailants.

— House Speaker Paul Ryan and Sen. Tim Scott moderate a forum Saturday focused on poverty in Columbia, South Carolina, hosted by the Jack Kemp Foundation. GOP candidates Jeb Bush, Ben Carson, Chris Christie, Carly Fiorina, Mike Huckabee, John Kasich and Marco Rubio are expected to attend. Save the Children Action Network is a co-sponsor. The event is scheduled from 8:30 a.m. to 2 p.m. ET. Watch the livestream here: http://bit.ly/1mIZINx

— At an event Thursday, Carson’s attempt to connect with a student went awry when he asked the group to single out the "worst student" in their class. The students obliged, pointing to a fifth grader. “As a fifth grade student, I was a horrible student,” Carson said. His campaign said he was trying to be encouraging, and after the incident, encouraged the boy identified as Seth to become a neurosurgeon. [ http://politi.co/1OPN1Nr ]

— At town hall after town hall, Hillary Clinton takes questions from kids. It typically unfolds in the same fashion, with a softball or emotional question, with Clinton always reacting expressively, congratulating her diminutive inquisitors for being brave enough to talk to her, asking them what they think of the matter at hand, and eventually delving into a long answer that almost routinely segues into a biography point, an outline of her policy platform, or a broader political point. The moment happens regularly enough that it sometimes seems staged. More from POLITICO: http://politi.co/1S6Yqcj .

** Presented by AFT’s Share My Lesson, a one-stop web platform to help educators meet any challenge. AFT’s Share My Lesson lets educators all over America download over 300,000 free lesson plans and share ideas. Learn more at ShareMyLesson.com **

THE OBAMA ISSUE – POLITICO MAGAZINE OUT TODAY: Days before President Obama will deliver his final State of the Union address, POLITICO Magazine releases a standout issue on America’s 44th president and his hotly contested, historic presidency. Glenn Thrush, Michael Grunwald, Rich Lowry, Michael Eric Dyson, and Michael Crowley are just some of the contributors to this must-read issue. Read here: http://politi.co/1JZskHF or grab a print copy at a Starbucks around D.C. Don’t miss the cover: Created by artist Craig Ward, the extraordinary cover is made up of hundreds of images of the president, an in-progress constellation of thousands of moments, big and small: http://bit.ly/1VNKXVR .

CONCERNS OVER A PRIVACY STUDY: A comment period closed this week on a study being conducted by the Institute of Education Sciences that will examine data-driven instruction — and at least one privacy group is not pleased. The study involves creating a new record system that will contain identifiable information on students that could be vulnerable in a data breach, the Electronic Privacy Information Center said in comments submitted to the Education Department. Though education programs need to be evaluated, “this particular study appears to be one more effort by the agency to transfer sensitive student data to private contractors without any meaningful privacy safeguards,” EPIC said. The group suggests the department use more aggregate information as opposed to a database containing personally identifiable information on students. Read more: http://bit.ly/1Z9pDdl . (h/t Washington Post)

NUDGE ON CAREER EDUCATION: A coalition of 350 businesses and organizations is sending a letter to members of Congress today prodding them to reauthorize the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act. The letter encourages Congress to align career and technical education program to the needs of local labor markets. It also encourages the use of “industry-recognized” credentials. Signers include Fortune 500 companies such as IBM. The letter: http://bit.ly/1n87VeG.

OKLAHOMA’S STATE BUDGET PINCH: Oklahoma will lose nearly $47 million in education funding after falling tax revenues led state finance officials to declare a revenue failure last month, adding that each state agency would be cut by 3 percent for six months to to make up for a projected $157 million shortfall. (The Oklahoman has more: http://bit.ly/1OD7vHt .) After the state board approved the multi-million dollar cut to education Thursday, Superintendent Joy Hofmeister said “there is no denying that this cut poses serious challenges for school districts during a time in which every dollar already is precious, and not all districts will be affected the same way. But the state board of education and Oklahoma state Department of Education have addressed the required cuts as fairly and judiciously as possible, while attempting to minimize student impact.”

— In other state budget news, California Superintendent Tom Torlakson on Thursday lauded Gov. Jerry Brown’s proposed budget of nearly $123 billion, noting that it includes an additional investment of $300 million for career and technical education and increases the state’s education funding guarantee to $71.6 billion, “a dramatic improvement from the $47.3 billion budget share in the depths of the recession five years ago,” he said. Torlakson said he’s looking forward to talking about a proposed $1.6 billion block grant for early education, as well. “We need to keep working together to provide high-quality instruction for our youngest learners, especially at-risk children in low-income communities,” he said. But the advocacy group Children Now said “the proposal fails to adequately invest in early education,” among other issues.

NEW YEAR, NEW EDU: Looking ahead to 2016, Dan Weisberg, the CEO of TNTP, said he expects a lot of states to revamp how they measure student performance under the Every Student Succeeds Act. The smartest leaders will likely turn to sound research and begin focusing more on an often-overlooked audience: “Students,” he said. “Well-crafted student surveys, among other things, will give them insight into the classroom and school culture. And now that most states have decided what their academic standards will be, we’re going to see a shift to how those standards will be taught in the classroom. Everyone’s going to be paying a lot more attention to student work, and we’ll start seeing more examples of what rigorous teaching and learning looks like.”

— On special education: Brian Sharp, executive vice president for education at a company serving students with disabilities called Rethink, said schools may need to re-evaluate support for special ed teachers. “We’ve known for some time that teachers and paraprofessionals don’t feel they are getting the training they need, but there have been a flurry of news stories in recent months on the challenges these educators face and if schools don’t do something, they may see a sizable exodus in 2016.”

MOVERS AND SHAKERS

— John Morgan, chancellor of the Tennessee Board of Regents, resigned in protest to a plan by Gov. Bill Haslam to create independent boards for six state universities now governed by the Board of Regents. [ http://tnne.ws/1OdTVqr ]

— Whiteboard Advisors named Matt Pickering as vice president. He’s a former teacher who recently worked for ACT Inc.

REPORT ROLL CALL

— Generation Progress explores steps local and state governments can take to tackle student debt such as allowing refinancing of student debt at the local or state level: http://bit.ly/1S6JJWC

— The American Educational Research Association looks at whether kindergarten is the new first grade, and finds there is, “surprisingly little empirical evidence about the extent to which kindergarten classrooms have changed over time”: http://bit.ly/1SCrQOJ

SYLLABUS

— Texas Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick vows to pass a bigger and better tax credit scholarship program. Texas Tribune: http://bit.ly/1PNra6n

— Appointed leader of Detroit Public Schools says repeated school closures from teacher sickouts hurt students and the district’s finances. Detroit News: http://detne.ws/1OQzohg

— Nevada judge delays decision in school choice program case. The Associated Press: http://bit.ly/1O7vWv1

— Ohio legislators debate opt-out penalties. Cleveland Plain Dealer: http://bit.ly/1Z8OmP0

— Chicago teachers union calls for resignation of Mayor Rahm Emanuel. The Associated Press: http://sfchron.cl/1ZQBmzR

— A group of Colorado district superintendents raises concerns about changing from ACT to SAT for required junior year testing. Chalkbeat Colorado: bit.ly/1K12D9x

— Obama focuses on millennials in his gun control message. POLITICO: http://politi.co/1OD8Ei9

It’s a Beautiful Day [ http://bit.ly/1iJ8jLD ] with the ProEducation team: @ MLBombard or mbombardieri@politico.com, @ CaitlinZEmma or cemma@politico.com, @ alliegrasgreen or agrasgreen@politico.com, @ khefling or khefling@politico.com, @ MaggieSeverns or mseverns@politico.com, @ NirviShah or nshah@politico.com.

** Presented by AFT’s Share My Lesson, a one-stop website to help educators meet any challenge. AFT’s new Share My Lesson web platform gives educators all over America free access to download over 300,000 lesson plans and share ideas. Since its creation in 2012, Share My Lesson has grown to over 900,000 members and more than 10 million downloads.

No matter the challenge, AFT’s Share My Lesson helps teachers teach and students learn. Learn more at ShareMyLesson.com **

** Presented by The 74: THE FOUNDERS — INSIDE THE REVOLUTION TO INVENT (AND REINVENT) AMERICA’S BEST CHARTER SCHOOLS, published by The 74: Author Richard Whitmire traveled the country for two years, visiting America’s most successful schools and meeting their founders. The more he spoke with them, the more he heard about how these early leaders found themselves in unlikely collaboration across the country, sharing strategies they'd invented, best practices that had begun to boost a generation of students, and the lessons learned, impacting future generations to come.

Whitmire’s profile of the founders and their schools is now available for download at The74.org/TheFounders. You’ll also find a series of documentaries and an extensive oral history archive featuring legendary charter founders recounting how they came to rethink the way America was teaching kids — many of them poor and minority children. Read the story and see the videos: The74.org/TheFounders **