http://www.timeslive.co.za/local/2016/10/11/Protesting-students-gather-again-after-Wits-takes-%E2%80%98irresponsible-decision%E2%80%99-to-remain-open
143
14
“Wow. Irresponsible decision again‚” was how the Students Representative Council (SRC) reacted to the university’s intention to remain open‚ and it called for gathering at 7am at the Piazza outside the Great Hall‚ where clashes had initially started on Monday.

Wow. Irresponsible decision again. https://t.co/GPgjbpnAWM — Wits SRC (@WitsSRC) October 10, 2016

allowfullscreen



The university described the chaos thus: “Following the disruption of some lectures‚ protestors gathered in front of the Great Hall and threw rocks at private security.

“The police responded and dispersed the crowd using teargas‚ stun grenades and water cannons. The protestors ran into Braamfontein‚ where we have heard that a bus was set alight and people were injured through skirmishes with the police.”



Wits SRC secretary-general Fasiha Hassan denied this was the actions of students‚ saying “they don’t act like this”.

Clashes are likely again on Tuesday as Wits iterated that “the operational control of the security is in the hands of the police and they have agreed to deploy resources on a building by building basis tomorrow”.

“The national commissioner has advised that there is a clear strategy to arrest any individual involved in criminal activity‚” Wits said‚ adding that “at least 11 arrests were made”. Those students face immediate suspensions according to new protest conditions set down by management at the weekend.

National commissioner Lieutnenat-General Khomotso Phahlane on Monday praised police for continuing “to display maximum restraint in the face of severe provocation”.

He said “people with agendas of their own have infiltrated the 'Fees Must Fall' initiative and we continue to call upon all those involved to exercise restraint”.

The university‚ emboldened that “just over half of all lectures went ahead today across campuses”‚ said it was “determined to get the full academic programme back on track”.

It said it had met with “some student leaders privately and we are open to engaging with students from all societies and mediators to try to find a negotiated settlement”.

Wits claimed that its Dean of Students “invited 20 student representatives to meet with management today‚ but the students did not take the offer”.

“We are also open to an imbizo provided that it doesn’t fall into teaching time‚ it is facilitated independently‚ it allows for two-way conversation and is planned in advance‚” the university said.