http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/law-abiders-or-lawbreakers/article8762649.ece
141
14
Police threaten locals who protested against dumping of waste by the former near a cemetery

If the police are often seen acting against those tipping waste in public places, it was a role reversal of sorts for men in Khaki recently.

Last week, people living in the neighbourhood of a cemetery near Aluva staged a protest against policemen who attempted to drive off after dumping a truckload of waste in the location. The ‘waste’, consisting mostly of tobacco products seized during raids over the past several months, was brought to the cemetery one afternoon.

On an alert from locals, local body members rushed to the spot and asked the cops to clear the illegally dumped waste immediately. The issue, however, escalated into an altercation, as some policemen threatened the protestors with legal action for preventing the police from discharging their duty.

The situation eased on the intervention of the Station House Officer, who agreed to clear the pile and shift it to a waste treatment plant near Kakkanad at the earliest. According to the police, the truck driver mistakenly brought the waste pile to the cemetery instead of a dumping yard.

A cat and

mouse game

Ever since the arrest of the suspect in the Perumbavoor murder case, the police are locked in a cat and mouse game with the media.

While cops are trying their best not to publish the suspect’s photograph before completing the identification parade, a section of the media appears unmindful of the consequences of doing so. The police now fear that some photographs of the suspect have already found their way to certain media houses and have issued a formal request to the media to refrain from publishing or telecasting them.

“Releasing the photograph at this stage will affect the identification process and, ultimately, the trial itself. What happens if the suspect is proved innocent later? By then, the accused will have his life exposed, his guilt presumed and his future ruined because of the media coverage,” a senior officer said.

Earlier, a photo claimed to be that of the accused was shared on the social media, which later proved to be bogus.

Hiran Unnikrishnan