http://thezimbabwemail.com/headline-29239-opposition-pushes-for-one-candidate.html
141
14
BULAWAYO – People’s Democratic Party (PDP) secretary-general Gorden Moyo says opposition parties’ mooted grand coalition stands a chance of annihilating President Robert Mugabe and Zanu PF in the 2018 election if it fields one candidate.

Opposition political parties are working on creating an electoral pact that will ultimately lead to the formation of a grand coalition, the first of its kind since independence.

“We believe that all political parties must come together and resolve the crisis we are in. We should not give up because we are almost there,” Moyo told the party supporters at its first anniversary celebrations in Bulawayo on Sunday.

“I would like to say let’s put one candidate for opposition parties in 2018. Not two or three candidates, that way we believe we can remove Mugabe.”

Zimbabwe’s opposition figures have in recent months shown signs of working together to end Mugabe’s 36-year unflappable rule which angry Zimbabweans blame for causing the current hardships.

MDC leader Morgan Tsvangirai and Zimbabwe People First (ZPF) interim president Joice Mujuru — last month sent Zanu PF into panic mode when they held joint rallies in Gweru.

And officials from both parties have said a deal to form an electoral pact between the two parties which feeds into the structures already created by other smaller parties, is close to be being completed.

Mugabe, 92, is blamed for authoring the myriad problems that the country is facing, including shortages of cash and company closures.

“We should all go to the streets and demand all that we want. Let’s unite and fight for our cause. Even if we are to keep quiet, we will still die so let’s not be intimidated. Let’s fight for our right,” said Moyo.

His sentiments were echoed by Zapu president Dumiso Dabengwa who gave a solidarity speech at the same celebrations.

“I urge youths to take the lead in light of this crisis in the country. Take to the streets and demand your rights. We played our role during the liberation struggle, it’s now your time,” said Dabengwa.

“They will arrest and intimidate you but that’s part of the struggle. The good thing is people are now united.

“Go to the streets and demonstrate, the High Court cleared us. They said we should go ahead with our demonstrations, so don’t be scared and don’t be intimidated,” added the Zapu supremo.

Mugabe, in face of unrelenting dissenters, tried despairingly to contain protests when his government issued a decree banning demonstrations in Harare.

In the wake of the court ruling, the veteran but increasingly frail Zanu PF leader issued an ominous warning to opposition political parties when he threatened to jail their leaders. -Daily News