http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/2016-09/06/c_135664575.htm
141
14
Thousands of Chinese marched on Sunday in Paris to protest against insecurity and crimes targeting Chinese. (Xinhua/Han Bing)

PARIS, Sept. 5 (Xinhua) -- Thousands of Chinese living in France marched Sunday in Paris to protest against insecurity and crimes targeting Chinese after a Chinese textile designer died after being attacked last month in Paris suburbs.

Police data showed about 15,000 people attended the rally on Sunday, the largest gathering of Chinese community since 2012.

Wearing white T-shirts, protesters waved French flags and chanted "Security for all"," Freedom, equality, fraternity and security." The wave of protests came after 49-year-old Zhang Chaolin died last month after five days in a coma. He had been mugged in the northern Paris suburb of Aubervilliers by three men who stole his bag.

"The Chinese community does not talk much. It is very discreet and here people have finally decided to say something ... The message at this protest is that all communities feel concerned," Veronique Yang, a Sino-French journalist told Xinhua, adding: "we are citizens with full French citizenship."

Stephane Cheng, a French of Chinese origin said the reason for the rally was "to put pressure on the government so that our demands will better been taken into account."

"People need to feel protected by the French government when they come to France, and for us, it is still not enough," he added.

Caroline Zhang, a Chinese student who has lived in Paris for three years, does not dare to go out at night. "I am not reassured to go out because I have friends who are being robbed..." she said.

"The Chinese have reputation for carrying a lot of cash on them. But, we are targeted for nothing," she said.

In Sunday's peaceful protest, many French people joined Chinese protesters to express solidarity with them. John Pergouret, manager of Saphir Eurasia Promotion agency, said: "I have a network on WeChat where many Chinese tourists I work with were attacked. They feel insecure and I'm demonstrating along with the Chinese community because we are all concerned."