http://classic.iol.co.za/capetimes/sans-souci-girls-protest-racist-language-rules-1.2063682
141
14
IN A YELLOW merit book the pupils of Sans Souci Girls’ High School are to carry with them at all times is a demerit marked against a pupil for speaking her home language, isiXhosa.

Yesterday, a group of pupils protested against what they have called institutionalised racism perpetuated by their school’s code of conduct.

The girls say the school rules do not accommodate their natural hair, and they are not allowed to speak their home language if it is not English.

Pupils wore their red uniform ties around their heads and tore up their yellow books in protest.

Parents and teachers have also spoken out against the school.

Since it emerged earlier this week that black pupils were allegedly being told to straighten their hair at the Pretoria High School for Girls, pupils at other schools across the country have also spoken out about racism.

A former teacher at the school, who asked not to be named, told the Cape Times that although the school has a large majority of black pupils, they are not allowed to speak isiXhosa in class at all and are threatened with detention.

“In one of the school assemblies, they had an entire PowerPoint presentation on hair. Girls were allowed to have ponytails, short fringes and hair that reached their collar as well as buns.

“Banned hairstyles were braids or any types of extensions and afros. Cornrows were allowed, but only in straight lines running back. The girls were very unhappy during the presentation.

"They had very limited options for their hair, which led them to come to school with hairstyles totally unsuited to their hair type, then being chastised for having untidy hair,” she said.

Pupil Nobulali Dili said pupils were told they could not wear their natural hair and to tie up their afros.

“How do you tie an afro? We can’t have dreadlocks. You are not allowed to have braids, and we can’t speak own mother tongue. It’s understandable during class hours, but during breaks we sit in fear that we must look out for a teacher, that a teacher may come while we are speaking our language,” she said.

Alice Mbonga said her daughter in Grade 8 had been told her long plaited hair was not acceptable.

“I have been aware for a while now of all these concerns. I felt that the school had not transformed. These kids are expected to present themselves in a certain way, and that way is a very imperialistic, white way.​"​

She said the school’s code of conduct should have been changed years ago.

“There is a wave of change that’s happening in the education sector. These younger ones are taking it upon themselves to stand up for their rights. Change must come to Sans Souci.”

Education MEC Debbie Schäfer has called for all schools in the province to review their codes of conduct to ensure that they are in line with the constitution and representative of the school community.

Schäfer said any allegations of racism and discrimination are taken seriously by the department. “When we became aware of the Sans Souci Girls' High School matter, our officials immediately went to the school to investigate. This investigation is continuing.”

Schäfer said there were also serious allegations about the actions of some teachers.

“The individual actions are still being investigated as a priority, and I will receive the report as soon as it is finalised.

“In the meantime, I have discussed the matter with the chair of the governing body. He advised me that none of these issues has been raised by the learner representatives on the governing body at any stage.

“He has committed to convening an urgent SGB meeting next week, where they will do whatever is necessary to ensure that issues of concern are discussed and suitably addressed,” she said.

Protests are expected to continue today.

lisa.isaacs@inl.co.za