http://www.philstar.com/cebu-news/2016/10/19/1635158/protests-vs-heros-burial-continue
141
14
CEBU, Philippines - The Cebu Citizens Assembly Against the Marcos Burial said stories of Martial Law victims should be allowed to be heard before the high court.

This after the Supreme Court’s decision yesterday to extend to November 8 its status quo ante order on the burial of former President Ferdinand Marcos at the Libingan ng mga Bayani.

"We pray for the Supreme Court to side with the real heroes of Martial Law by voting against the hero's burial for Ferdinand Marcos," said the group, whose rally was aborted following the High Tribunal's decision.

The group said that this is a partial victory to all Martial Law victims and anti-dictatorship forces.

"We will continue to be vigilant and oppose Marcos' burial at the Libingan ng mga Bayani," the statement further read.

The group, together with some Martial Law victims and other anti-Marcos non-government organizations, has been conducting a series of rallies in Cebu to show to the nation that Cebuanos are against the burial of the late dictator at the LNMB, contending that he is not a hero and does not deserve a hero’s burial.

Freeman ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch:

Meanwhile, a group of students from the University of the Philippines-Cebu staged a rally yesterday afternoon as a continuing protest against Marco’s burial at the LNMB.

The protesting students believe that the stance of President Rodrigo Duterte allowing the Marcos burial at the heroes' cemetery may have something to do with the Marcos family's contribution to his campaign kitty during the recent elections.

The students affiliated with Sanlakas and Akbayan parties were supposed to be joined by other sectoral groups here in Cebu in anticipation of the SC decision.

The activity was supposed to run from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. but was shortened as it was preempted by the SC's postponement of the petition against the hero's burial.

Some 30 students welcomed the SC decision to extend the restraining order although they hope that a favorable decision against Marcos' burial at the LNMB will be made on November 8.

Chants and speeches from students filled the program at the UP Cebu campus with the battle cry: “Marcos is not a hero" and "Forgiveness demands Justice" for the atrocities during the Marcos regime.

Sanlakas Youth organizer Justine Balane said they welcome the decision to extend the status quo ante order until November 8 in order for the SC to discuss thoroughly the new manifestations of the petitioners like Etta Rosales.

“Our petitioners Ka Etta Rosales would want the Supreme Court to weigh in on the manifestations that Imee Marcos and the Marcos family may have contributed to the campaign kitty of President Rodrigo Duterte," said Balane.

Just like other groups protesting the hero's burial for Marcos, Balane said the Marcos family has not acknowledged atrocities and returned the ill-gotten wealth. — Mitchelle L. Palaubsanon and Dale G. Israel (FREEMAN)