http://www.news.com.au/national/western-australia/a-relative-of-tragic-teen-elijah-doughty-has-committed-suicide-at-the-scene-of-his-death-in-remote-kalgoorlie/news-story/a7cb8340dcad3c053f8373bd312cc84a
141
14
Video

Image AU WA: Protesters and Riot Police Stand Off Outside Kalgoorlie Courthouse 5:25 Violent protests broke out in the main street of Kalgoorlie, following the death of a 14-year-old boy in the Goldfields region of Western Australia. The boy?s body was found on August 29, in bushland at Boulder, following reports a motorbike had collided with a ute. It was alleged the motorbike was stolen and a 55-year-old man was charged with manslaughter. ABC News reported the ute was linked to the owner of the stolen motorcycle. The man was due in court on August 30 but protesters demanding ?justice? surrounded the precinct and threw rocks and bottles, injuring a police officer. The video show the protesters throwing bottles and yelling at riot police. Credit: Facebook/Tjuma Pulka Original Nations Media Corporation

Staff Writers News Corp Australia Network

THE troubled gold mining town of Kalgoorlie has been hit by another tragedy, with the suicide yesterday of a relative of teenager Elijah Doughty.

Doughty’s death after allegedly being run down by a ute while he was riding his bike just outside the West Australian goldfields town in August sparked race riots.

Friends and family of the 14-year-old were outraged after he was left for dead by the driver, who fled the scene and now faces manslaughter charges.

But now the region has now been rocked by another tragedy.

The ABC reports a 34-year-old mother of three, who was related to Doughty, on Monday travelled to the “sorry site” established by locals to grieve for the boy and ended her own life.

Kalgoorlie police confirmed the death but did not comment further.

The death inflamed tensions in the remote and divided town, 600km east of Perth, and dozens of locals were arrested as they protested during the days after Doughty’s body was found.

“It was going to happen sooner or later,” Doughty’s grandfather Albert told local radio of the riots.

“It’s like a powder keg and it all came out yesterday.”

Local police at the time downplayed racial elements of Doughty’s death, with Acting Commander Darryl Gaunt saying: “There’s nothing to suggest this is anything other than an Aboriginal boy that’s been tragically killed, not that he’s Aboriginal and that this was motivated by his Aboriginality”.

The Goldfields are among many Australian regions plagued by suicides and former Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander social justice commissioner Tom Calma has described remote indigenous suicide as an “epidemic” and called on a bipartisan approach to a solution.

There were more than 150 Aboriginal suicides last year, the highest number ever recorded.

Friends of the 34 year old mother told the ABC they were devastated by her death, adding it was very difficult for indigenous people to ask for help.

“Historically Aboriginal people have had a fear of welfare and police, because they’re only there to take your kids away,” said Dianne Logan, a friend of the woman.

“They’re not used to talking to strangers, because nobody listens.”

Health Minister Sussan Ley is set to travel to the Kimberley on Friday to chair a roundtable on indigenous suicide, alongside indigenous Affairs Minister Nigel Scullion and Assistant Minister for Health Ken Wyatt, an indigenous man from Western Australia.

Readers seeking support and information about suicide prevention can contact Lifeline on 13 11 14, Kids Helpline on 1800 551 800 or Suicide Call Back Service on 1300 659 467.