http://www.india.com/news/india/dussehra-narendra-modi-in-lucknow-to-sound-poll-bugle-in-uttar-pradesh-1549316/
141
14
Lucknow, Oct 11: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit the Aishbagh Dussehra Mela in Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh. With less than six months to go for the crucial Assembly election in Uttar Pradesh, Narendra Modi’s visit to Lucknow on Dussehra is being keenly observed by political analysts and general public too. Narendra Modi land will at Amausi airport at 6pm and reach the ground. Modi will also take part in Manglacharan before addressing people. Narendra Modi will be accompanied by Union Home Minister and local MP, Rajnath Singh, Governor Ram Naik and UP BJP chief Keshav Prasad Maurya.

Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections are around the corner and the state is heading towards a four-corner battle. Four major contenders – ruling Samajwadi Party, Mayawati’s Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)- are leaving no stone unturned to wrest power in Uttar Pradesh. Ruling SP is witnessing internal rift with an open fight between Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav and his paternal uncle Shivpal Singh Yadav. Congress and BSP are trying hard to get back in power in Uttar Prdaesh, while BJP and Narendra Modi want to repeat the victory of 2014 Lok Sabha elections again.

Samajwadi Party has once again announced some freebie schemes like Samajwadi Smartphone Yojna to woo voters, while BSP is banking on caste arithmetic calling for Dalit-Mulsim unity in Uttar Pradesh. Congress seems struggling to end its 27-year exile from power in Uttar Pradesh. On the other hand, BJP has bright prospects in Uttar Pradesh if Modi wave continues. BJP won 71 out of the 80 Lok Sabha seats in Uttar Pradesh, which played key role in its decisive victory in general elections. (ALSO READ: Rahul Gandhi ‘Khat Sabha’ moves to Gorakhpur: Will turn out convert to votes in 2017 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections?)

On the Dusshera occasion, almost every party has organised a public speech. Narendra Modi will address people in Lucknow, while Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi will speak at Ramlila maidan. Modi’s known critic Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will address gathering at Luv Kush Ramlila Maidan. Shiv Sena will hold rally in Maharashtra. It mean a fierce war of words is in making where politicians use the opportunity to demonise each other. Parties will portray their leader as Ram and rival as Ravan.

The war of words has already began. Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav said Narendra Modi would have taken part in Ravan Vadh in Bihar had there been election there, while BSP president Mayawati termed the visit as politically motivated. Rejecting Opposition’s charge, the BJP said Modi’s visit Lucknow has no “politics” or “hidden agenda”. “There is no politics or hidden agenda behind the prime minister’s visit to the historic Dussehra Mela at Aishbagh ground tomorrow,” BJP national vice-president and Lucknow Mayor Dinesh Sharma said.