http://www.whio.com/news/local-govt--politics/clark-county-trump-rally-draws-thousands-backs-traffic/kaO3hxPtlA4vR1787YC3lL/
141
14
Updated: Tuesday, November 01, 2016 @ 10:34 PM

By: Staff - Staff Writer

Voters in Montgomery County have two county commission races on the ballot Tuesday where Democratic incumbents face Republican challengers.

Video: Watch all 4 candidates on WHIO Reports

We sent the candidates a questionnaire asking about how they would improve the county, deal with spending and other issues.

Today we will look at the race between Democrat Judy Dodge and Republican Robert Matthews. In Thursday’s newspaper we will focus on the race between Democrat Debbie Lieberman and Republican Gary Leitzell.

—-

Download the free DDN app to get real-time election results

On Twitter: Join the discussion on @Ohio_Politics

On Facebook: Like our Ohio Politics Facebook page and join the discussion and sound off on the issues.

VOTERS GUIDE: Compare the candidates on the issues. Learn about all the issues and candidates on the ballot.

—-

Q: What are the biggest problems facing Montgomery County? What do you propose doing to tackle these challenges?

Judy Dodge: There are a couple of issues that are currently at the forefront of the problems facing Montgomery County. The first is the opioid crisis, and the deaths in our community due to heroin overdoses. This crisis is overwhelming our community.

Montgomery County has recently announced new and expanded services to help combat this problem. We have recently announced the convening of all stakeholders to establish a Collective Impact Collaborative to attack this epidemic and reduce the number of overdose deaths and the number of those addicted.

Another challenge would be the elimination of the managed healthcare sales tax, which could reduce the county’s revenue by $8 million.

As in past years, the county has made a conscious effort to spend our dollars effectively and efficiently and will continue to monitor this situation.

Robert Matthews: The Presidential race is getting the attention, but Montgomery County government has a direct impact on the daily lives of our citizens. These citizens need to realize that without change in leadership, nothing will change about the serious problems we are facing in the county.

Q: What makes you qualified for this job? What experience do you have to make good and informed decisions about leading the county?

Judy Dodge: I have been honored to serve as a county commissioner for the past 10 years, and have utilized my experience at the state and local level to guide my judgment in decision-making.

I have served on numerous boards and commissions both as an elected official and as a citizen. During my career in public service, I have served in a variety of capacities. I began my public service in 1985 on the State and Local Government Commission in the Lt. Governor’s Office.

I went on to work as a Commission Assistant from 1987-1991. After my tenure with the County Commission, I worked as a Regional Liaison to the Ohio Attorney General’s Office from 1991-1995. I also have several years of experience in the Montgomery County Domestic Relations Court as the assistant court administrator.

In 2000, I was elected as the county recorder, and served until I was elected to the county commission in 2006. It is the breadth of this experience that provides me with ability to see the big picture and make good decisions.

Robert Matthews: Montgomery County resident for 44 years, a homeowner in the county for 24 years. BS degree in electrical engineering, and an MS degree in computing science from Texas A&M University.

Married to my wife Phyllis for 40 years, with 2 children and 2 young grandchildren. Member of Far Hills Community Church for over 40 years, and am currently active in an inner city church where I have been for 11 years. Over 30 years of business experience, including information technology and project management experience.

Currently I am a project manager, and closing out a $1 million contract with Vantiv corporation (processing credit card and ATM transactions). I have worked for many Montgomery County companies, including NCR, DP&L, Delco Products, and Standard Register.

I have developed software systems for Montgomery County, City of Dayton, City of Fairborn, and Wright Patterson AFB. For the last 3 years, I have served in the elected position of Miami Township Trustee (home of the Dayton Mall and Austin Landing). This means I understand how to run a government entity, but I am not a professional politician.

Q: What would you do if elected to make life better for Montgomery County residents? What’s one idea you have for improving life for citizens?

Judy Dodge: I’m proud of what I’ve done in our community while in office and want to continue to move us forward to a brighter future.

I have been working to build a community environment that will attract and retain workforce and families, by cultivating good jobs, supporting safe neighborhoods and a sound safety net.

I will continue my work on local food and hunger issues to have safe, healthy and affordable food accessible to every Montgomery County resident.

Robert Matthews: I would absolutely focus on: 1. Creating livable wage jobs for everyone that wants to work

2. Attacking our heroin problem One idea is to restore the budget for the Sheriff department. The department budget has been cut so severely that there has been a loss of approximately 1/4 of the deputies. This has allowed drug dealers to run rampant through our County. Let’s get them off the streets!