http://www.independent.ie/regionals/argus/news/derry-plans-protest-after-dundalk-attack-35121565.html
141
14
Politicians, fans, residents and club officials from Derry City are to march on Friday against the violence that marred their clash with Dundalk FC in the Maiden City last week, which left a teenager injured and Lilywhite supporters' buses damaged.

Politicians, fans, residents and club officials from Derry City are to march on Friday against the violence that marred their clash with Dundalk FC in the Maiden City last week, which left a teenager injured and Lilywhite supporters' buses damaged.

Politicians, fans, residents and club officials from Derry City are to march on Friday against the violence that marred their clash with Dundalk FC in the Maiden City last week, which left a teenager injured and Lilywhite supporters' buses damaged.

Gary Stewart, who is from Derry and has lived in Dundalk for the past 19 years, told the Derry Journal that he saw a gang of 30 to 40 youths in the area as the Dundalk group made their way to the stadium.

He said: 'Whenever we went into the match they must have jumped the gates, slashed one of the tyres and broke a window. They also sprayed graffiti on the back window. Whenever we came out after the match we didn't even get to the bus, these young fellows came over and hit a couple of the lads'. The group lost one teenager who, it transpired, had been struck on the head with a bottle and was treated by the Derry team doctor. The boy got a lift home with a member of the press from Dundalk.

Another young fan was punched and knocked to the ground, and Mr Stewart had to get him to safety. He praised the 'true Derry fans' who helped them in the aftermath of the incidents, but said he was stunned by what he saw in his home city. There was widespread condemnation of the attacks.

It was announced earlier today that Derry club directors will be joined by fans and local residents in a symbolic march from Lecky Road to the Brandywell Stadium before the kick-off against Bohemians on Friday evening. Club director, Tony O'Doherty, said he hopes the 'solidarity march' will show the 'true face' of Derry City FC and its supporters.

He told the Derry Journal: 'What happened after the Dundalk game is not typical of the experience away fans get when they come to Brandywell. I'm continually meeting true Derry City fans who are telling me that they are sick, sore and tired at the tarnishing of the club's reputation because of these young people. I can understand that frustration. Friday night is an opportunity for them to show the true face of Derry City and its fans - the real alternative to that being portrayed in the media'.

Irish Independent