http://thenationonlineng.net/insecurity-rivers-apc-verbal-war/
141
14
The Rivers State government and the state’s chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) have engaged in fresh war of words over alleged campaign of anarchy in Rivers.

The state Commissioner for Information and Communications, Dr. Austin Tam-George, in a press statement yesterday in Port Harcourt, claimed that he was aware of leaked plans by the state’s APC to launch a campaign of anarchy in the coming weeks.

The APC, through its Rivers Publicity Secretary, Chris Finebone, in its reaction, admonished right-thinking people of the state and other Nigerians to ignore Tam-George’s mischievous, senseless, childish and shameless allegations, described as fiction from his infantile and degenerate mind.

Rivers information commissioner said: “The APC may be working in close coordination with little known ‘civil society’ organisations and other faceless groups to instigate crisis in Rivers State.

“The plans include a series of state-wide riots, in apparent protest against the Rivers State government and Governor Nyesom Wike’s role in challenging the impunity by officials of the Department of State Services (DSS), during the midnight invasion of the home of a federal judge in Port Harcourt last weekend.

“The objective of the APC may be to create a climate of lawlessness, which can lead to bank robberies, attacks on strategic state assets, random assaults on young women in the streets and scare mongering in places of worship.

“An attack on the Port Harcourt Prison facility, in order to set prime suspects and die-hard criminals free, is central to the emerging APC plans.”

Tam-George also alleged that the first wave of the planned APC riots might begin in the streets of Port Harcourt and quickly spread to other parts of the state, such as Ogoni, Abua, Emohua and Oyigbo.

Rivers information commissioner claimed: “Heavy monetary inducement for coordinators of the riots in each ‘flash point’ or location is also being planned.

“I call on the security agencies to closely monitor the activities of Rivers State APC’s leaders in Abuja, Lagos and Port Harcourt, in order to forestall the breakdown of law and order in the state.

“Rivers State is safe and the government will continue to work with the security agencies to keep it safe. I urge residents of the state to be vigilant, as they go about their lawful businesses.”

Tam-George also called on Nigerians and the international community to hold the APC and its surrogates responsible for any sudden and coordinated outbreak of violence and robberies in the state.

In its reaction, the Rivers APC said: “The statement (by Tam-George) is the most fictional, puerile and outlandish story ever to come out of the infantile and degenerate mind of any living being anywhere on mother earth. Everything about the statement suggests that the author is planning a big scam on his principal (Wike) for monetary reward.

“The APC is worried that an adult could plot to obtain funds from his principal by contriving an imaginary scenario and cook up a false story, in order to justify his next financial proposal to his principal, at the expense of the name of APC.

“Sadly, we hear that the trend now within the Wike decrepit government is for officials to pull one scam or another on the governor for monetary reason. We cannot find any other reason for the fictional statement Tam-George shamelessly concocted and distributed to the media.

“The APC has no tradition of causing chaos in Rivers State and the PDP government in the state knows that as a fact. Tam-George should not use the name of APC to retire fictitious expenses of allocation of Rivers State Ministry of Information and Communications. Neither should he use the name of our party to pass fake financial proposal to Wike.”