http://aninews.in/newsdetail-NElOVFZD/Mjc2ODkwSU5UVkM/baloch-leaders-in-exile-booked-for-backing-pm-modi-039-s-remarks-on-balochistan.html
141
14
Baloch leaders-in-exile booked for backing PM Modi's remarks on Balochistan Updated: Aug 22, 2016 15:44 IST

Quetta (Pakistan), Aug. 22 ( ANI ): The local police have said that five cases have been registered against Baloch leaders-in-exile in Balochistan's Khuzdar area for allegedly backing Indian Prime Minister's remarks on the atrocities in Pakistan's Balochistan province.

The cases were registered against Baloch Republican Party's (BRP) Brahamdagh Bugti, Baloch liberation leader Harbiyar Marri and Baloch Students Organisation chairperson Karima Baloch.

The complaints were filed by Munir Ahmed, Maulana Muhammad Aslam, Muhammad Hussain, Ghulam Yaseen Jatak and Muhammad Rahim at five police stations in Balochistan's Khuzdar area, reports the Dawn.

Acting District Police Officer Khuzdar Muhammad Ashraf Jatak said the petitioners claimed that Bugti, Marri and Karima Baloch had 'supported' Indian Prime Minister Modi's August 15 speech.

Thewere booked under Sections 120, 121, 123 and 353 of the Pakistan Penal Code which refer to "concealing design to commit offence punishable with imprisonment", "waging or attempting to wage war or abetting waging of war against Pakistan", "concealing with intent to facilitate design to wage war", and "assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty".

Prime Minister Modi, in his Independence Day address, had thanked the people of Balochistan, Gilgit and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir for the goodwill they have shown towards him.

He had in an all-party meeting on Kashmir said the "time has come that Pakistan shall have to answer to the world for the atrocities committed by it against the people in Balochistan and PoK".

His statement about atrocities in Balochistan has hit a nerve with Pakistan, which has now voiced that it would raise the Kashmir issue at the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA).

Last week,Chief Minister Sanaullah Zehri slammed the Indian Premier's remarks days after Baloch leader Bugti appreciated 'support' given to the Baloch people

He also accused Bugti of "getting funds from Indians". ( ANI