http://www.4-traders.com/news/News-Highlights-Top-Equities-Stories-of-the-Day--23073285/
142
14
Xinhua News Media To Raise Up to HK$42.9 Million Via Share Placement

Xinhua News Media Holdings Ltd. said Monday it is seeking to raise up to 42.9 million Hong Kong dollars via a share placement and will use the net proceeds for general working capital. (published 0033 GMT)

Macau Legend Development: Laurence Yuen Resigns as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer

Macau Legend Development Ltd., which operates casino and hotels, said Monday Laurence Yuen resigned as executive vice president and chief financial officer effective immediately. (published 0042 GMT)

Salesforce Joins Race for Artificially Intelligent Business Software

Salesforce.com Inc. said it would embed artificial intelligence technology into its software for salespeople, making it the latest in a gaggle of companies racing to enhance workplace tools with human-like abilities. The company will demonstrate the new software at its annual user conference next month in San Francisco. (published 2339 GMT Sunday)

Newcrest Offloads Stake in PNG Mine to Partner Harmony Gold

Newcrest Mining Ltd. said it has agreed to sell its 50% stake in a Papua New Guinea gold operation to partner Harmony Gold Mining Co. Ltd. . (published 2331 GMT Sunday)

Macquarie Continues to Forecast Steady Profit for Year

Macquarie Group Ltd. continues to anticipate a steady profit this financial year. (published 2322 GMT Sunday)

Koch Tries Its Hand at Carpet Cleaners

Koch Industries Inc., a conglomerate owned and run by conservative billionaire brothers Charles and David Koch, is making a push into the household-cleaner business, taking aim at industry stalwarts such as Procter & Gamble Co. and Clorox Co. (published 2320 GMT Sunday)

Synlait Plans Share Offer after Profit Triples

New Zealand dairy producer Synlait Milk Ltd. plans to issue 98 million New Zealand dollars of shares and list on the Australian stock exchange to help fund its next leg of growth after its annual profit more than tripled. (published 2158 GMT Sunday)

Rolls-Royce Holdings to Cut 200 More Management Roles

Rolls-Royce Holdings PLC is expanding job cuts in its prolonged battle to boost profitability at the struggling British engine maker. (published 2138 GMT Sunday)

Bayer's Monsanto Purchase Could Offset European Regulatory Concerns

Bayer AG's big push into the U.S. agrochemical market with its planned acquisition of Monsanto Co. could help it offset a growing problem on its home turf: increasingly stringent European regulation. (published 1341 GMT Sunday)

Samsung Unloads Shares in Tech Firms as Galaxy Note 7 Recall Starts to Burn

As it grapples with a massive global smartphone recall that is estimated to cost more than $1 billion, Samsung Electronics Co. is moving swiftly to sell stakes in other technology companies to raise cash. (published 1132 GMT Sunday)

General Mills Looks to Stir Up Yogurt Sales

General Mills Inc. has a mess in the dairy aisle. (published 0930 GMT Saturday)