http://www.dailytrust.com.ng/news/general/nlc-protests-nationwide-over-nasarawa-killings/160055.html
141
14
The Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC) yesterday held solidarity rallies nationwide over the killing of their two colleagues in Nasarawa state against deduction of salary.



The workers also used the opportunity to air their grievances affecting their welfare in their various states.In Abeokuta, the workers held inter-religious praying session for the repose of the dead in Nasarawa state and others where workers had lost

In Lokoja, the workers dressed in black attires condemned the killings, and appealed to the Kogi state government to as a matter of necessity settle the salaries of cleared workers that are yet to be paid.



In Kano, the workers said Nasarawa state government must take responsibility for the education and training of the children of the deceased and full medical bills of the injured workers, as well as immediate release of the deceased entitlements to their families.



In Katsina, the workers said they would resist any attempt by governors to reduce salaries in whatever guise noting that NLC will not fold its arm and see people wages are been toyed with by governors.



In Anambra, NLC said it’s wicked and inhuman for any state government to think of cutting down workers’ pay at this time of economic hardship, demanding that any governor who cannot pay workers’ salaries to resign.



In Benue, the workers teachers in the state were being owed for seven months while the local government workers have not received salaries for the past six months and the state workers owed variously between four and five months respectively.



But in Lafia, Nasarawa state, where the killings took place, the NLC President Ayuba Wabba yesterday announced the suspension of the national protest over the killings.



Wabba said the suspension was based on directives from the NHRC that is conducting investigation into the killings of the workers.



Wabba explained that one other reason for the suspension of the protest is decision of the state government stop deduction of workers salaries.



In Bauchi, the NLC and Trade Union Congress (TUC) decried the continued delays in the payments of outstanding arrears of workers’ salaries, gratuities and pensions.



In Imo, the workers rejected the state government policy of three working days, condemning the continued violation of February 9 agreement by government by paying salaries of workers without reference to labour/government committee.



In Lagos, the workers said the only way the Nigerian economy can be removed from recession, diversified and restructured is to motivate Nigerian workers and pay them very well.



In Kwara, the workers urged Governor Abdulfatah Ahmed to suspend his proposed plan to commence contributory pension scheme in the state when workers are being owed several months of salaries.

