http://www.dnaindia.com/india/report-karnataka-on-high-alert-after-panel-orders-further-release-cauvery-water-to-tamil-nadu-2256853
145
14
The Karnataka government has heightened the security at many sensitive areas of Bengaluru and the districts of Mandya, Mysuru, Hassan and Chikkamaglur on Monday when the Cauvery Supervisory committee ordered Karnataka to to release 3,000 cusecs of water per day from September 21 to September 30, to Tamil Nadu.

The decision came a day ahead of the crucial Supreme Court hearing on the Cauvery water dispute on Tuesday.

Karnataka has already released 1,50,000 cusecs of water to Tamil Nadu as per the Supreme Court verdict, according to the official figures.

Sources say that despite Karnataka Chief Secretary, Arun Jhadav informing the committee that the state is not in a capacity to release further water, the panel decided that the water should be released for next 10 days.

Meanwhile, wary of the tension and violent protests that rocked Karnataka last week, the authorities have deployed over 4,000 police personnel and teams of rapid action forces, CAR police across the state.

The Bengaluru City police also warned protestors against calling for shutdown on September 20.

The Bengaluru Police Commissioner, NS Megharik who convened an urgent meeting on Monday said that all the liquor shops in the state capital have been asked to remain shut from 6 am on Tuesday to 1 am on Wednesday to prevent riots and violence in the city.

The police has cautioned the netizens to not post any updates that may incite the passions of people. It further asked the public to share the pictures and photos of rioters with the police.

The police arrested Vatal Nagaraj, President, Federation of Karnataka organisations who has been spearheading the Cauvery agitation at Atibelle on Karnataka Tamil Nadu border on Monday morning. The protestors were trying to block the Karnataka Tamil Nadu highway.

In the tense Mandya town, a farmer's protest led by Cauvery Protection group president, Made Gowda said that the Karnataka government should immediately release compensation to the affected community and demanded a compensation of Rs 25,000 per acre of land for each farmer.

Chief Minister, Siddaramaiah and his several colleagues were meanwhile busy in offering prayers for a favourable decision on Cauvery water dispute.