http://www.khmertimeskh.com/news/29712/koreans-denounce-nuclear-tests/
141
14
About 45 South Korean nationals gathered outside the South Korean Association of Cambodia office in Phnom Penh yesterday afternoon to protest against North Korea’s latest nuclear test.



Chairman Kim Hyun Sick said the protesters represented the almost 20,000 South Koreans living in Cambodia and demanded that the North Korean government end its weapons testing, destroy its stockpiles of nuclear weapons and embrace dialogue with the international community.



“Many times, the North Korean government has tried to conduct war activities on the Korean Peninsula. So now so we want North Korea to please stop this kind of war activities,” he said.



“These people [protesters] and other members of the South Korean Association in Cambodia come here to demand the North Korean government stop and destroy its nuclear weapons right now,” Mr. Kim said, adding the North Korean government should focus on taking care of its people’s needs.



An accompanying press release, which branded the latest nuclear test “a reckless provocation,” said that if the isolated hermit kingdom continued with such tests, it would be punished and further ostracized by the international community.



“North Korea has to stop and destroy all its nuclear weapons and missiles immediately, perfectly and irreversibly,” the statement demanded.



On Monday, the Foreign Affairs Ministry issued a statement which also objected to the recent test.



“It’s clearly in violation of the relevant United Nation Security Council resolutions and could further deteriorate the already volatile situation in the Korean Peninsula,” the statement said.



It added that Cambodia is committed to the denuclearization of the peninsula and also strongly called on the North Korean government to fully respect the UN’s decision and urged North Korea to comply with all concerned parties to resolve tensions through peaceful negotiations.



The late King Father Norodom Sihanouk lived intermittently in the North Korean capital Pyongyang in the 1970s and 1980s after he was deposed in the 1970 coup.



He spoke fondly of the first North Korean leader and in 1991 arranged for an embassy in a royal villa in Phnom Penh – now near Prime Minister Hun Sen’s house. As well as opening a museum and tourist attraction earlier this year in Siem Reap City, a string of restaurants in the city and in Phnom Penh generate much needed funds that are channeled back to the country.