http://m.themalaymailonline.com/malaysia/article/hotline-jais-app-may-encourage-spying-mp-says
145
14
‘Hotline Jais’ app may encourage spying, MP says

Share this article

DAP lawmaker Zairil Khir Johari said that Prophet Muhammad considered gossiping to be more sinful than adultery. — Picture by Yusof Mat IsaKUALA LUMPUR, Oct 11 — DAP lawmaker Zairil Khir Johari expressed concern today that the Selangor religious authorities’ new mobile app could lead to spying on others’ personal sins, a forbidden act according to the Quran.

The Bukit Bendera MP cited verse 12 of the Surah al-Hujurat that prohibits “spying” to look for one’s wrongs and gossiping.

He also pointed out that according to the Perlis guidelines on khalwat arrests, a complainant will be rejected if the complaint is based on “tajassus” (spying on one’s sins).

“In other words, information cannot be obtained from ‘tajassus’,” Zairil said in a statement, adding that such information should be based only on things like witnessing the religious offence from outside one’s house or upon hearing a loud noise.

The Selangor Islamic Religious Department’s (Jais) “Hotline Jais” app, which enables the public to send the authorities photographs of suspected Shariah offences being committed, has raised concern among human rights lawyers, who said it could encourage vigilantism.

The authorities frequently conduct khalwat raids against Muslims suspected of being in close proximity with someone of the opposite sex who’s not their spouse, even raiding some homes.

Zairil said today that Prophet Muhammad considered gossiping to be more sinful than adultery.

“If gossiping is such a huge sin, will the app enable people to report the aunties and uncles who love to gossip at coffee shops?” he questioned.

He added that there are bigger problems in society than personal sins, citing illegal logging in Kelantan, river pollution that disrupted water supply in Selangor, domestic violence, and corruption.

“I’m certain that Islam does not encourage the obsession of exposing other people’s personal sins, unless we see it with our own eyes. If it’s done quietly, it’s actually a sin for us to spy on them,” said Zairil.