http://www.khmertimeskh.com/news/29206/workers-continue-their----illegal----protest/
141
14
The Labor Ministry was beset by protesting workers from the Dongdu Textile factory in Phnom Penh’s Dangkor district again yesterday, with workers repeatedly asking the ministry to intervene and reinstate the nearly 800 employees who had been fired last month for protesting against moribund working conditions.



The workers submitted another petition to the minister and Labor Ministry officials claimed to be working on the case. But the ministry spokesman said they would handle the issue internally and move it to the Arbitration Council if they were unable to find a resolution – apparently unaware that the case was already decided by the Arbitration Council and the workers were protesting because the company was ignoring their orders.



Heng Sour, a spokesman for the Labor Ministry, threatened the workers and told them that any protest before an Arbitration Council decision was released would be “illegal.”



He said the department of labor disputes at the ministry would work to solve the dispute and meet with the relevant parties to hear each side out.



“When the Arbitration Council is solving the case and the dispute turns into demonstrations, the demonstrations are illegal and will undermine the Committee for the Settlement of Strikes and Demonstration’s efforts and all of the Labor Ministry’s efforts to solve the case,” he said.



Pav Sina, president of the Collective Union of Movement of Workers (CUMW), said yesterday that the workers gathered in front of the ministry because they believed their case was not being taken seriously enough.



“The ministry asked if they were fired, but the workers said they had already been fired. So that is why they stand here in front of the ministry. To affirm this case,” he said.



He added that he told the workers that Labor Minister Ith Samheng would not abandon them and hoped the group would receive positive news today and return to work.



The workers were fired for demanding better conditions in the factory, Mr. Sina said.



“I think the ministry should put pressure on the company to solve the problem and reinstate all of the workers. The company should pay the workers’ wages since they were fired,” he said, adding that they had all been fired “illegally.”



Mr. Sina said the protests would continue every day until a solution was found, even threatening to take the dispute to Prime Minister Hun Sen if they did not get a response from the Labor Ministry.



A representative from the Labor Ministry who met with the workers yesterday said they were planning to invite the workers, company representatives and union officials to the ministry for a meeting to solve the issue at 9am today.



Suth Chet, an official at the CUMW, said the protests have been ongoing for more than a month and will continue if the ministry continues to take its time in dealing with the situation.



“The workers at Dongdu Textile factory protested to demand better working conditions for almost one month, and the factory fired all of the protesters.



“The employer did not respect the Arbitration Council, which ordered the company to accept the workers back, and that is why the workers decided to come seek help from the minister,” he said.



Dongdu Textile factory could not be reached for comment yesterday.