http://www.wsj.com/articles/chinese-mining-company-says-protest-disrupting-peru-mine-operation-1477080926
141
14
LIMA, Peru--Chinese-owned mining company MMG Ltd. said Friday that it was running out of supplies to operate its massive Las Bambas copper mine in Peru as protesters block roads.

In a statement, MMG’s chief executive, Andrew Michelmore, warned that the demonstrations could derail its scheduled copper shipments and undermine Peru’s business-friendly investment climate.

“Currently, the local community roads are blocked and the supplies to operate are about to run out,” he said. “This could negatively affect not only our reputation but Peru’s international reputation with investors.”

The protests are the latest to hit Peru’s key mining sector, which is one of the world’s top producers of copper, gold and silver. MMG says Las Bambas, which has helped drive Peru’s robust economic growth since it began production late last year, will be one of the world’s biggest copper mines when it reaches full capacity. It is expected to produce about 400,000 tons of copper annually.

The unrest is one of the first major social conflicts since President Pedro Pablo Kuczynski took office on July 28. His approval rating fell eight points this month to 55%, impacted by the protests and a graft scandal involving an adviser.

The unrest is one of the first major social conflicts since President Pedro Pablo Kuczynski took office on July 28. Political analysts say it will be a test of his government’s ability to resolve opposition to mining and oil development by residents in the Andes and Amazon concerned about industry pollution. A number of large mine projects have been shelved in recent years due to community opposition.

Demonstrations over the $7.4 billion Las Bambas mine flared up after a consortium led by MMG purchased the project in 2014 from Glencore, which was forced to sell it as a condition for its merger with Xstrata.

The original plan for Las Bambas, located more than 13,000 feet above sea level in the southern Andes, called for building a pipeline to transport copper concentrates to a nearby operation owned by Glencore. That plan was scrapped with the change in ownership, resulting in an increase in traffic on rural roads by large trucks carrying minerals.

Local residents and officials have said they weren’t consulted about the change, and are upset with the noise and dust from the increased traffic. Last year, the government declared a state of emergency in the area after three people were killed during protests.

Another person was killed and 20 police officers injured last week when police clashed with protesters to clear a road. Interior Minister Carlos Basombrio said two police colonels broke procedure when they ordered the operation.

Mr. Kuczynski, a 78-year-old former Wall Street banker, has promised to resolve social conflicts by increasing spending on infrastructure and reducing poverty in poor rural zones where mines are located. Las Bambas is located in one of Peru’s poorest regions, where the mainly indigenous population relies on farming.

“The local residents have legitimate concerns,” Mr. Kuczynski said this week of the protests, estimating that some 500 trucks are on the local roads daily. “No one should be surprised that there is unrest in the zone.”

The government’s efforts to restart talks with protest leaders have so far failed. Earlier this week, a delegation led by the mines and energy minister was turned back by residents.

Write to Ryan Dube at ryan.dube@dowjones.com