http://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/mel-gibson-expecting-ninth-child-8853452
311
3
Mel Gibson is set to become a dad for the ninth time.

The American actor and his girlfriend, 26-year-old Rosalind Ross, will welcome their first child together early next year, his spokesperson confirmed.

The pair have been dating for two years.

A source told People: "Mel loves being a dad and he and Rose can't wait to be parents together. The last two years have been some of his happiest years he's ever had."

Getty Mel and Rosalind will welcome their first child together early next year

While it will be equestrian vaulter Rosalind's first child, it will be the Lethal Weapon star's ninth.

Another source added to the magazine: “She has her own life, but also seems to enjoy Mel’s … They are very much on the same page.”

Mel shares seven children, who range in age from 17 to 36, with ex-wife Robyn Moore who he was married to for almost 30 years.

The pair separated in 2006 and Robyn filed for divorce in April 2009, citing irreconcilable differences.

It will be Rosalind's first child

Because they did not have a prenuptial agreement she was awarded $425 million (£275 million), which was half Gibson's fortune and at the time the biggest divorce settlement in Hollywood history.

He also welcomed a daughter called Lucia with ex-girlfriend Oksana Grigorieva in 2009.

Meanwhile, the 60-year-old actor previously admitted he has "done a lot of work" on himself in the last decade.

WireImage Mel has seven kids with his ex-wife and one with ex-girlfriend Oksana

Starring role: Mel in Lethal Weapon

He said: "I've done a lot of work on myself these last 10 years. I've deliberately kept a low profile. I didn't want to just do the celebrity rehab thing for two weeks, declare myself cured and then screw up again.

"I think the best way somebody can show they're sorry is to fix themselves and that's what I've been doing and I'm just happy to be here. He who tries, gets. If you try, you get somewhere."

When asked what he has learned from his mistakes, he added: "I've learned a lot of things, like phone etiquette ... how to use my 'indoor voice' ... and if you're going to drink, don't talk. Have a designated talker. Nobody has ever said to a drunk person, 'That's a brilliant thought! You need to share that with the world!'"