http://www.thenational.scot/news/students-protest-at-quality-drop-in-glasgow-school-of-art-courses.24091
141
14
Students protest at 'quality drop' in Glasgow School of Art courses

If you would prefer unlimited access, please support our journalism with a website subscription. Subscribe today for just £3.99 a month.

Registered users can read up to 10 articles for free each month.

Will fin breid, barley-bree an paintit room. Whan MacLean meets wi's friens in Springburn. Aa thae roses an geeans will turn tae blume. An a black laud frae yont Nyanga. Dings the fell gallows o the burghers doun.

Black an white ane-til-ither mairriet. Mak the vile barracks o thair maisters bare. Sae come aa ye at hame wi freedom. Never heed whit the houdies croak for Doom. In yer hous aa the bairns o Aidam.

Tak the road an seek ither loanins. Wi thair ill-ploys tae sport an play. Nae mair will our bonnie callants. Merch tae war whan our braggarts crousely craw. Nor wee weans frae pitheid an clachan. Murn the ships sailin doun the Broomielaw. Broken faimilies in launs we've hairriet. Will curse 'Scotlan the Brave' nae mair, nae mair.

Roch the win i the clear day's dawin. Blaws the clouds heilster-gowdie owre the bay. But thair's mair nor a roch win blawin. Thro the Great Glen o the warl the day. It's a thocht that wad gar our rottans. Aa thae rogues that gang gallus fresh an gay.

GLASGOW School of Art students took to the streets yesterday morning to attack the world-famous school’s management.

GLASGOW School of Art students took to the streets yesterday morning to attack the world-famous school’s management.

The students say the school is chasing numbers at the expense of the quality of education being offered. A 25 per cent increase in the number of graduates attending has not been met by an increase in facilities or staff, the protesters say, leaving them without desks and access to technicians.

“We’re paying £50 a day for these facilities, and we can’t use them,” said sculpture and environmental art student, Lola Morgan, 21.

Lucy Lamort, 21, also studying sculpture and environmental art said: “They’re not living up to the reputation that they have. I feel like I haven’t learned anything since I’ve been here because there’s not enough space to actually go in and do anything.”

“This is only option we have,” said Sam Gordon, 18, an architecture student. “They’re ignoring us. This is the only thing that’ll get us attention.”

“They’re treating it like a brand rather than a university,” said Jessica Wright, 18, a fellow architect.

A spokesperson for The Glasgow School of Art said: “We encourage our students to be engaged and we have a number of more formal routes than the one chosen for raising concerns and for working constructively with us in both defining and implementing change, which we believe will enhance the student experience.

“Our planned growth in student numbers, which is almost complete, is being met with significant strategic investment in our campus, in our staffing and resources, not least the restoration of the Mackintosh Building and the Stow Building as a new home for the School of Fine Art.”

The school’s director Professor Tom Binns declined to speak to protesters. He had been filmed in front of them for the BBC’s Reporting Scotland, but retreated back into the building as soon as he could.