http://www.thestar.com.my/news/nation/2016/09/15/chef-jailed-five-months-for-blocking-johor-sultans-convoy/
141
14
Compiled by ADRIAN CHAN and CLARISSA CHUNG

A WOMAN was sentenced to five months’ jail for obstructing the Sultan of Johor’s convoy last week, reported Kosmo!.

Nur Haslinda Abdullah, 29, pleaded guilty to the charge of obstructing civil servants from performing their duties in Jalan Tebrau, Johor Baru, at 4.30pm last Friday.

Nur Haslinda, who is a chef, had been driving towards Kota Tinggi when the police directed her to move her car to the side of the road as the Sultan’s convoy was passing.

However, she did not follow the police’s directive. The mother of two was charged under Section 186 of the Penal Code, which carries a jail term of up to two years or a RM10,000 fine.

Later, at another court, she also pleaded guilty to reckless driving and was sentenced to a day in jail and a RM5,000 fine.

> Sinar Harian reported that a Form One student was found drowned in the Sungai Jarum water lock in Banting, Selangor, after he fell in while fishing with his three friends.

The body of Lau Peng An was recovered at 11.20am on Tuesday.

Mazlan Sulaiman, who was also fishing with his children, said he had spotted the boys inside the fenced area around the lock.

“Suddenly, they slipped. I ran towards them but only managed to hold onto one of the boys. Lau’s friends tried to save him using their fishing line but it broke,” he said.

Banting Fire and Rescue Department chief Mohd Jaslizad Jalil said one of Lau’s friends also nearly drowned but was saved by Mazlan.

> Kosmo! reported that a man stumbled on skeletal remains in a rubber plantation some 1.5km off the main road in Marang.

The remains, which were scattered on the ground near a blue bicycle, were found clothed in a dark blue T-shirt, a white skullcap or kopiah and a pair of black slippers.

The remains were sent to the Sultanah Nur Zahirah Hospital in Kuala Terengganu for a post-mortem.

Found in translation is compiled from the vernacular newspapers (Bahasa Malaysia, Chinese and Tamil dailies). As such, stories are grouped according to the respective language/medium. Where a paragraph begins with a >, it denotes a separate news item.