http://nation.com.pk/karachi/11-Oct-2016/cm-launches-it-cell-to-monitor-uplift-schemes
141
14
KARACHI - Sindh Chief Minister Syed Murad Ali Shah has said that he has been giving special attention to development of the province, and as a part of that constituency-wise development data is being compiled to avoid duplication of a scheme and ensure its timely completion.



He made these remarks while inaugurating Information Technology Cell (ITC) here at the CM House on Monday.



Briefing the chief minister, Principal Secretary to the CM Naveed Kamran Baloch said that the newly-established ITC would work as a data cell where constituency-wise record of development schemes would be maintained right from date of their launch, including release of funds, date of completion, executing authority and project director.



Murad noted that the maintenance of such record would be helpful in avoiding duplication of schemes.



“The duplication, particularly of schools, has remained an issue; this is why the education department has declared over 2000 schools unviable,” he added.

He said it would also be easy for the government to assess requirement of a scheme in a particular constituency when the management system would be made operational.

The secretary said that the system was operational but final touches were required.



The CM reminded him that this was the computer age and the entire information is available at a single click on mobile phone, ipad or a laptop.



"This is what I do," he said and added he maintained the record of provincial budget, development portfolio, releases, utilisation and issues, if any, in his ipad.



“Now I want to further divide it constituency-wise so that the development data of a smallest unit [constituency] could be compiled," he said and added, “It would help the government to provide facilities to people of this province in the areas where they live.

”

The principal secretary told the chief minister that the scheme had been completed at Rs1.

6 million.

“It has a separate server and will be accessible to the concerned MPAs and officers,” he informed.



Murad directed his principal secretary to keep record of each and every meeting he held, and also maintain the record of directives he issued from time to time in the cell so that these could also be followed accordingly.



CM reviews security

measures for Muharram

Sindh Chief Minister Syed Murad Ali Shah has issued directives for maintaining foolproof security during the 9th and 10th of Moharram.



He was presiding over a meeting held here at the CM House on Monday to review the security measures for majalis and processions.



The meeting was attended by Advisor to CM on Law Murtaza Wahab, Chief Secretary Siddique Memon, IG Police AD Khwaja, Additional IG Karachi Mushtaq Maher, Home Secretary and others.



IG Police AD Khawaja said that on 9th Moharram there would be 528 majalis, including 39 of Sunnis.



“Similarly on 10th Moharram, there would be 403 majalis, including 23 to be held by Sunnis,” he informed.



Giving further details, he said there would be 279 processions on 9th and 289 on 10th in the city.



The IG said that over all a force of 25,674, including 22381 policemen, 389 lady police, 2778 razakars, would be deployed to maintain peace on 10th.



Giving details of the 9th Moharram procession, the IG police said that a procession would be taken out from Bab-e-Fatima Imambargah at 8am and will head towards District East from Teen Talwar.

“The route of procession from Babe Fatima Imambargah via Liaquatabad No 10 would take u-turn towards Teen Hatti, Liaquatabad Dak Khana, Teen Hatti, Jahangir Road - Shah-e-Najaf Imam Bargah, Martin Quarters, Jamia Binori, Gru Mandar, Bahaduryar Jung Road, Soldier Bazaar and Nishtar Park where it would merge into the main procession,” he elaborated.

He further said that the main procession would start from Nishtar Park at around 12 at noon.



“On its route lie Nishter Park, Purani Nomasih, Saddar Empress Market, Regal Chowk, MA Jinnah Road- Denso Hall- Denso Hall, Bolton Market, Plastic Market and Hussainian Iranian Imambargah,” he informed.



The mourners would oofer Zohrian prayers at Ali Raza Imam Bargah at MA Jinnah Road and would disperse at Hussainian Iranian Kharadar.



He said that the 10th Moharram procession would start from Nishtar Park at 10 am.

“Its route would pass through Nishtar Park, Puurani Numaish, Saddar Empress Market, Regal Chowk, MA Jinnah Road, Denso Sall, Bolton Market, Plastic Market and Hussainian Iranian Imambargah,” he informed.



“The mourners would offer Zohrain prayers at Tibet Center at 1.

30pm, and will disperse at 6pm,” he added.



He said that there were four platoons of reserve force which would be deployed at Nishter Park, Numaish Chowrangi, Imambargah Ali Raza, Capri Cinema, Saddar Dawakhana, Empress Market, Regal Chowk, Tibet Center, Saeed Manzil, Radio Pakistan, Eidgah Market, Light House, Bolton Market, Bara Imambargah, Baghdadi, Khradar and Hussainian Iranina Imambargah.

