http://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/3479090/posts
141
14
Skip to comments.

China Blockades Streets Around Military Building As Hundreds Protest In Capital

OANN - One America News Network ^ | 10/11/2016 | Natalie Thomas, Thomas Peter, Paul Carsten, Ben Blanchard

Posted on by tekrat

Police in the Chinese capital on Tuesday blocked off streets near a major military building, as hundreds of people wearing green camouflage uniforms chanted and waved national flags to protest against the loss of their posts.

China last year announced it would cut troop levels by 300,000, targeting the bulk of the reductions by the end of 2017, as it seeks to spend more money on high-tech weapons for its navy and air force.

Tens of thousands of protests take place in China every year, triggered by grievances over corruption, pollution, illegal land grabs and other factors, unnerving the stability-obsessed ruling Communist Party.



(Excerpt) Read more at oann.com ...

TOPICS:

Foreign Affairs

News/Current Events

KEYWORDS:

china

corruption

protest





To: tekrat

300k. Dont worry guys. The way our govt is being run you might be called back sooner than you think.



by 2 posted onby dp0622 (IThe only thing an upper crust conservative hates more than a liberal is a middle class conservative)

To: dp0622

China is imploding on itself trying to run free enterprise facade in a totalitarian regime, just like our current political structure. It is imploding as we speak as evidenced by my anecdotal front row seat in that I am getting constant e-mails from places I used to have make my prototype pieces but have found better and more reliable sources now on shore. I discovered that by doing business with like minded sources who understand the power of technology in manufacturing that we can beat them at their own game. Our problem is that our government is standing in the way of that manufacturing transformation.



by 3 posted onby mazda77 (The solution: Vote Trump)

To: mazda77

“Our problem is that our government is standing in the way of that manufacturing transformation.” When I was still employed by General Dynamics a recent college graduate from one of the four (city, county, state and federal) EPA’s came to “inspect” our ultra-clean, ridiculously-green facility. She obviously had never been in a manufacturing plant before. She was intimidated by the machines chunking and clacking. She was totally paranoid that we were doing something horrible and it was her job to stop us from killing the whales and baby seals. The plant manager, the equivalent of a vice president, ran around himself in a literal panic to get her everything she asked for. It was ludicrous to witness how frightened he was because this crazy kid could literally shut us down and cost the company millions in award fees for on-time performance. He collapsed in his office chair when she finally left. We probably spent $100k dollars polishing the brass every time one of those inspections occurred. That is just one tiny example of how the government stops companies from working or making a profit.



To: mazda77

wow. That was good. Sounds like you have a fascinating job. Yeah, we’ve gone from “The Jungle” to OUTRAGEOUS regulations and union payouts.



by 5 posted onby dp0622 (IThe only thing an upper crust conservative hates more than a liberal is a middle class conservative)

To: Gen.Blather

I’ve spent the last 10 years running around doing the same thing for companies with the FDA. I’m burnt out and thinking hard of trying a different industry. Doubt it’ll be much different, but you get tired of having the same fights.



To: tekrat

unnerving the stability-obsessed ruling Communist Party. A book I read on China recently said that the quest to maintain stability and order is a theme that goes far back into Chinese history. Periodically this breaks down and there is a massive change but they are always trying to avoid getting to this point. Despite the apparent break with the past the current regime continues with many of the same themes that have always been part of Chinese civilization.



To: dp0622

It is noteworthy. A quick search indicates that is over 10%.



by 8 posted onby King Moonracer (Bad lighting and cheap fabric, that's how you sell clothing.....)

To: King Moonracer

wow. I dont even know the size of ours.



by 9 posted onby dp0622 (IThe only thing an upper crust conservative hates more than a liberal is a middle class conservative)

Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works.

FreeRepublic , LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794

FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson