http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/720916/Calais-migrant-protest-banned-activists-police
141
14
GETTY A pro-migrant protest in Calais has been banned after violence clashes between activists and police

Pas-de-Calais prefecture officials have banned the demonstration on grounds it posed a possible “risk to public order” and would encourage aggressive behaviour. The ban includes all protests against the imminent dismantlement of the Calais ‘Jungle’ refugee camp, which could happen as early as next week. Friday’s rally had been organised by the International Coalition of Undocumented People and Migrants (CISPM), a pro-immigrant charity based at the Calais camp, and was due to kick off in the city centre, a location which would have drawn thousands to join the protest.

This is the second time that local officials cancelled a CISPM-led demonstration - on October 1, another mass meeting had been organised by the charity. Its members, ignoring the ban, sent hundreds of Parisian protestors to Calais: more than 200 people were stopped in their tracks and ordered to head back to the capital by the police. But later that afternoon, hundreds of pro-migrant militants decided to go ahead with the protest despite the ban, triggering an outbreak of violence.

GETTY Police clashing with refugees in the Calais migrant 'Jungle' camp earlier this year

Scores of people were wounded – including five police officers and a photographer – during the three-hour standoff between the migrants, the demonstrators, and the police.

Clashes between far-left and extreme-right militants will only exacerbate existing tensions Calais prefecture

The Calais prefecture warned that Friday’s protest could also spin into bloodshed and should therefore be banned. The prefecture said: “Clashes between far-left and extreme-right militants will only exacerbate existing tensions over the migrant crisis.” Plans to fully dismantle the makeshift ‘Jungle’ camp and rehouse migrants in reception centres across France have also sparked fury among charity workers, who asked a court to block the imminent closure of the camp this morning.

GETTY Migrants demonstrate on February 29, 2016, during the dismantling of half of the 'Jungle' camp

Jungle Migrant Camp in protests Mon, October 3, 2016 Up to 10,000 migrants are now living at the camp and are using desperate and violent measures to try and board trucks heading for the UK. Play slideshow REUTERS 1 of 24 Demonstrators protest near the area called the

GETTY French anti-riot police clashing with migrant protesters earlier this month