http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/balochistan-pakistan-chemical-weapons-pm-modi-human-rights/1/751611.html
141
14
Highlights 1 Pak Army using chemicals to poison water supply in Balochistan, claim activists.

2 Over 50 civilians killed by Pak Army, said a tribal leader.

3 Activists sought international intervention in Balochistan.

Rattled by Prime Minister Narendra Modi's mention of Balochistan in his Independence Day speech, Pakistan seems to have resorted to take revenge from its own citizens.

The Pakistan Army have intensified their military operations against Baloch nationalists and freedom fighters.

According to Balochistan's activist ground report, the Pakistan Army has resorted to snatch, kill and dump tactics for Baloch freedom fighters and civilians. The activists are alleging that the Army is also using certain chemicals to poison their water supply and punish them.

Baloch activists told India Today that the Pakistan Army intensified their operations after Prime Minister Modi's Independence Day speech from the ramparts of the Red Fort.

"Their aim is to break the morale of the Baloch activists, enthused about the world talking about their plight for the first time," a Baloch activist told India Today.

Activists also claim the the Army has gouged out the eyes of some of the activists to teach them a lesson.

The Bolan area of Balochistan reportedly bore the brunt of Pakistan Army's anger.

Pakistani Army killed over 50 people in Balochistan in last two weeks, claimed activists.

'ABDUCTION, KILLING INCREASED'

Army's brutality in Balochistan is nothing new but its scale is said to have gone up after PM Modi's speech from the Red Fort in New Delhi. Large number of men were said to have been abducted from Kachchi Bolan, Quetta, Dera Bugti, Mastang, Awaran and other areas of Balochistan.

Pakistani Army has allegedly been abducting villagers from Balochistan.

Activists said that abducted men were being dumped after a few days of their disappearance. Every day 4-5 dead bodies were being recovered from these areas.

"After PM Modi's speech in favour of the people of Balochistan, more than 50 civilians have been killed in Dera Bugti district alone. More than 150 Balochs have been abducted. No one knows their whereabouts. We don't know whether they are dead or alive," said Sardar Meer Bakhtiyar Khan Domki, the head of Domki tribe and a prominent Baloch activist.

Children are among the worst sufferers of human rights abuse in Balochistan.

'ARMY TOOK AWAY EVERY SINGLE MAN'

In one case, Pakistani Army allegedly rounded up and took away all the men from a village in Kachchi Bolan area. Baloch activists called for UN's intervention in the matter.

"About 200 Balochs live in 35 houses of this village. Two days ago, Pakistani Army personnel came here. They rounded up all the men and male children, nearly 40 in number, and took them away. Our pleas and cries went unheeded. Now, we are all women left in this village. We have no idea about our husbands and children," said a woman of the affected village.

Army took away all male members of a village in Balochistan, claimed local women.

INDIA EXPRESSES CONCERN

Reacting to the reports of increase in atrocities on Baloch people by Pakistani Army, MEA spokesperson Vikas Swaroop expressed concerns on Friday. He said that it was a matter of concern for India that the incidents of abduction and killing of civilians had increased Balochistan after PM Modi raised the issue of human rights abuse.

This man was among those, activists alleged, abducted by Pakistani Army.

There have been several incidents of protests against the Pakistani establishment for violation of human rights in Balochistan. Several eminent Baloch personalities have expressed concerns and sought international support. Last week, some Baloch living in Leipzig city of Germany staged a protest against Pakistan's government. The protesters waved Indian flag.

ALSO READ:

Human rights violated, natural resources exploited: All you need to know about the Balochistan issue

Baloch protesters come out on streets in Germany, raise slogans against Pakistan, wave Indian Tricolour

Pakistan army committing 'tsunami of rights violations': Top Baloch leader

Syrian gas attack near Damascus kills 1,300, say opposition groups

