http://nation.com.pk/lahore/05-Sep-2016/rape-on-rise-in-punjab
141
14
LAHORE - The provincial government is apparently unable to control crimes against women in the most populous province of Pakistan.

New data from the provincial police department reveals the rape and gang-rape cases are on the rise across Punjab.



As per official statistics, at least 1516 rape cases were registered with the provincial police during the first six months of this year, as compared to 1271 such cases reported in the corresponding period in 2015.

Similarly, the police registered at least 106 cases of gang-rape from January to June this year against 100 such cases reported during the same period last year.



The new report reveals that at least eight incidents of rape took place every day in the province during the first six month of this year.

The rape and gang-rape incidents committed during house robberies are not mentioned in the police record.

Sources in the investigation police say the police deliberately hush up such cases to “protect” the victim family from social disgrace.



The province also witnesses a considerable surge in the overall incidents of crimes this year.

The police reported at least 201,893 cases of crimes during the first six months of this year as compared to 194,552 cases reported during the same period last year.



Out of total 1516 rape cases reported since January, at least 285 were cancelled, and 251 cases are still being investigated.

The investigators have submitted the challans of 980 cases in courts so far.

The police had cancelled at least 240 cases of rape out of total 1271 cases registered from January to June in 2015.

The police had challaned the suspects in only 749 cases during the previous year.



Most of the rape cases were reported in Rahim Yar Khan, Faisalabad, Bahawalnagar, Sheikhupura, Muzaffargarh, Kasur, Khanewal, Chiniot, Lahore, Layyah, and Mandi Bahauddin districts.



A senior police investigator attributed the rise in rape cases to the policy of “free and immediate” registration of crime cases involving women and children as victims.

However, rights activists say that many rape cases go unreported as poor victims don’t approach police against the influential suspects.



During the first six months of this year, the provincial police reported at least 210,839 cases of crime of different nature.

At least 2108 cases of murder, 6849 of kidnapping, and 17 cases of abduction for ransom were reported from January to June 2016.

During the same period, at least 852 cases of dacoity, 6835 of robbery, 1882 of motor vehicle snatching, 8073 of motor vehicle theft, and 5805 cases of burglary were also registered with the Punjab police.



As a matter of fact, only a few rape victims dare to report to police while many of the assaulted women and children prefer to keep mum over the crimes either because of their family background or due to influential perpetrators.



Early last month, a rape victim attempted self-immolation outside the Punjab Assembly to protest against police for protecting the criminals.

The resident of Arifwala reached Lahore and tried to take the extreme step in order to get noticed.



A relative of the victim told reporters that the local police were deliberately delaying arrest of the rapists.

The girl set herself on fire by sprinkling petrol outside Punjab Assembly building but some passersby intervened quickly and foiled the suicide attempt.

The victim was shifted to hospital with minor burns.



Some police investigators say they believe porn movies as the main reason behind many of the rape incidents in which poor teenagers were assaulted especially in the far-flung areas.

They say that many of the accused interrogated in connection with rape cases confessed that they had committed the crimes after repeatedly watching porn.



In June 2014, on the orders of Punjab IGP Mushtaq Ahmed, the DNA test in each rape case had been made compulsory in order to ensure transparent investigations and to bring the culprits to justice.



The annual police report 2014 stated that one female was assaulted sexually after every three hours and 40 minutes while one gang-rape incident occurred after every 45 hours and 38 minutes in 2013 in the most populated Punjab province.

Of 2,576 rape incidents reported in 2014, the victims in 167 cases were children.



A teenage girl who was allegedly gang-raped at a hotel in Lahore denied the allegations during the prosecution.

Early this year, the city police arrested six men for raping the 15-year-old girl in a hotel room following a police raid on the Upper Mall.



The suspects allegedly had abducted the 15-year-old girl from Multan Road and took her to a guesthouse on The Mall where they subjected her to gang-rape.

They left the girl unconscious in a hotel room and informed her family through a text message on a cell phone.

However, the victim at some later stage denied the rape allegations before a local court and stated that she had friendship with the prime suspect.

The case had made headlines in the media.



Legal experts say that the existing criminal justice system discourages rape victims and benefits perpetrators only.

The decision in a rape case could take seven to 10 years and ultimately it ends with acquittal of the accused, they argue.



If a victim is bold enough to fight the case to its logical end, she has to do it on her own as the elite civil society leaves her soon and the media gets other cases to report instead of following up her case.

A rape victim has to endure hardships in all forms and from everyone starting from a policeman to a lower court.

