http://www.srilankasource.com/index.php/sid/248132347
142
14
World leaders gather in Jerusalem to attend Shimon Peres' funeral

Sri Lanka Source Friday 30th September, 2016

• Former Israeli Prime Minister Shimon Peres funeral in Jerusalem

• Barack Obama to attend Peres' funeral

• Architect of Israel-Palestine peace process Shimon Peres laid to rest

JERUSALEM, Israel - Leaders from across the globe are gathering in Jerusalem to pay their last respect to former Israeli prime minister Shimon Peres who passed away on September 28, 2016 - two weeks after suffering a major stroke.

Unprecedented security arrangements have been put in place to host the largest gathering of its kind in the last 20 years in Israel.

The funeral ceremony, which is being closely guarded by close to 8,000 security personnel, is being attended by leaders from over 70 countries. The ceremony will be attended by Britain's Prince Charles, Former U.K. Prime Minister Tony Blair, French President Francois Hollande, German President Joachim Gauc and other world leaders.

U.S. President Barack Obama will also be addressing the gathering and paying homage to Peres. The U.S. delegation will also include former President Bill Clinton and Secretary of State John Kerry.

Joining the other world leader will be Palestinian President Mahmud Abbas who will be visiting Israel for the first time since 2010.

The visit of Abbas, according to the Palestinian officials quoted in news reports, will send a strong message to the Israeli society that Palestinian are for peace and appreciate the efforts of peaceful men like Shimon Peres.

However, Palestinian militant group Hamas has asked Abbas to reconsider his decision to participate in the ceremony.

Peres was one of the leading figures in the Israel-Palestine peace process. He was awarded the 1994 Nobel Peace Prize along with late Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat and former Israeli Prime Minister late Yitzhak Rabin for signing the Oslo Accord and bringing into practice the two-state solution.

Considered as the founder of Israel's technology sector, he is also the architect of Israel's secret nuclear programme in 1950s and 1960s.

He was 93-years-old.