http://thezimbabwemail.com/zimbabwe-13395-chinotimba-mocks-wife-snatcher-maridadi.html
141
14
Buhera South MP Joseph Chinotimba (Zanu PF) yesterday accused Mabvuku-Tafara MP James Maridadi (MDC-T) of being in the habit of snatching other people’s wives before he was made to withdraw his allegations.

by XOLISANI NCUBE



Chinotimba said this while responding to a claim by Maridadi the Buhera South legislator was corrupt when he was debating a motion on vagrants which had been introduced into the National Assembly by Buhera Central MP Ronald Muderedzwa (Zanu PF).

“On a point of order, Madam Speaker, if we look at the way we have traversed in our lives, this honourable MP fell in love with a married woman and flew to America (USA). So this married woman left her family and life is much better than that. I was a security guard, but he was . . . making love to married women and today he is talking nonsense here,” Chinotimba said, before acting Speaker Melody Dziva ordered him to withdraw his comments.

“I withdraw my words on Honourable Maridadi that he had a relationship with a married woman,” Chinotimba stated.

Meanwhile, a Zanu PF MP said government should regulate the establishment of new political parties, claiming this was affecting the county’s economic performance.

Debating on the Presidential speech, Zhombe MP Daniel MacKenzie Ncube said the continued sprouting of political parties was affecting economic development and called for the enactment of a law to regulate the establishment of new political groups.

“We cannot be contesting for political power while we are ignoring economic fundamentals. It is my humble submission that, maybe, we need to regulate the mushrooming of political parties and concentrate on economic matters,” he said this in the National Assembly on Tuesday, much to the amusement of opposition MPs and ululating by Zanu PF legislators.

Ncube said the government should introduce “punitive” measures on political actors who invited “punitive economic measures” against Zimbabwe.

“Let those who agitate for punitive economic measures against their country be arraigned before the courts and be barred from contesting in any elections until such a time that they redeem themselves,” he said in a statement indirectly targeted at the MDCs. – NewsDay