http://www.srilankasource.com/index.php/sid/248126377
142
14
Duterte believes critics portray him as a ‘cousin of Hitler’

Sri Lanka Source Friday 30th September, 2016

• Duterte has also compared himself to himself to late dictator Idi Amin Dada

• Duterte is “advocating and endorsing” mass murder

• Duterte has accused U.S. of hypocrisy

MANILA, Philippines - Adolf Hitler might be dead, but his so-called ‘cousin’ isn’t. In yet another notorious proclamation, Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte has now declared, “If Germany had Hitler, the Philippines would have him (Pointing to himself).”

The controversial president, who has come to be known by his undiplomatic and often abusive statements against world leaders, including U.S. President Barack Obama has yet again managed to grab global media limelight - and this time he has managed to rip out history’s most troublesome period, ruffling the features of Jews in the U.S.

In a speech in Davao on Friday, Duterte addressed the crowd gleaming with pride and likening himself to Nazi leader Adolf Hitler.

Duterte said he would be more than happy to slaughter the country’s three million drug users and peddlers.

This, moments after he compared himself to late dictator Idi Amin Dada who had allegedly had piled up scores of cases of human rights violation and had killed several individuals while being the ruler of Uganda.

Duterte said he had often been “portrayed to be a cousin of Hitler” by critics.

Adding that Hitler had murdered millions of Jews but in his country “there are three million drug addicts. I’d be happy to slaughter them.”

He said, "You know my victims. I would like (them) to be all criminals to finish the problem of my country and save the next generation from perdition."

Duterte’s comments were immediately met with backlash, the most offended were the Jewish groups in the United States.

Head of the Simon Wiesenthal Center's Digital Terrorism and Hate project, Rabbi Abraham Cooper said Duterte’s statements were "outrageous.”

Adding, “Duterte owes the victims (of the Holocaust) an apology for his disgusting rhetoric."

Meanwhile, an international Jewish group based in the United States, the Anti-Defamation League that recently went after Donald Trump Jr for a joke he cracked on the subject said Duterte's comments were "shocking for their tone-deafness.”

Todd Gutnick, the group's director of communications said in a statement, “The comparison of drug users and dealers to Holocaust victims is inappropriate and deeply offensive. It is baffling why any leader would want to model himself after such a monster.”

Incidentally, Philippines’ outgoing President, Benigno Aquino had warned a couple of days before the Philippines election that Duterte's rising popularity was akin to that of Hitler in the 1920s and 1930s.

Much to the shock of the global media then, Aquino had said, “I hope we learn the lessons of history. We should remember how Hitler came to power.”

Earlier on Friday, Fairfax Media photographer Kate Geraghty released images of three men who had been murdered and left on a railway track in a hideous manner.

Duterte’s comments were seen to be a reaction to the recent statement made by America’s most powerful politicians, who told the U.S. Senate that Duterte is “advocating and endorsing” mass murder and destabilising the war on drugs in his country.

Senator Patrick Leahy, a member of a committee that approves U.S. aid to foreign nations, said in an intervention, “When governments condone extrajudicial killings and forced disappearances, and prey on vulnerable populations, they are sowing the seeds of instability, not preventing it.”

Senator Leahy said he was “deeply concerned” by the state-backed gruesome killings in the Philippines.

Warning that if this violence persists "there will need to be an appropriate response by the U.S. government."

Further, Senator Benjamin Cardin warned U.S. of its relation with the Philippines.

Commenting on Philippines’ method of dealing with the war on drugs, Senator Cardin said, “In advocating and endorsing what amounts to mass murder (the Duterte administration) has chosen the wrong way.”

He added, “If the current trends continue we can expect that over 6000 people will be dead as a result of extra-judicial killings in the Philippines by the end of the year. This is not a situation in which there is occasional error or the overzealous application of force… this is systematic, widespread, brutal and beyond the bounds for a constitutional democracy.”

In response, the 71-year-old Filipino President merely said, “Do not interfere in our affairs” and pointed at the increasing number of officer shootings of black men in the U.S. accusing the country of hypocrisy.

He said, “Do not pretend to be the moral conscience of the world. Do not be the policeman because you do not have the eligibility to do that in my country.”