http://www.timeslive.co.za/thetimes/2016/09/08/EU-election-doubts-just-bias-says-Bongo
141
14
Several people were killed when police and protesters clashed yesterday. Parliament was torched and hundreds have been arrested in oil-rich Gabon since the August 27 poll, which Bongo's rival, Jean Ping, claims he won.

Poll results show Bongo won a second term by a wafer-thin margin of about 6000 votes.

On Tuesday, an EU team reported a "clear anomaly" in voting in Haut-Ogooue province, Bongo's heartland. Official results gave turnout in the province at more than 99%, with 95% of the vote for Bongo.

Reacting to criticism yesterday, Bongo, 57, said: "I would have liked them to have noted some anomalies in the fiefdom of Mr Ping."

The opposition has accused Bongo of rigging the vote and called for a recount, a call echoed by Manuel Valls, prime minister of Gabon's former colonial power, France.

A defiant Bongo ruled out any new tally unless the Constitutional Court ordered it.

"African governments are often accused of not respecting the law. For once we're respecting the law and we're being told to circumvent it; it's strange," he said.

Ping has not said if he will challenge the poll result in court. The deadline for doing so is today.

EU election monitors said the number of non-voters and disqualified votes recorded revealed a "clear anomaly in the final results in Haut-Ogooue".

Bongo said EU observers had overstepped their mandate and he, too, was preparing to challenge some of the results. He is under rising pressure since Justice Minister Seraphin Moundounga quit on Monday, demanding recounts at all polling stations.

Ping, 73, called for a general strike.

But Bongo said: "Mr Ping's call went unheeded ... it failed.

"Chaos will not take hold."

Bongo accused Ping, who is a former African Union Commission chairman, of attempting "massive fraud" and said that it was difficult to envisage dialogue with "people who ask the Gabonese to go into the streets to loot and destroy".

The central African nation has been ruled by the Bongo family since 1967..