http://www.khmertimeskh.com/news/29568/protester-questioned-at-court/
141
14
Land activist Tep Vanny was brought to the Phnom Penh Municipal Court for questioning yesterday over a protest she took part in outside Prime Minister Hun Sen’s mansion in 2013 – a case many believed had been settled but was brought to life when she was arrested on August 17 for participating in a Black Monday demonstration – as well as a protest in 2011.



Ms. Vanny has been detained in CC2 prison since she was arrested last month for protesting against the government’s investigation into the murder of political analyst Kem Ley among a host of other issues. She was swiftly tried and convicted, along with fellow activist Bov Sophea, for “insulting a public official.”



Since her arrest, hundreds of protesters have demonstrated outside of the prison and the courthouse demanding her release.



She is being charged with “intentional violence,” which police say occurred in March 2013, as well as “obstructing and insulting a public official,” which stems from a series of protests in 2011.



Spokesman for the court Ly Sophanna said investigating judge Nou Veasna questioned Ms. Vanny, but would not give any further details because it was “confidential.”



Defense lawyer Sam Sokunthear declined to comment yesterday.



The initial charge that kept Ms. Vanny in jail after her six-day sentence for her most recent conviction dates back to a Boeung Kak land demonstration in 2011 aiming to force Mr. Hun Sen to include 94 families from the area in his plan for a 12.44 hectare stretch of land set aside for those displaced by the much-maligned Boeung Kak land deal.



The 100-strong group of women marched toward Monivong Boulevard before police tried to block them from moving. The protest turned violent when protesters started throwing stones at police.



Protesters who were at the demonstration in 2013 disputed the police version of events, telling Khmer Times yesterday that police viciously attacked them yet were never held accountable for it.



“The police hit us on the head and even broke one land activist’s hand, but changed the story to say we beat them,” said Boueng Kak land activist representative Son Sreyleap. “This is very unfair. I hope the prime minister would allow us to use the cameras in front of his house to see what really happened at that time.”



Am Sam Ath, a technical coordinator for Licadho, said Ms. Vanny’s arrest and detention were emblematic of the government’s response to anyone who they believe can threaten their rule.



“It’s a sign of threats against this prominent land activist and her fellow activists who have been protesting for a resolution from day to day,” he said. “Vanny has been seen as a threat to the government because she is very active in protesting for justice, so this arrest is just to threaten her and other protesters.”