http://www.standardmedia.co.ke/article/2000211971/port-congestion-clearance-delays-anger-freighters
141
14


Updated Sun, August 14th 2016 at 13:25 GMT +3

Trucks try making their way towards Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) using Berth 18 in Mombasa County on Saturday 13th August 2016. There was heavy congestion of the trucks that lasted for hours making operations slow at the KPA. (PHOTO: KELVIN KARANI/ STANDARD)

Hundreds of loaded trucks have been held up at the port of Mombasa for up to three days owing to delays in theclearance of cargo. About 200 truck drivers who protested over the delays yesterday attributed it to inefficiencies by the Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA).

They said the delays were caused by new verification measures introduced to curb theft of cargo, and a shortage of staff. They said services were affected by the recent sacking of 10 officials at the port.

“KRA officials at Gate 18 are to blame for congestion of trucks in the port because they are not processing documents lodged with them fast enough,” said one a driver.

But Kenya Ports Authority Operations General Manager Sudi Mwasinago dismissed the complaints.

“As KPA, we are playing our part effectively and that is why nobody has raised any issue with us about delays of the cargo from the port,” said Mwasinago.

However, a clearing and forwarding agent, Mr Erick Isika, complained that most drivers who had lodged their T12 document to be allowed into the port found themselves held up at the port for up to three days

He said the problem started two weeks ago when KRA deployed new workers at the gate following the sacking of 10 KRA who were in charge of the section.

Another driver, Mr Joseph Kuguru, corroborated this statement.

“I have been in the port since Thursday because KRA employees failed to do their job,” he said.

Kenya International Forwarders Warehouse Association official Dennis Obok admitted there was a problem with the movement of cargo from the port for the last one week, and said KRA was responsible.

He said there were only two KRA workers at Gate 18, even though it was a busy exit point.

Mr Obok however noted that cargo was now moving faster after the KPA and his association intervened.