http://mumbaimirror.indiatimes.com/entertainment/bollywood/Parisian-proposal-for-Lisa/articleshow/54555137.cms
36
3
Over a month after their scenic Grecian getaway (Mirror, August 10), telecom tycoon Dino Lalvani went down on one knee to propose to actress-girlfriend Lisa Haydon in Paris on Monday after an eight-day vacation at the Amalfi coast and Capri in Italy.



After she said ‘yes’, Lisa shared the news on the social media with two pictures of her and her 42-year-old beau— first of them at Charles De Gaule airport, and the second at London’s Heathrow airport, where Dino bade her goodbye as she headed to the Bay.



“Gonna marry him,” Lisa gushed in the caption that ended with a solitaire emoji. During her week in London, the 30-year-old actress had launched close friend Nirav Modi’s new jewellery collection with a doting Dino by her side. After that a quick countryside getaway had turned out to be a private jet ride to the Italian coast ending with the proposal.



Lisa has been dating Dino, son of Pakistan-born British entrepreneur Gullu Lalvani, for over a year. In 2008, Dino became the chairman of his father’s company, Binatone Telecom, which then netted 60 million pounds, and is headquartered in Hong Kong with offices in USA, UK, Europe and India. In March, Dino had announced that all his American operations would move to Bangalore shortly.



Lisa and Dino were first snapped cosying up on October 29 last year at UNICEF’s Halloween Ball at One Mayfair in London. Their picture perfect moment on the red carpet of the charity gala to raise funds for Syrian children set the grapevine into action. Lisa looked stunning in a purple dress with a Native American headgear while Dino was suave in a blingy blue jacket paired with a magician's hat. She acknowledged their relationship at a film award ceremony in Spain earlier this year by referring to Dino as “my boo”.



A lavish wedding in Europe is in order early next year and will be attended by Gullu, his ex-wife Vimla, Dino’s uncles, Kartar and Pratap, along with members of their extended family. Meanwhile, the bride-to-be’s besties, Jacqueline Fernandez, Nargis Fakhri and the Housefull and Queen cast members, are expected to represent the filmi brigade. All hail this shaadi of the year!