http://nation.com.pk/national/25-Oct-2016/ihc-moved-against-islamabad-lockdown
141
14
ISLAMABAD - Four identical petitions yesterday were filed in the Islamabad High Court, praying to the court to restrain Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf from holding the sit-in scheduled for November 2 in Islamabad.



The petitioners also requested the court to issue directions for Pemra not to telecast Imran Khan’s speeches and interviews as he was still at large and did not surrender to the court of law.



The petitioners are advocates Raja Maqsood Hussain Tasleem Abbasi, Faiz Ahmed Cheema and Mohib Ullah.



The petitioners contended in their petitions that hurling threats to lock down the city attracted provisions of Anti-Terrorism Act (ATA) and Pakistan Penal Code (PPC).



They argued they had learnt through media that the PTI chairman had hurled threats to lock down the whole city for an indefinite period.

The petitioners added, being lawyers, they consider that such an act attracts Section 6(1) (b) of the ATA, 1997, and provisions of PPC.



The petitioners contended the PTI chairman was nominated in serious cases of attacking the Parliament, Pakistan Television building and the officers on duties during the 2014 sit-in.

“Imran Khan does not believe in rule of law and has the history of taking law into his own hands, which is evident from his conduct in above-mentioned cases.

Further, he never surrendered himself before a court of law or any agency and is still at large due to collaboration of the IGP Islamabad and others,” they said.



They continued it was duty of the state to keep check on electronic media that NAP should not be violated.

Article 16 of the Constitution allowed citizens to assemble in a peaceful manner, but this was not an absolute right as the law had imposed certain conditions on it.

“Article 15 which provides for free movement of the citizens would be infringed upon if this announced sit-in is not checked,” the petitioners feared.



The petitioners prayed to the court that the proposed act of the PTI chairman be declared as illegal and unconstitutional within as per ATA and PPC provisions.



They further prayed to the court to direct the federal government to ensure free and smooth movement of the citizens.

