http://www.whio.com/news/local/trump-coming-springfield-this-week/D7H2hXwTOeuTHxAuEgnxIK/
141
14
Updated: Thursday, October 27, 2016 @ 10:36 AM

By: Matt Sanctis - Staff Writer

Donald Trump will host a rally in Springfield today where local Republican leaders say he’ll likely look to secure early voters and rally supporters in the final days leading up to the Nov. 8 election.

This is the second time in less than two weeks that the presidential race has brought major candidates to visit Springfield. Last week, Tim Kaine, the Democratic candidate for vice president, hosted a rally at the Heritage Center of Clark County where he told voters Ohio is a critical state for both parties.

RELATED: Donald Trump Jr. rallies crowd in Oxford

Trump’s rally is scheduled to begin at 1 p.m. today at the Champions Center at the Clark County Fairgrounds. Doors will open at 10 a.m. and residents can get tickets online at www.donaldjtrump.com.

Trump will likely discuss his agenda, which includes repealing the Affordable Care Act, as well as the importance of naming justices to the U.S. Supreme Court, said Lynda Smith, chairwoman of the Clark County Republican Party. She said she’s not surprised both parties have sent candidates to Springfield late in the campaign.

“We’ll take it whenever we can get it,” Smith said. “I know they’re running all over the place at the end of the campaign so we’re glad (Trump) is going to make a point to come here.”

READ MORE: Kaine in Springfield: Ohio critical to election

Clark County Democrats said Trump lacks the experience and temperament for the job.

“He is absolutely the most unqualified person in the world to be president,” said David Hartley, chairman of the Clark County Democratic Party.

Hartley said he was unaware whether former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, the Democratic candidate for president, has plans to visit Clark County before the election.

Ohio is considered critical to Trump’s campaign because no Republican candidate for president has ever won the general election without winning Ohio. Last week, Kaine called the state a “checkmate state.”

Several polls show Ohio is one of a small number of hotly contested states that could swing toward either party in November, according to information from RealClearPolitics. Along with Springfield, Trump is also scheduled to visit Toledo today.

Both parties have been encouraging voters to get to the polls before Nov. 8, as experts have previously told the News-Sun that early voting is playing an increasingly important role in this year’s election.

“We are an early vote state so I’m sure he is going to encourage people to vote early,” Smith said.