http://www.4-traders.com/CARNIVAL-CORP-12003/news/Carnival-Cruise-operators-expanding-presence-in-China-23123876/
36
3
Sept. 28 --Cruise operators are angling for a bigger slice of what is poised to become the world's largest cruise market in coming years: China .

To capture more business and shore up future growth, three cruise operators -- Carnival Corp. , Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings and MSC Cruises -- recently outlined strategic plans for China that range from deploying more ships to boosting their sales presence to brokering partnerships to build ships there.

In 2015, about 986,000 Chinese passengers went on cruises, a 40 percent jump from roughly 703,000 in the previous year, according to findings of the Cruise Lines International Association's 2016 Asia Cruise Trends study, released in August. That compares with 466,781 and 216,700 Chinese cruise passengers in 2013 and 2012, respectively.

In 2014 and 2015, China was the world's fastest-growing major source market for cruise passengers, the study revealed.

" China is profitable," Carnival Corp. President and CEO Arnold Donald told analysts Monday during the company's third-quarter earnings call. "Our occupancies this year were very good ... the ships are sailing full ... and we don't see any consternation around occupancy for next year. Guest satisfaction levels are very high as well."

Next year, the Doral -based cruise company plans to add four more marketing offices in China and significantly expand its distribution network, Donald said. It grew to 16 offices this year, up from eight in 2015.

The company's Princess Cruises brand next year plans to launch Majestic Princess, its first to be built and designed for Chinese travelers, he said. The 3,560-passenger ship will debut in Europe in April and later reposition to Shanghai for Asia cruises starting July 11 , according to Princess.

Select ships from Princess and sister Italian unit Costa Cruises are already sailing in the Asia region. Vessels from two other brands -- Carnival Cruise Line and AIDA Cruises -- are set to join them in 2017, Carnival Corp. had previously announced.

The cruise giant's other cruise brands include Fathom, Holland America Line , Cunard, Seabourn, P&O Cruises UK and P&O Cruises ( Australia ).

On Friday, Carnival Corp. announced its cruise joint venture in China had entered into a non-binding memorandum of agreement to order two new Vista-class cruise ships, with an option for two more. The first ship would be scheduled for delivery in 2022. The new cruise ships would be built in China by a newly formed joint venture between China State Shipbuilding Corp. and Italian shipyard Fincantieri , Carnival Corp. said.

Carnival Corp. holds minority interest in its joint venture with CSSC and China Investment Capital Corp. , which was first announced last fall but recently received approval from the Chinese central government to officially incorporate in Hong Kong , the cruise company said.

The memorandum is subject to several conditions, including finalization of the joint venture, financing and other key terms, the cruise company said.

In a statement, Alan Buckelew , global chief operations officer for Carnival Corp. , said, "being able to offer cruises on China -built cruise ships represents a new opportunity for us to generate excitement and demand for cruising amongst a broader segment of the Chinese vacation market, which is already the largest in the world and continues to see strong growth every year."

China had 125 million outbound tourists in 2015, according to data from the China National Tourism Administration .

Meanwhile, Miami -based Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings also recently announced that ships from all three of its brands will call on China ports over the next 12 months. Those brands are Norwegian Cruise Line , Oceania Cruises and Regent Seven Seas Cruises .

"Four of our ships will bring nearly 7,000 international tourists to port cities in China in the next six months alone, including Hong Kong , Xiamen , Shanghai , Dalian and Tianjin -- with even more calls to China's ports scheduled for 2018," said Frank Del Rio , president and CEO, in a news release.

Starting in December, the renovated Norwegian Star will sail to Hong Kong and Sanya during a series of 11- and 14-day cruises. Oceania ships Nautica and Insignia will operate seasonal cruises in the region starting in February and March, respectively, while Regent's Seven Seas Voyager will spend the spring season in Asia starting in March.

Norwegian Joy, Norwegian's first ship to be built and customized for the Chinese market, will round out the cruise company's China offerings in 2017. The ship will begin sailing in June from Shanghai and later add cruises from Tianjin . The 3,850-passenger ship is under construction at the Meyer Werft shipyard in Germany .

In the past year, Norwegian has opened offices in Beijing , Shanghai and Hong Kong and moved key senior leadership there as part of its long-term commitment to growing its share of the China cruise market, the cruise line said.

Separately, Swiss-based MSC Cruises also recently announced plans to send a second ship to China in mid-2018, the 4,363-passenger MSC Splendida.

Splendida is scheduled to offer cruises to ports in China , Japan and Korea , and would join MSC Lirica, which has been serving that market since May, said MSC, which operates its North American division from Fort Lauderdale .

MSC has opened an office in Shanghai and appointed a new management and operations team based in the region as it moves to solidify its presence in the growth market.

In June, competitor Royal Caribbean International added another China -based vessel to its Asia cruising roster with the arrival of its new Ovation of the Seas ship to Tianjin . Ovation, which has a capacity for 4,180 passengers at double occupancy, joined a handful of other Royal Caribbean ships already sailing there, including Quantum of the Seas and Mariner of the Seas.

In 2015, the Asia cruise market overall, which includes China , Japan and South Korea , had 2.08 million ocean-going cruise passengers, an increase of 24 percent from 2014, CLIA's survey showed. And the growth in cruising, doesn't appear to be slowing down, CLIA said.

In China alone, the Chinese Ministry of Tourism has forecast the number of cruise passengers to grow to 4.5 million by 2020, up from nearly 1 million in 2015, according to Royal Caribbean .

"The cruise industry has been nimble and responded quickly to the demand for cruise travel in Asia by delivering cruise ships with amenities and experiences tailored to Asian travelers," said CLIA President and CEO Cindy D'Aoust , in announcing the survey's results.

"While we expected Asia to experience record-breaking growth in cruise travel, we are astonished at the rate at which the region is emerging as one of the most significant cruise destinations and cruise source markets in the world," added Zinan Liu, chair of CLIA North Asia.

___

(c)2016 the Sun Sentinel (Fort Lauderdale, Fla.)

Visit the Sun Sentinel (Fort Lauderdale, Fla.) at www.sun-sentinel.com

Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.