http://www.news.com.au/national/breaking-news/work-to-begin-on-wa-roe-8-project/news-story/200eeae281b87e7241e078741419b2fa
143
14
Rebecca Le May Australian Associated Press

The WA government insists earthmovers will descend on Perth's southern suburbs for the controversial Roe 8 road project by year-end and says a High Court appeal bid looks set to fail.

Premier Colin Barnett announced on Tuesday a $450 million construction contract was being finalised this week.

Transport Minister Bill Marmion said there was no escape clause to halt the highway extension in the event of a change in government or successful court challenge.

The Labor opposition is against the $1.9 billion joint federal and state-funded Perth Freight Link project that Roe 8 is part of but has not committed to tearing up the contract if it wins the March state election.

Mr Marmion's predecessor Dean Nalder insisted last month - the day before he quit cabinet - that there would be escape clauses.

The opposition said Mr Marmion's first job had been to remove them.

"I wouldn't envisage even if we lost the election, which I don't anticipate, that the Labor government would even change it," Mr Marmion told reporters on Tuesday.

"They would be absolutely stupid and silly to do that."

The announcement sparked outrage among the Save Beeliar Wetlands protest group, which expects to find out in about six weeks' time whether it has been granted leave to appeal the environmental approval in the High Court.

Mr Barnett said he didn't think the appeal would proceed.

"Our advice is that is unlikely to be accepted," he said.

"Even if the High Court does accept it, it is very unlikely to succeed because there is no dispute about environmental standards."

The opposition said the state government was treating voters with contempt by signing the contract before the election.

"This is a gigantic 'up yours' to the people of Western Australia," Labor leader Mark McGowan told reporters.

"To sign up to such a significant project four months before the next state election ... is a massive mistake."

Mr McGowan said Labor needed to see the documents before it could make an informed decision about its legal options.

Greens Senator Scott Ludlam said Labor should commit to reneging now, adding the Barnett government was setting itself up for an election loss by pushing through an unpopular development, arguing that Victoria's East West Link had felled the Napthine administration.

"I think this is going to cost them government so the smartest thing Labor could do now would simply be clear that they would repudiate those contracts," Senator Ludlam told AAP.

Mr Barnett says the project will reduce congestion and improve road safety and freight efficiency, and is supported by the transport industry as well as most southern suburbs residents who want fewer trucks on busy Leach Highway.

"This government will continue to make decisions right up to the caretaker period," he said.

"We've got a clear mandate for building Roe 8."