http://www.thestar.com.my/opinion/columnists/the-star-says/2016/09/28/probe-fatal-auto-racing-accident-diligently/
33
3
SPEED kills. And when combined with a lack of thought and care, it kills needlessly and tragically. Sadly, this happened during a race in Kuantan on Sunday morning, when an out-of-control vehicle shot off the track, crashed through barriers and ploughed into spectators.

A man and his four-year-old daughter were killed, while several others were injured.

As the families grieve and worry, the rest of us are asking one question: What went wrong?

Two lives have been lost and nobody can dare tell us that this is a normal and acceptable occurrence whenever a race is held, particularly one organised by a university, supported by a state government and sanctioned by a body set up to develop motorsports in Malaysia.

Staged by Universiti Teknologi Malaysia, the Educational Innovation of Motorsports and Auto­­motive Race is meant to be both a student competition and a tourism attraction.

Teams from institutions of higher learning design and build “race vehicles” to take part in this showcase of engineering and technical strength. And Pahang began hosting the annual event last year in the hope that more people will visit the state to watch the race.

These are good things to aim for, but there are inherent dangers in auto racing. When people race each other in high-speed machines, they do so with the knowledge that they risk life and limb, despite all the safety measures in place.

The same cannot be said for those who come in the belief that they will witness the thrills and spills from a safe vantage point. They have every right to assume that all reasonable steps have been taken to keep them out of harm’s way.

Of course, nobody had expected Sunday’s deadly accident, but there must be a proper accounting of what has been done right and what lapses, if any, have contributed to the unfortunate incident.

The investigations have started, but so too the dodging and parrying, transforming the sport of auto racing into the blame game.

Such things are understandable. When the stakes are high and the facts murky, it is unrealistic to expect anybody to step forward and admit responsibility.

This is why we need the authorities to probe diligently and impartially.

The findings ought to be made public and if anybody is found negligent, the law must be enforced.

This cannot revive the dead, but the living can at least learn from this episode. And may this lesson come swiftly and decisively.