https://www.theguardian.com/stage/2016/sep/28/wish-list-review-lives-boxed-in-by-relentless-work-and-benefit-cuts
37
3
Tamsin is 19 but she walks like an old woman. With anxiety etched across her pale face and her shoulders stooped, it is as if she is carrying the cares of the world. No wonder. By night, she looks after her 17-year-old brother, Dean, caught in a vicious cycle of OCD which means he can’t leave the house. She must try to negotiate the labyrinthine benefits system that declares Dean fit for work even though his obsessive behaviour means he’s seldom out of the bathroom. By day, Tamsin works a 10-hour shift packing in an online warehouse. Over the workers an Orwellian management sign breezily exhorts: “Work. Enjoy. Improve.”

Perfume seller wins Bruntwood prize for play about welfare cuts Read more

Since their mother died, Tamsin and Dean – both barely more than children – have been left to fend for themselves, and their lives have become an increasingly Kafkaesque nightmare. It’s not just the lack of money that wears Tamsin down, it’s the lack of control over her own life. Others – the benefits bureaucrats, the faceless management of the online business – make the decisions that hold sway over her daily survival. The dehumanising job on a zero-hours contract where even the toilet breaks are timed is soul-destroying. But she can’t do without it.

Katherine Soper’s debut play won the 2015 Bruntwood prize for playwriting and will be heading to the Royal Court in London next year. Deservedly so. It may be conventional in construction and style but its emotional impact, in Matthew Xia’s fine production, is devastating. There were times when I was watching with a clenched stomach and clenched teeth.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest In a Kafkaesque nightmare … Erin Doherty as Tamsin in Wish List. Photograph: Jonathan Keenan

Like Alexander Zeldin’s Beyond Caring, Wish List brings the reality of life on a zero-hours contract vividly and painfully to life. As the packing overseer observes when Tamsin complains about the management’s impositions and lust for profit: “Do you think about where your clothes come from? How much that child earned?” We are all complicit in this. A few scenes earlier, we have seen Tamsin opening up her own delivery of cheap clothes.

There is a compelling, highly detailed central performance from Erin Doherty as the increasingly anxiety-ridden Tamsin, boxed in by her responsibilities, and very nice work from Joseph Quinn as Dean, Aleksandar Mikic as the overseer, and Shaquille Ali-Yebuah as Luke, the temporary worker escaping to college. Luke features in a tender, funny and sad scene involving Meat Loaf’s I’d Do Anything for Love (But I Won’t Do That) that recalls Jim Cartwright’s Road, the enduring 1986 play about dispossessed teenagers in Thatcher’s Britain.

Wish List may not be ground-breaking, but it is a quietly essential and moving play that makes us empathise with the lives of the desperate and the unseen. The kind of warehouse where Tamsin works is known as a “fulfilment centre”. But for her, and thousands of others, there is no earthly chance of having their dreams fulfilled.

At Royal Exchange Studio, Manchester, until 15 October. Box office: 0161-833 9833.