http://www.thenational.scot/news/we-want-to-welcome-eu-citizens-whether-they-live-here-or-are-visiting---hundreds-take-part-in-rally-outside-snp-conference.23617
141
14
‘We want to welcome EU citizens whether they live here or are visiting’ - hundreds take part in rally outside SNP conference

If you would prefer unlimited access, please support our journalism with a website subscription. Subscribe today for just £3.99 a month.

Will fin breid, barley-bree an paintit room. Whan MacLean meets wi's friens in Springburn. Aa thae roses an geeans will turn tae blume. An a black laud frae yont Nyanga. Dings the fell gallows o the burghers doun.

Black an white ane-til-ither mairriet. Mak the vile barracks o thair maisters bare. Sae come aa ye at hame wi freedom. Never heed whit the houdies croak for Doom. In yer hous aa the bairns o Aidam.

Tak the road an seek ither loanins. Wi thair ill-ploys tae sport an play. Nae mair will our bonnie callants. Merch tae war whan our braggarts crousely craw. Nor wee weans frae pitheid an clachan. Murn the ships sailin doun the Broomielaw. Broken faimilies in launs we've hairriet. Will curse 'Scotlan the Brave' nae mair, nae mair.

Roch the win i the clear day's dawin. Blaws the clouds heilster-gowdie owre the bay. But thair's mair nor a roch win blawin. Thro the Great Glen o the warl the day. It's a thocht that wad gar our rottans. Aa thae rogues that gang gallus fresh an gay.

STILT walkers, Harley Davidson bikers and flags aplenty created a carnival mood at a pro independence rally outside the Scottish Exhibition and Conference Centre on the final day of the SNP conference in Glasgow yesterday.

STILT walkers, Harley Davidson bikers and flags aplenty created a carnival mood at a pro independence rally outside the Scottish Exhibition and Conference Centre on the final day of the SNP conference in Glasgow yesterday.

Several hundred people, including William Prowse of Motherwell, pictured below, took part in the event arranged, the organisers said, to send a signal to the world that the demand for Scotland to be a sovereign nation was firmly back on the political and cultural agenda. Many of the supporters carried CND and Yes2 banners as well as Saltires, Catalan, Lion Rampant and Palestinian flags.

They chanted: “What do we want? Independence!” as they gathered on the concourse in front of the SECC and made their way to an area in

front of the Armadillo concert venue on the banks of the Clyde.

A loud cheer went up as a sightseeing bus drove past packed with overseas tourists. As it went by rally organiser Alison Brown, 60, a sculptor from Perth, held up her Saltire which carried the message “EU citizens are welcome”. Passengers on the open top double decker waved and clapped in response.

“We are a happy happy lot," Brown said. "There is a great and very hopeful atmosphere here today: good natured as always. We want to demonstrate our welcome to EU citizens whether they live here or are visiting.”

“And the rally is also to show our support to our First Minister Nicola Sturgeon. We want to give a physical message to people across the country and further afield that we want independence. We want to win a second referendum and we are optimistic. To my mind it is not a question of if, it is a question of when.”

Minutes after the tourist bus went by around 40 Yes2 bikers descended. Carrying Yes2 banners the bikers created a stir as they revved up their engines to the delight and applause from the crowd.

Teresa Dufficy, 54, a community worker from Aberdeen who teaches English to Syrian refugee children, was among activists taking part. She and her friend Tracy Gaitens, 46, who together have set up a Yes2 group in Aberdeen, had both been at the SNP conference earlier.

“I’ve been enjoying the debates and meetings at the conference, but I came out to the rally to show my support,” Dufficy said. “We need everybody to create a wider Yes movement in order to achieve independence

“I think the case is stronger than it was in 2014. Quite a few No voters have told me they would support Yes next time as they were absolutely devastated by the EU referendum. And to anybody who tries to point out next time, like they did in 2014, that an independent Scotland would be like Greece without the sun, I would say no – an independent Scotland would be like Norway with the whisky.”

Fraser Murray, 20, of East Lothian, was also taking part. He said he passionately wanted to see independence, but was prepared to wait until the right time to win a referendum.

“I want indyref2 just whenever we know we can win. Even it is just within the next decade, I would be happy to wait. If it takes time, it takes time.”

Members of the indy camp outside the Scottish Parliament were also at the rally, with camper Dean Halliday saying they had not given up their own demonstration to remain in situ until Scotland became independent. Their appeal against the court judgement to remove them from the grounds will take place this week.