http://www.philstar.com:8080/business/2016/09/18/1624807/clark-opens-one-stop-center-ofws
143
14
MANILA, Philippines - A new one-stop shop center near the Clark International Airport opened yesterday to help fast-track government processes for overseas Filipino workers (OFWs).

In a statement, the Clark International Airport Corp. said the new one-stop shop center was formally opened by Labor and Employment Secretary Silvestre Bello III and Transportation Secretary Arthur Tugade.

“This is part of President Rodrigo Duterte’s program to provide convenience to our OFWs mostly working in the Middle East and other parts of (the) world,” Bello said.

The new facility located at the Clark Polytechnic Compound, is just a few kilometers from the Clark International Airport and hosts the following agencies: the Bureau of Immigration, PhilHealth, Pag-IBIG Fund, Philippine Statistics Authority, National Bureau of Investigation (NBI), Philippine Overseas Employment Administration, Overseas Workers Welfare Administration, Department of Labor and Employment, Technical Education and Skills Development Authority, Professional Regulation Commission, Department of Education, Commission on Higher Education, Social Security System, Maritime Industry Authority, Commission on Filipinos Overseas, as well as Bayad Center.

Through the one-stop shop center, OFWs can avail of services such as the processing of the Overseas Employment Certificate, NBI clearances, Pag-IBIG contribution, PhilHealth payment premium contributions and members registration, as well as SSS registration and membership data amendment including acceptance of loans and benefits claim applications.

OFWs could also visit the facility for the issuance of birth certificate, marriage certificate, death certificate, and Certificate of No Marriage Record.

Business ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1

The facility could likewise facilitate the MARINA’s issuance and revalidation of the seaman’s book, issuance of PRC’s professional licenses as well as TESDA’s issuance of training certifications and applications for scholarship programs.

To provide convenience to OFWs, the facility is also equipped with Wi-Fi connectivity.

Bello said the opening of the new facility is timely as the Clark International Airport is being positioned as an alternative airport to decongest the Ninoy Aquino International Airport (NAIA) in Manila.

Last year, all four terminals of NAIA served over 36 million passengers, higher than the annual maximum capacity of 35 million passengers.