http://en.farsnews.com/newstext.aspx?nn=13950725001288
141
14
World

Terrorists Preparing to Launch Fresh Operations to Save Comrades Trapped in Aleppo in Last Ditch Effort

TEHRAN (FNA)- An opposition military source disclosed that terrorist groups in Northern Syria are getting ready to launch large-scale offensives to lift the Syrian army siege on Jeish al-Fatah militants in the Eastern part of Aleppo city as they have come up with the conclusion that the city will be conquered by the army in maximum 2 months.

"Militants' depot of arms and ammunition and storages of food stuff and medical equipment will end in less than two months. They are really trapped in a frim circle of government forces," the source said, adding, "That is why Jeish al-Fatah's allies in other regions are preparing to storm government positions around Aleppo's outskirts to break the siege and save their comrades."

"Syrian army and its popular allies have ended up the forth phase of their operation, which focused on cutting off the militants' supply routes to the Eastern districts of Aleppo, and have now started to hit the besieged militants," the source went on to say.

In the meantime, popular uprising and protests against militants' presence in Aleppo city have increased in the last ten days.

Yesterday, Al-Qataneh neighborhood's residents took to the streets in Eastern part of Aleppo and called on the militant groups to leave the city immediately.

Fatah al-Sham Front's (the newly-formed al-Qaeda-affiliated terrorist group previously known as the al-Nusra Front) religious judge Abdullah al-Moheiseni also warned on Saturday that widening rifts among the members of Jeish al-Fatah coalition of militant groups and the recent advances of the Syrian government forces will soon end in the imminent collapse of the militants in Aleppo and Damascus provinces.

Al-Moheiseni underlined that the militant groups in Aleppo and Damascus are most likely to sustain the greatest defeats they have endured so far, given the Syrian army's growing pace of victories and increasing differences among the rebels.

"Militants' defeats and failure in Damascus and Aleppo are due to the very weak management of our field commanders, who stressed on their own military plans," he added.

Al-Moheiseni had warned of widening rifts among militants in Aleppo in August.

"If my attempts to decrease differences among the coalition's militant groups fail, and if the other members of Jeish al-Fatah coalition do not unite with Fatah al-Sham I will encourage young fighters to leave the coalition. I will also leave the militant groups alone," al-Moheiseni underscored.

He further accused some members of Jeish al-Fatah coalition of seeking more relations with their foreign backers which as he said is the main barrier on the way of uniting coalition's members.