http://indianexpress.com/article/india/india-news-india/aap-gujarat-high-court-surat-rally-arvind-kejriwal-3042694/
141
14
AAP contended in the petition that it was unable to carry out any political programs in Gujarat in the past one year, owing to not being given permissions to hold rallies. (file photo) AAP contended in the petition that it was unable to carry out any political programs in Gujarat in the past one year, owing to not being given permissions to hold rallies. (file photo)

The Aam Aadmi Party Wednesday approached the Gujarat High Court seeking permission to hold a public rally in Surat, after being repeatedly turned down for permission by state authorities in the past. The petition was filed by Harshil Nayak, the official spokesperson and Media Coordinator of AAP Gujarat, through senior lawyer AJ Yagnik after uncertainty loomed over AAP’s plans of holding a public rally at Mahalaxmi Chowk in Surat on October 16, which will be chaired and addressed by Delhi CM and AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal. AAP, which has a membership of over a lakh currently, will be looking to kick off its Gujarat 2017 poll campaign from Surat, and a footfall of 20,000 supporters is expected at the meet, according to party sources.

What else is making news

The high court issued notices to ACS of Home Department, Surat Collector and District Magistrate and the state government seeking reply. The petition mentions that AAP filed an application before the police commissioner on August 19 seeking permission for the rally, and had sent several reminders but to no avail. “Proximity of Arvind Kejriwal with Patidar leaders and the possibility of the community aligning themselves with AAP in the coming legislative assembly elections in Gujarat is something that Bharatiya Janta Party is worried about. The civil and police administration is trying to stop and prevent Aam Aadmi Party in making inroads in the State of Gujarat,” read the petition.

The party contended in the petition that it was unable to carry out any political programs in Gujarat in the past one year, owing to not being given permission to hold rallies and its members regularly being detained whenever they try to protest against the ruling BJP government. On Tuesday, posters surfaced in various places of Surat and social media was abuzz with Twitter handles of AAP Gujarat unit announcing Kejriwal’s Oct 16 rally, even as the party awaits police permission for the same.

The petition also mentioned that Surat Police has granted permission to hold two public meetings addressed by BJP National President Amit Shah, one by Cabinet minister Smriti Irani and another held by Leader of Opposition in Gujarat assembly Shankarsinh Vaghela.

“More than 60 per cent of our requests for holding rallies are being denied by the police, citing various reasons. Last month, there were two rallies by BJP National President Amit Shah, one by Union Textile minister Smriti Irani and just a few days back Senior Congress Shankersinh Vaghela has also held a rally. However despite having submitted a request for permission for the rally and having met the police officials at Surat including the police commissioner, we have not yet got any go ahead. We had met with the Governor on August 6th and aired our grievances regarding our rallies getting shelved because of lack of permissions, and had also shared the same with previous Gujarat CM Anandiben Patel,” shared a source close to the development.

The petition also mentions that in the past a public meeting that was to be addressed by Kejriwal had to be cancelled in the last minute as it was denied permission. “Besides, other political gimmicks were put in practice by the administration, Civil and Police, at the instance of Bharatiya Janta Party ruling the State of Gujarat obviously on account of political considerations,” the petition cites.

© The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd