http://www.news.com.au/national/nsw-act/far-right-group-party-for-freedom-dress-as-muslims-to-storm-gosford-church/news-story/f1560eacd2416e7fc02a8ec046b3d97b
145
14
Video

Image Group dressed as Muslims disrupt church service 2:40 A group representing partyforfreedom.org.au storm a Christian church, dressed in Islamic garb, in Gosford. Facebook/Party for Freedom.org.au

NICK HANSEN The Daily Telegraph

THE leader of the far-right nationalist group, which stormed a Central Coast church service dressed as Muslims, said he wanted to show the congregation what the future looked like.

Party for Freedom chairman Nick Folkes and nine supporters yesterday walked in on Father Rod Bower’s Sunday service in protest at the pro-refugee messages often adorning the sign outside the Gosford Anglican Church.

A video of the incident shows Mr Folkes, wearing a red beard and Islamic clothing, playing loud Islamic music while some of his followers knelt in “prayer”.

“This is cultural diversity, the rich tapestry of Islam that we would like to share with father Rod,” he yelled as they were urged to stop.

“I don’t feel bad, we kept the music low and when they asked us to leave, we left,” Mr Folkes said after the incident, adding he was “stoked” to see Pauline Hanson back in politics.

He said messages like “bless the burqa” on the church’s sign had angered nationalists like him and he denied his actions on Sunday were racist.

“I have real concerns about the political agenda of Islam,” he said.

“I want to live in a secular country.

“We wanted to let them know this is the future if you continue to promote Islam and cultural diversity.

“I’m just stoked Pauline got up, it’s such a positive thing for this country. It’s already helping our cause.”

OTHER NEWS: COUNCILS PUT DOWN MORE DOGS THAN GREYHOUND INDUSTRY

Mr Folkes wants Australia’s refugee intake restricted to a “limited” number of Christians only.

Members of the Gosford congregation were understood to be shaken up by the intrusion.

“He’s got a right and we would never damage his signs, but we thought we’d better let him know what we think,” Mr Folkes said.

“I think a lot of churches today are running this social justice platform and it’s misguided, Father Rod’s a good bloke, he’s got a good heart but he’s misguided.”

The group gloated about the intrusion, positing an image to Facebook a short time later of them drinking at a pub.

“We got on the bevvies to celebrate,” Mr Folkes said.

A NSW Police spokeswoman said the protesters had left by the time police arrived shortly after 9am but investigations are continuing.

The church has been contacted for comment.