http://www.business-standard.com/article/pti-stories/pak-charges-mqm-chief-with-treason-116082301160_1.html
141
14
Pak charges MQM chief with treason

today charged MQM chief Altaf Hussain with treason for his inflammatory speech that incited party workers to attack media outlets here.



Hussain, leader of Mutthaida-E-Qaumi Movement - the single largest party in Karachi, was accused of raising anti- slogans at a protest rally that turned violent.



Several journalists of various media organisation were attacked by the activists of the MQM. The protesters pelted stones and resorted to heavy aerial firing that killed one person and wounded others.



Two cases have been filed against Hussain: one for treason for his anti- speech to participants in the hunger strike organised by MQM and the other for inciting party workers to violent protests, Inspector General of AD Khawaja was quoted as saying by the Geo News.



The case pertains to the attack on 'ARY' News' office, vandalising of property, arson and pelting of stones at police.



MQM party workers took to streets yesterday after Hussain, in an address from London, incited them to storm media outlets and chant anti- slogans during the hunger strike. The hunger strike was launched to protest the disappearance and arrest of their workers by the paramilitary rangers.



Responding to the protests, paramilitary rangers launched a major offensive here and sealed offices of the party.



The senior membership of MQM confirmed that they are no longer under the directive of Hussain.



Senior MQM leader Farooq Sattar and other leaders said that in future the party would operate from alone and that all decisions would be taken by the leadership in and not from London from where Hussain has controlled the MQM for years now.



"The MQM should operate from alone," Sattar said.



"We totally disassociate ourselves from the violence that took place in yesterday. It is totally against our policy to use violence to achieve our ends," he added.



"Altaf Hussain and the entire party are being ridiculed due to these statements," Sattar added.



"Enough is enough we cannot side with anti- statements or ideology," said another MQM leader Aamir Liaquat Hussain.



The MQM remains the single largest party in for decades now and have dominated the political landscape for years sweeping provincial and national elections but since the clean-up operation began on the orders of the centre, the party has come under intense pressure.

(This story has not been edited by Business Standard staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)

Press Trust of India