http://www.philstar.com/cebu-news/2016/08/19/1615087/30-students-air-gripe-vs-vigilante-killings
145
14
CEBU, Philippines - Alarmed by the string of apparent extra-judicial killings in the country, around 30 Political Science students and faculty members of the University of San Carlos yesterday staged a protest to demand that the fight against illegal drugs be waged within the limits of the law.

At around 9 a.m. yesterday, the students “voluntarily” gathered outside their school, particularly at the intersection of Pelaez and P. del Rosario Streets, bringing placards that said "Uphold Due Process of Law," "Respect Human Rights," and "No to Extra-Judicial Killings."

Some of them acted as victims of killings, with fa-ces covered with masking tapes and bodies slumped on the ground in an area enclosed by police line.

A faculty member then read the department's position paper condemning reports that some of the drug suspects are being slain apparently by unknown gunmen, vigilantes or drug syndicates.

The paper acknowled-ges that the drug menace in the country remains a pressing issue with the Philippines having the "highest abuse rate for shabu in East Asia."

"But we stand firm and we remain with ways that uphold the rule of law and the dignity of every human person. The killing of persons accused of crimes without being afforded of their basic constitutional rights such as presumption of innocence and due process is in no way acceptable nor agreeable," it reads.

Freeman ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch:

According to their position, law enforcers should ensure that the war on drugs will not endanger the lives of people, especially the innocent. It calls on the government to lay down concrete plans on rehabilitation and reintegration.

Grace Magalzo-Bualat, chairperson of the USC Political Science Department, clarified that they are supporting "100 percent" the Duterte administration's crusade against drugs.

However, she said that as a partner for change, the government should see to it that no human rights are being stifled upon, especially the rights enshrined in the Constitution and the rights of the accused.

She said the responsibility to teach the youth about the perils of drugs is co-shared by the government and the community, as well as the academe.

"The community should help. Dili man masulbad sa atong president nga mag-inusara, busa kinahanglan ang pagtinabangay ug mobarog gayud sa mga palisiya nga makadaot na sa katawhan ug kadaghanan," said Bualat.

Bualat added that among the reasons that prompted them to come up with their call was a report about an honor student who was among those killed when police raided a boarding house in Metro Manila.

"That's the reason we are sending our message to President Duterte that there is something wrong on the war on drugs because some people who died were innocent," she said.

Father Bartolome Sagadal, retired assistant regional director of Bureau of Jail Management and Penology and now an instructor in human rights and social justice at USC, said the Philippines risks being scored by the United Nations if these killings blow out of proportion.

"Naa'y bearing sa UN ang violations sa extra-judicial killings tungod kay ang matag usa adunay right to life, right to due process and some other human rights. Bisan unsa kadautan sa tawo, aduna gihapo'y kaayohan sulod sa iyang kasing-kasing, ug naa siya'y higayon nga magbag-o," he said.

Man killed

The night before the protest was staged, the spate of killings continued in Cebu.

In Mandaue City, a 36-year-old man, who is included in the drug watch list of city's Police Station 1, was shot dead inside his shanty on S.B. Cabahug Street, Barangay Guizo.

Senior Police Officer 2 Renato Canja identified the victim as Gudofredo Bas Jr., who was sleeping with his live-in partner around 10 p.m. Wednesday when he was shot by an unidentified assailant.

Bas was hit in the head and did not make it to the hospital.

According to Canja, Bas was No. 3 on the list of their station's drug personalities and was also previously arrested for theft. They have yet to establish the motive in the killing but he theorized it may have something to do with illegal drugs.

On Tuesday dawn, a certain Emy Cañas, 28, who was sleeping with his live-in partner in Sitio Kalagitan, Barangay Buanoy, Balamban town, was also shot dead by yet unidentified perpetrators.

In Cebu City, one Edward Cassel, 43, was shot at close range by suspects in tandem Tuesday noon, although police were eyeing personal grudge in his killing.

Netizens divided

Photos of the picket that circulated online drew both flak and expressions of support for the protesters.

One netizen commented that the protesters were only wasting their time while defending that, in a way, the killings actually make communities much safer.

Another addressed his comment to the students saying, "Is this your stand as an individual? Or just a compliance to get good grades? I salute you if you're doing this whole-heartedly."

But there were also those who were inspired by what the students did.

"The opposite of love is not hate. It is apathy. I think it's better to appreciate these students on their stand against extra-judicial killings. Ikaw, what did you do to better your country? Gabasa ani akong Facebook post? Nanakop og Pokemon sa Ayala?" another netizen wrote. (FREEMAN)