http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3746873/At-20-Eastern-European-squatters-forced-way-GP-s-surgery-leaving-trail-damage-police-powerless-act.html
145
14
A gang of Eastern European squatters have trashed a GP surgery but police have insisted they could not arrest them.

The group of 20 people caused thousands of pounds of damage to Lime Tree Surgery, in Leytonstone, east London, after staying for just one night on Sunday.

Dr Liaquat Ali is also furious that police told him they could take no action saying that squatting in a non-residential property is not illegal.

One witness said officers called to the surgery did not arrest anyone and even accompanied some inside as they collected their possessions.

Shocking: This is some of the damage caused by squatters who trashed a GP surgery in just one night

Crime: The group ripped off out the alarm and broke through the doors but police said they could not act because the building is non-residential

Upset: Dr Liaquat Ali, pictured with patients Nazir Patel and Jeremy Hare at the Lime Tree Surgery, says he is furious police say that they could not act

The squatters, who also had at least one dog with them, tore the alarm system from the wall and entered treatment rooms after breaking code locks off the doors.

Food and rubbish was left scattered across computer keyboards, empty beer cans and food were strewn across the reception area and carpets were left destroyed by cigarette butts.

Scotland Yard has refused to say why the 20-strong group were not being targeted for breaking and entering, criminal damage or trespass.

Criminal damage: Dr Ali clutches the numbered door locks the squatters broke off to enter treatment rooms

Dr Liaquat Ali, who has worked at the surgery for over 20 years, described the scene of chaos when he arrived at work on Monday morning.

The 48-year-old said: 'I was absolutely shocked, disgusted and very angry at the state that they left the building in.

'They have walked out and I have been left with it. I spent all morning cleaning and gathering rubbish and my patients were helping me.'

He was left furious after ringing the police, who told him they could not help because squatting in a non-residential property is not illegal.

But while causing damage to the property can lead to a criminal conviction, he claims the emergency services failed to take action.

He added: 'The police said they could not do anything even though there was clear evidence of criminal damage.

'So squatters can just break into commercial properties and prevent people from working? It's just not right. The law should definitely be changed.'

Damage: Food and rubbish was left scattered across computer keyboards, empty beer cans and food were strewn across the reception area and carpets were left destroyed by cigarette butts

Disrespectful: Graffiti was also left on the walls but the culprits are set t avoid any punishment

Dr Carolin Kumana, 41, who has worked at the surgery for 10 years, said: 'I am very upset.

'It is unbelievable that this can happen. It is an appalling situation.

'This is the patients' community surgery and it is being violated.'

The squatters were unable to gain access to the 8,000 patients' medical records, which were secured in locked cabinets.

They departed with their furniture and luggage yesterday after police told them they had to leave when patients staged a protest outside.

One of the squatters, who gave his name as Martin and said he was from Slovakia, said he recently became homeless after losing his job.

Another, a Polish man named Adam, said he took the day off work from his kitchen porter job to pack up his things and move out of the surgery.

Filthy: Dr Ali inspects some of the mess and detritus left strewn across his surgery on Sunday night

Shafi Syed, whose five children are patients at the surgery, said he is angry that when the police arrived last night they did not prevent the squatters from going back into the building.

He said: 'I am very angry that our surgery has been taken over by squatters.

'The police did not help at all when they came last night.

'They escorted the squatters back inside. It is complete rubbish'.

Javed Latif, 49, who is a patient at the surgery and lives in Cann Hall Road, said it is bad for the image of the area to have people squatting in a building.

He said: 'As a parent I don't want squatters in my area. It is not a good image for the area.

'It makes us feel terrible that they can just take over our working surgery.

'The law should be changed and the police should have the powers to evict squatters.'