http://www.express.co.uk/news/royal/720059/Duchess-Cambridge-Kate-Middleton-Rotterdam-visit
141
14
GETTY Kate demonstrated the rare art of bicycle maintenance in a designer suit during her Rotterdam visit

Few women would attempt to help fix an oily bike in haute couture but the future Queen appeared unfazed by the danger of getting dirty marks on her pale blue Catherine Walker skirt suit. Kate, 34, helped children fixing up bikes on a visit to the gritty port city of Rotterdam where she aimed to see if Britain can learn from a project teaching deprived young people practical skills. She went to the Bouwkeet Makers Space, which straddles the adjoining Bospolder and Tussendijken neighbourhoods in Rotterdam to see a new charity-funded project designed to keep youths off the streets by teaching them manufacturing, maintenance and repair skills.

The project, housed in a formerly derelict post office covering 1,000 square metres, uses an American idea - Makers Spaces are usually places where people pay to use machinery - and is trying to develop it into a scheme to combat high rates of crime and unemployment in the area. Adults using the centre are asked to pay not with cash but by teaching others, particularly young people, in the district skills such as welding, laser cutting, bicycle repairs, metal and wood work. She helped children in the bicycle repair workshop by holding their frames while they adjusted the wheels, brakes and gears. Richenel Lensa, 47, a welder from Rotterdam, who volunteers at the centre, led the bike refurbishment class and said afterwards: "When I met her I told her my hands were dirty but she still shook it and said 'sometimes my hands are dirty too.'

GETTY

GETTY The Duchess was impressed by Driss Ben Mira when he demonstrate Meganoid, the large robot he built

"The kids are very happy to see that someone important has come here to see what they are doing – it’s great for the kids. "They were so excited to see the Duchess they wanted to keep their work gloves that she shook even though they’re covered with grease." Later she joined children making Lego robots and had a go at getting one to race along the floor before watching one boy, Driss Ben Mira, 9, demonstrate Meganoid, the large robot he had made. Driss got the robot to wave his arms but struggled to get it to walk for Kate, who was still impressed.

Textiles, ceramics, bike mechanics and IT programming are just some of the skills local craftsman share with local kids @BouwKeet_RTD pic.twitter.com/TnWyduA6sT — Kensington Palace (@KensingtonRoyal) October 11, 2016

"That's amazing," she said, before smiling and shaking hands with Meganoid. "Very nice to meet you," she told the robot. In another one of the centre's six workshops she helped Sara Bel Hocein, 11, make T shirts for Prince George and Princess Charlotte. George's had a bus motif on the front and a G within a shield. Charlotte's had an owl on the front and two small hearts.

GETTY Kate also brought home personalised T-shirts for Prince George and Princess Charlotte

Kate helped Sara use a press to transfer the motifs onto the garments. She also went to try on a knitted hat made by one of the other youngsters but then thought better of it. Daniel White, a Dutch national with British parents who works as the project director, explained that the centre, which opened in August last year, was unique in Holland.

Bedankt voor jullie gastvrijheid Nederland! Het was gezellig! pic.twitter.com/XjvF2GrGdp — Kensington Palace (@KensingtonRoyal) October 11, 2016

Kate, Duchess of Cambridge in pictures Mon, October 10, 2016 Kate Middleton, Duchess of Cambridge, life in pictures; including royal visits around the world and her most stunning outfits. Play slideshow 1 of 330