http://nation.com.pk/lahore/03-Oct-2016/lawyers-strikes-a-notice-at-last
141
14
Lahore - While strikes have become routine for the legal fraternity, LHC Chief Justice Syed Mansoor Ali Shah has expressed serious concerns over the practice which causes serious problems for the litigants, especially those coming from far flung areas to seek justice.



Last week, presiding over a meeting of District and Sessions judges of the province, the CJ discussed with the participants the figures of such strikes which were observed in various districts of Punjab by respective Bar Associations and took the input of DSJs on the same.

He asked the DSJs in Punjab to start a deliberative and consultative process immediately with office bearers of bar associations of their respective districts and to come up with a viable plan to curb the unenviable trend.



All the DSJs vowed to engage the representatives of local bar associations in a meaningful dialogue to systematically curtail the phenomenon of strikes.



The roundtable also discussed the matter of uniforms for the staff of district judiciary, transfer policy for judicial officers, manner of proclamations of court notices in the newspapers and preparations in respect of sesquicentennial celebrations of the LHC.



Also, during the week, an ATC indicted 42 suspects involved in lynching of two Muslim men outside Youhana Abad in retaliation for two suicide attacks on churches.



Nishtar Town police produced the suspects before the court under strict security arrangements and the court framed charges on them.

The suspects pleaded not guilty and opted to contest their trial.



The court adjourned the trial hearing till Oct 7 and directed the prosecution to produce its witnesses.



Previously, the court had indicted 20 other suspects on same charges.

In March, 2015, two suicide attacks were carried out on two churches inside Youhan Abad, a Christian dominated locality on Ferozepur Road, Lahore.

The members of the Christian community resorted to violent protest and burnt two Muslim men to death suspecting them the attackers.

The victims were later identified as Babar Noman, a garment worker, and Hafiz Naeem, a glass cutter, of the same locality.



A full bench of the Lahore High Court referred to the Registrar Office several petitions seeking direction for the Punjab government to make inquiry report of the 2014 Model Town killings public so the citizens could know who was responsible for the tragedy.



The bench, headed by senior puisne judge Justice Shahid Hameed Dar, took up the matter.

The bench observed that these petitions were fixed mistakenly before it and referred them to the registrar office.

Justice Muhammad Anwaarul Haq and Justice Muhammad Qasim Khan were the other members of the bench.



The bench observed that it was made for the hearing of other petitions.

And thus, once again, the matter of Model Town inquiry report and legal status of the tribunal's proceedings was deferred for another indefinite period.



It has been more than a year that these petitions were instituted for publication of inquiry report of Model Town incident but unfortunately these were not taken up after the retirement of Justice Muhammad Khalid Mahmood Khan in April.



Permission granted to the PTI to hold a rally near the Raiwind residences of the prime minister was another case decided last week.



The full court allowed the PTI to take out peaceful rally.

The bench also ordered the district government officials to provide foolproof security to the rally’s participants.

The bench also ordered the Punjab government not to harass and arrest the party workers.



PTI, accordingly, held the public show in a peaceful manner, while police discharged duties in a professional manner as a result of which the participants dispersed peacefully.



This is the way things should be settled.

If anybody has any complaint, he should approach the judiciary.

And the judiciary should safeguards the rights of the people.



At the rally, the PTI chairman gave the prime minister an ultimatum to present himself for accountability in Panama Papers allegations by the end of Muharram.

Otherwise, he said, his party would shut down Islamabad and would not let the PML-N stay in power.



The nation is waiting for the next moves of Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf and the way the government deals with them.



During the week, the LHC sought replies from federal government and others in a petition questioning the job quota systems in Central Superior Services (CSS) and referred the matter to LHC Chief Justice as he has already seized of similar kind of case.



Justice Shamas Mehmood Mirza was hearing a petition of Atif Amin who contended through his counsel that under the Constitution job quota system was introduced and enforced for a period of 40 years, aiming at giving considerable share to remote provinces in federal services.

The petitioner was dropped from candidates’ list as another candidate was selected on quota system.



He argued that under the current CSS system, the quota system has lapsed and it should be declared unconstitutional.

He also pointed out that the similar nature of case is already pending the court of Chief Justice Mansoor Ali Shah.



Justice Mirza issued notices to federal government and federal public service commission and sent the petition to Chief Justice.



Besides this case, the court expressed dismay over not filing reply to a petition challenging the federal government decision of imposing 17 percent general sales tax (GST) on petroleum products and remarked that warrants of the petroleum secretary could be issued if order was not comply till next date of hearing.



During the Friday’s hearing, a deputy attorney general sought more time for filing reply.

He said that the secretary was abroad and reply could not be submitted.

The judge directed that if the secretary did not appear with reply till October 20, his warrants could be issued.

