http://classic.iol.co.za/capetimes/r9bn-more-for-higher-education-1.2084071
141
14
INLSA Minister of Finance Pravin Gordhan

FINANCE Minister Pravin Gordhan allocated additional funding for higher education as student protests continue at universities across the country.

Gordhan announced, a few moments after accepting a memorandum from students protesting outside Parliament yesterday, that a further R9 billion had been allocated towards the National Student Financial Aid Scheme – an increase of 18 percent.

More than R8 billion has also been allocated to meet the costs of fee increases for students from households with incomes of up to R600 000 a year, known as the “missing middle”.

This is in addition to the R16bn added to higher education funding in the budget tabled in February this year.

This money is expected to be channelled to institutions to avoid fee increases and allow more poor students to be funded.

Gordhan said the corporate sector and financial institutions would be expected to contribute to expand bursaries, loans and work opportunities for students.

He said the funding challenges facing the higher education sector should also be addressed by making “improvements in the entire education system”.

“Public expenditure on post-school education and training has in fact grown considerably faster than other budget allocations in recent years, and this will continue.

“At the heart of the issue is that access has expanded faster than resources.

"As a result, many students face financial hardships that undermine their ability to succeed academically.”

Graduates who are funded by government would be expected to pay back the money when they get employed.

“In seeking a balanced, sustainable roadmap for students finance, we appreciate that graduates who go on to earn higher incomes will in due course contribute a share of these gains to the next generation.”

The minister's announcement is likely to be welcomed by institutions like Tshwane University of Technology, which announced this week that it would not increase student fees for the 2017 academic year.

Gordhan also raised concerns about the violence that accompanied not only the student protests, but also community protests.

“Much more disturbing and more difficult is the rise in our own communities of anger and discontent, spilling over into violence and destructive protests.

“Violent protests signal unresolved social challenges. They present immense challenges to the leadership of our higher education institutions, municipalities and community organisations.

“Highly stressful demands are made on our police and security personnel.

"Destruction of property diminishes the inheritance of our children.”