http://leadership.ng/news/546664/arrest-prosecute-wuye-market-invaders-shop-owners-tells-igp
141
14
The Acting Inspector General of Police, Mr. Ibrahim Idris has been urged by shop owners to urgently apprehend and prosecute those behind a recent invasion of Wuye Market in Abuja.

This appeal was contained in a statement made available to LEADERSHIP yesterday, by some concerned shop owners under the leadership of Hajia Zainab Ali.

It would be recalled that a human right activist, Mrs Chinwe Aloysus, had last week berated those who are parading themselves as members of the Association of Wuye Ultra Modern Market Allottees (AWUMMA), saying that their protest against the wife of former governor of Benue state, Ach. Yemisi Suswam was a criminal act.

According to them, the Acting Inspector General of Police should urgently take a step in order to avoid further lawlessness by those who are parading themselves as members of the Association of Wuye Ultra Modern Market Allottees (AWUMMA).

They lamented how the invaders have been looting their goods on daily basis under the pretense of protesting for a right that never exists.

They urged the IGP to prevent the invaders from further harassing the original shop owners who had met all the necessary requirements to acquire shops in the Market.

“These invaders have since been advised by a High court in Abuja to pay ground rent and other statutory charges as a yardstick to own shops legally at Wuye Market but instead of doing that, they have been breaking peoples’ shops and stealing from innocent and original shop owners.

“As a matter of fact, the invaders are carrying out their unlawful acts without making the payments as ordered by the court. They now rob those who have fulfilled their own part of the agreement randomly and we want the federal government to do something immediately.

“They are also extorting money from gullible members of the public promising them shop in the market. Whose mandate do they have to collect public fund when they don’t want to pay the custodians / builders of the market” they said in a statement obtained by journalists on Monday evening