http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/pmqs-live-jeremy-corbyn-theresa-9128071
141
14
Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

The video will start in

13:03 Who won PMQs? There was a time when Labour MPs used to watch PMQs with their hands over their eyes. They barely dared look as their leader stumbled through his six questions only to flayed by a bullying David Cameron. Now the backbenchers are almost starting to look forward to the what used to be a half hour from hell. Read political editor Jason Beattie’s full verdict here. Poll loading …

12:43 tweet Twitter's verdict: May doesn't answer the questions We’re done and Twitter’s verdict is...

12:40 key event PM attacked over mental health for THIRD time Labour MP Luciana Berger attacks the PM’s claim that there are “record levels” of funding going into mental health. Why then are 57 CCGs reducing the proportion they spend on mental health, she asks. “Yet another broken promise,” she fumes. “When will we have real spending on mental health in our country?” Asked by a fourth MP she says more people are accessing talking therapies since 2010. The PM adds it’s right that we “need to continue to do more”.

12:38 PM stumbles as she faces fury over Heathrow - from a Tory South west London Tory MP Tania Mathias is on the warpath over Heathrow expansion and gives the PM both barrels.

She says the Heathrow plan “is not good enough and cannot possibly be both bigger and better”. “The, er,” the PM replies, giving a telling delay at the despatch box. Mrs May - who wiped criticism of Heathrow from her website - soon regains her feet despite her own history. “The government looked very closely at this issue of air quality and environmental impact,” she insists.

12:36 Theresa May hits back at criticism over the number of child refugees taken from the Calais Jungle. She says Britain is the second-biggest bilateral donor to Syria.

12:35 tweet PMQs nearly over - and Twitter only has two things to say PMQs is over - and Twitter only has two things to say.

The first is about the PM and Jeremy Corbyn’s to-and-fro about Baldrick: The second is about Corbyn’s failure to mention the Goldman Sachs tapes: Then there’s always Mhairi Black:

12:33 'Were your mental health pledges just words?' Labour MP Alison McGovern returns to mental health. She says it was a Tory manifesto pledge to improve mental health care, putting it on a level with physical health. “As prescriptions for antidepressants still rise” her constituents in Wirral need talking therapies. But they wait a month for referral and well over four months for treatment. “Was that Tory manifesto just words or will the Prime Minister ever deliver?” The PM appears irritated, saying she gave a “serious answer” on this earlier. She adds: “This is something the government is working on and we will continue to work on it.”

12:29 'Work with the industry to stop alcohol problems' Labour MP Jim Dowd raises a worrying report showing the rising amounts of alcohol consumption in the UK - especially among women. The PM replies she was part of the government’s alcohol strategy. “At that time we were working well with industry to ensure they could take steps,” she says.

12:27 PM insists NI will remain peaceful after Brexit The PM says the Chilcot report was “important” but it did not say people “set out deliberately to mislead”, he says. The SDLP’s Alasdair McDonnell asks again about the effect of Brexit on Northern Ireland - this time on the Belfast agreement. “There remains strong support for the entirely peaceful future for Northern Ireland,” she says.

12:25 key event MP tells heartbreaking tale of nephew who killed himself Labour MP Karl Turner reveals the heartbreaking story of his 25-year-old nephew, who killed himself after a period of depression. He was warned it would be “at least six months” before he got an appointment, the MP tells the Commons. “These treatments in the NHS are often a dangerous waiting game and a postcode lottery,” he warns. The PM thanks him for showing the nation “the terrible tragedy that can occur when mental health problems are not properly dealt with.” In conciliatory tone she insists the Tories are tackling problems in funding for mental health.

12:21 key event PM ducks meeting about child sex abuse inquiry Labour MP Helen Hayes hits out over the chaos-hit independent child sex abuse inquiry. Victims’ groups have raised “serious concerns”, she says. She demands a meeting between the PM, herself and fellow Labour MP Chuka Umunna. The PM - who confessed last week she’d heard “stories” and “rumours” about the previous chair Lowell Goddard - replies it’s a “very important point”. But she ducks a meeting, saying the inquiry is independent. “I will certainly ensure the Home Secretary has heard the honourable lady has made”, she adds.

12:19 'Stop these Russian ships unleashing death on civilians' SNP Westminster leader Angus Robertson demands to know what action plan there is for Syria. The PM replies there must be a “number of tracks”. She raised the issue of Russian bombing of Aleppo at the EU Council - “it was only on the agenda because the UK raised it”. She warns Britain will take “all available actions” to put pressure on Russia “to stop their indiscriminate bombing of innocent civilians”. But Mr Robertson refers to the Russian warships that crossed through the English Channel only last week. He says new airstrikes will be “unleashed by Russian airpower that’s currently steaming across the Mediterranean.” And he demands action to stop Spain letting Russian ships refuel. The PM replies that “sadly” they won’t change what Russia is already doing. She adds: “On the high seas they are able to travel as they wish.”

12:15 key event Corbyn demands UK ends arms sales to Saudi Corbyn steers onto a dramatically different topic for his last two questions. The PM defends Britain’s relationship with Saudi Arabia - including selling it weapons - in the name of stopping terrorists. But a Yemeni man who lives in Liverpool told Jeremy Corbyn the bombing of Yemeni civilians by Saudi, with British-made weapons, risks being the “forgotten crisis”. Labour’s leader adds: “If people aren’t being killed by bombs, it’s hunger that kills them. The UK needs to use its influence to help the people of Yemen. “If there are war crimes being committed then, as the UN suggests, they must be investigated. “Isn’t it time the UK suspends its arms sales to Saudi Arabia?” She claims she spoke to the crown prince of Abu Dhabi at the weekend about finding a “political solution”, which is the only solution that’ll work and give “stability”.

12:12 key event Corbyn compares PM to Blackadder's Baldrick Corbyn says he’s ‘consulted the great philosophers’ for the meaning of the PM’s Brexit plan. He’s been ‘thinking’ about it. Tory MPs jeer so loudly that James Cleverly gets told off. Mr Corbyn forges on: “It’s Baldrick, who says ‘our cunning plan is to have no plan’!” Brexit was apparently about taking back control but devolved governments, businesses and Parliament don’t know the plan. “When will the PM abandon this shambolic Tory Brexit and have a plan that delivers for the whole country?” The PM shoots back: “Of course, the actor playing Baldrick was a member of the Labour party, I recall!”

12:09 'Stop dithering over Brexit, PM!' “Every day the PM dithers over this chaotic Brexit” causes more uncertainty for business. “This cannot carry on until March next year. When is the Prime Minister going to come up with a plan?” She replies it’s Labour who want to “frustrate the will of the British people”.

12:07 'None of us' want to see Irish border controls The PM shoots back that Corbyn “tries to poke fun at the phrase Brexit means Brexit”. She says it “means we’re coming out of the European Union” - and Corbyn is trying to “frustrate the will of the British people”. Corbyn asked if she can rule out a hard border between Northern Ireland and the Republic. “None of us want to see a return to the borders of the past,” she replies. But Mr Corbyn warns Northern Ireland could come out of the customs union. But she says they are “two different issues”, which “shows why it’s important that it is this party that’s in government and not his.” Corbyn glowers over his glasses.

12:06 key event “I’m sure she’ll tell us one day what Brexit means” Onto a policy question, Corbyn asks the PM to guarantee that Britain will stay in the single market - a demand made by the Scottish and Welsh leaders. The PM begins: “Can I commend [Mr Boles] for willing to be so open about the health problem that he has.” She adds - to scoffs from Labour - “I have been very clear and I will be clear again.” But she doesn’t commit to anything. “I thought for a moment the PM was going to say Brexit means Brexit again!” jokes Corbyn. “I’m sure she’ll tell us one day what it actually means”.

12:04 Corbyn's tribute to Tory MP with cancer Jeremy Corbyn starts by welcoming child refugees who arrived in the last few days. And he says MPs “reach out the hand of support and solidarity and friendship” to colleagues having health problems. He’s talking about Nick Boles, who said he had cancer this morning. He says he hopes the recovers as quickly as possible.

12:03 We start with cheesy plugs for the Black Country Tory MP James Morris kicks things off by praising the industrial heritage of the Black Country. And he calls for devolved powers and funding to the West Midlands, giving a cheesy plug for mayoral candidate Andy Street. The PM replies: “The devolution deal is important. It’s the biggest devolution deal that is being done for the West Midlands.”

12:01 breaking news Here we go... It seems to be late every week these days, but PMQs has actually started on time.

11:58 How will the Richmond Park by-election shape up? Sarah Olney is the Lib Dem candidate in the Richmond Park by-election - well, for now. She just told the BBC’s Daily Politics she is “currently” the candidate to take on Zac Goldsmith, but there’ll be a shortlist. Will we see the return of ex-finance chief and Strictly boogier Sir Vince Cable, who lost a neighbouring seat? The Tories have deprived Zac a ‘Heathrow Referendum’ by refusing to put up a candidate. This morning Shadow Business Secretary Clive Lewis said Labour (which has a measly 12% in the seat) should NOT field a candidate either. He told Emma Barnett on BBC Radio 5 live: “This is an opportunity to stand an anti-Conservative candidate, not just about Heathrow, but about Brexit. “It’s an opportunity to give Theresa May’s Government a good kicking.”

But Shadow Housing Secretary John Healey just told the BBC’s Daily Politics the party will have a candidate.

11:51 A tough backbench line-up for today Here’s today’s running order for backbenchers to grill the PM. Look out for Alison McGovern, who’s leading the Parliamentary campaign for action to save civilians in Syria. Brexiteer Christopher Chope could haul Theresa May over the coals about her EU plan after her leaked comments to bankers. And anti-Heathrow Tory MP Stephen Hammond has a bit of a bee in his bonnet too...