http://dev.thedailystar.net/backpage/frustration-probe-sees-little-progress-1273015
144
14
Relatives of architecture student Afsana Ferdaus expressed frustration at the police's failure to ascertain the place of her death.

Amid a series of protests in the capital and elsewhere in the country, Afsana's relatives and friends wondered what the law enforcers were doing in probing her unnatural death.

Her maternal uncle Hasanuzzaman Mintu said police should have identified the place from where his niece was taken to Al Helal Hospital in the city's Mirpur.

Tawfique Elahi, another uncle of Afsana, said police could not even trace the driver of the CNG-run three-wheeler in which she was taken to the hospital.

On August 13, two men took the body of Afsana, a final-year architecture student at SAIC Institute of Management and Technology, to the hospital and left the area without informing anyone, said hospital sources.

Following the incident, police filed an unnatural death case with Kafrul Police Station. They, however, said Afsana was not taken to the hospital from her rented house at Manikdi.

Her brother Fazle Rabbi blamed Tejgaon College Chhatra League leader Habibur Rahman Robin for the death.

Meanwhile, protests were held in her home district Thakurgaon and Narayanganj yesterday demanding trial of her “killers”.

Shikder Shamim Hossain, officer-in-charge of Kafrul Police Station, said they were hunting for Robin.

“We will be able to learn a lot once Robin is arrested,” he told The Daily Star.

Mithun Dhali, general secretary of Tejgaon College unit BCL, said Robin was an activist of the pro-Awami League student organisation.

Robin stopped communicating with fellow BCL men a few days ago, said Mithun.

PROTESTS CONTINUE

People in Pirganj upazila of Thakurgaon formed a human chain at Pirganj intersection yesterday, demanding immediate arrest and exemplary punishment of the perpetrators.

The upazila unit of Bangladesh Chhatra Union organised the programme, reports our Thakurgaon correspondent.

Speakers at the programme said although over a week has gone by since Afsana's death, police were yet to pick up the suspects.

In Narayanganj, Chhatra Union activists formed a human chain in front of Narayanganj Press Club in the afternoon over similar demands, reports a correspondent.