http://www.standardmedia.co.ke/ureport/story/2000219256/your-say-raila-odinga-warns-jubilee-of-looming-2017-revolution
141
14
Libyans, Egyptians and Syrians are paying a price and regret why they chose that path. No wonder Uganda is being cautious about the pipeline and SGR... they see trouble ahead. BlankzWhat does a revolution using ID cards and voters’ cards mean to you? KumusenoRevolution using voter IDs means nothing, but when understood usingand reading between the lines, it means anarchy and chaos until RAO ascends to the throne. SufkimYou are wrong because you do not understand history. Before Obama and his neo-Nazis overthrew the Green Revolution in Libya and killed Gaddafi, Libya had the highest per capita GDP in Africa and a better economy than some European countries. Today, there is no Libya. Before Obama started arming the Free Syrian Army aka ISIS, Syria was doing well. Today Syria is a no-go zone. When the Egyptians took to the streets in Egypt, it was Obama who ended up salvaging the current government against its own people. Next year, Kenya will return to its own people without Obama and Uhuru in office. OtengaDreams are valid. Lupita said so. What was the actual statement behind what she said? Was she talking to her father’s boss? Can we interrogate her statement off the Oscar floor? MlachakoWhat about Musalia - I hear he is also in the CORD mix. Julius NjuruLet him try and see what FIRE is! Ochuka left! He will be following him soon enough. MuhubiriMoi was ousted in 2002 without bloodshed. That kind of ‘revolution’. Livera DavenWe have different forms of revolutions including spiritual revolution. It does not have to be military like you think. WycliffeA revolution is the forcible overthrow of a government or a social order in favour of a new system as occurred in Russia in 1917 and which dismantled the Tsarist autocracy. Can you draw relevance to this with regards to Kenya since we are already a democracy? No, the only revolution option for RAO would be to outlaw the Constitution using the youth, like they did in the Arab Spring countries, by unleashing chaos and mayhem. SufkimSo what can you do? It is such empty threats from your ilk that will return to bury you. RAO talked of a revolution through the ballot. Jakom

Killers only think of blood; you killed Ochuka for your own coup; who said revolution with IDs is wrong? Zambe