http://nation.com.pk/national/26-Oct-2016/indian-envoy-summoned-over-loc-violations
145
14
ISLAMABAD - Pakistan yesterday launched investigations into the Quetta carnage keeping in view the India-link amid high tensions with New Delhi.

However, Pakistan fell short of outrightly accusing India of orchestrating the Quetta attack on the police training centre that killed at least 61, most of them fresh police recruits.

In September India had straightaway pointed finger at Pakistan for an attack on an Indian military base in Uri that left 19 soldiers dead.

A senior official at the foreign ministry told The Nation that Pakistan did not rule out Indian hand in the attack but will not hurl allegations until there is solid evidence.

“Unlike India, we will rely on the results of investigations but we are keeping this link in mind,” he said.

Yesterday, Pakistan was mourning the terror attack on the police training college in Quetta. Three gunmen from a Taliban-linked group burst into the sprawling academy, targeting sleeping quarters that are home to some 700 recruits, sending terrified young men fleeing.

Another official said it was an open secret that India was spoiling peace in Pakistan and was especially active in Balochistan.

“The India-link will be probed but we will wait for the investigation reports before taking the issue to New Delhi. For the time being we are asking them to stop inference in Pakistan,” he added.

Also yesterday, Indian Deputy High Commissioner JP Singh was summoned to the foreign office to protest against the Working Boundary violations by India.

Foreign office spokesman Nafees Zakaria said the Indian deputy high commissioner was summoned and strong protest was lodged with him over the recent unprovoked ceasefire violations by the Indian troops at the Working Boundary in Phuklian and Chaprar sectors.

“These violations had resulted in the martyrdom of two civilians including one and a half-year-old innocent baby girl. Six civilians were also injured as a result of the Indian shelling,” he said.

He added: “It was conveyed to the Indian side that it should investigate the incident and share the findings with Pakistan, instruct its troops to respect the ceasefire in letter and spirit and refrain from intentionally targeting the villages and maintain peace on the Working Boundary.”

Earlier yesterday, Indian troops once again resorted to unprovoked firing along the LoC and Working Boundary at Bhimber and Chaprar sectors. According to Inter-Services Public Relations, Pakistani troops gave befitting response to the Indian firing.

The latest incident happened as escalation along the LoC, which divides the two neighbours in the disputed Kashmir, has been seen since militants attack on an Indian army camp in the Occupied Kashmir on September 18, killing 19 soldiers.

The Indian military blamed the Pakistan-based ‘Jaish-e-Mohammad’ group and also pointed fingers at Pakistan. Islamabad rejected the charges and suggested independent investigation.

Pakistan and India had declared ceasefire in 2003 that had silenced the guns. However, firing exchanges do take place time to time across the border and shelling has increased in recent days.

Defence analyst Lt General (r) Raza Muhammad Khan said India was bent upon ruining peace in Pakistan and was playing victim before the world.

“They are involved in terrorism in Pakistan and are violating ceasefire on the LoC and Working Boundary. Is this not an enough evidence of their double standards,” he said.

General Khan said India was involved in unrest in Balochistan and using Afghanistan’s soil to disturb peace in Pakistan.

Another defence analyst (r) Brigadier Mehmud Shah said Indian troops were breaking records of human rights violations in Kashmir and were active in Pakistan to promote terrorism.

“Indian government and people have realized the fact that it is impossible to control Kashmir movement now,” he said, adding, “They are now trying to play with peace in Pakistan.”

Shah said India was more active in Balochistan and tribal areas to achieve its goals of unrest in Pakistan.