http://en.farsnews.com/newstext.aspx?nn=13950720000399
141
14
World

Intense Street Battles Underway between Syrian Army, Terrorist Groups across Aleppo

TEHRAN (FNA)- Syrian Army soldiers and popular forces have been engaged in tough street battles with Jeish al-Fatah terrorist coalition in the Eastern, Southern and Southwestern districts of Aleppo city, gaining the upper-hand over the militants with the air support of the Syrian and Russian aircraft, sources said Tuesday.

"Syrian government forces stormed Jeish al-Fatah's positions in Housing Project 1070 near al-Hamdaniyeh district from different flanks to take back strategic positions there," the source said.

"Russian fighter jets, for their part, pounded Jeish al-Fatah's defense lines in project 1070 and Jam'iyat al-Mohandeseen neighborhood in the Western part of Aleppo city," they added.

"The Syrian warplanes also bombed terrorists' bases near the village of Qabtan al-Jabal in the Western countryside of Aleppo, destroying several vehicles of militants," the sources went on to say.

"Jeish al-Fatah's strongholds in the Southern districts of Aleppo in Sheikh Saeed also came under the Syrian air raids," they said, adding that militants sustained at least 23 casualties in the assault.

"Syrian soldier also clashed with Jeish al-Fatah in Suleiman al-Halabi in the Eastern part of Aleppo city and opened their way into one of the main buildings there," the sources added.

Yesterday, Syrian Army troops and their Iraqi allies engaged in tough street-battle with Nouralddeen al-Zinki and Fatah al-Sham Front (the al-Nusra Front) in the Southern neighborhoods of Aleppo city and became very close to wining back the entire district.

"Nouralddeen al-Zinki and Fatah al-Sham Front have suffered a heavy death toll in clashes with the Syrian soldiers and the Iraqi al-Nujaba movement in and outside Sheikh Saeed districts," the sources said.

"Syrian government forces have gained the upper-hand in Sheikh Saeed and are pushing back the terrorists out of the district," they added.

"Eight terrorists have been captured and more than 30 militants have been killed in al-Nujaba's attacks on terrorists' centers in Sheikh Saeed," the sources went on to say.

Sheikh Saeed heights overlook al-Ameriyeh and al-Sakariyeh regions North of Aleppo cement factory.