http://www.india.com/news/india/live-uddhav-thackeray-addresses-shiv-sena-dussehra-rally-1550509/
141
14
Live Updates

Load More

Political leaders and lakh of Shiv Sena workers across Maharashtra will be gathering on Tuesday evening at Shivaji Park Ground in Dadar for the Annual Shiv Sena Dusshera Rally. Uddhav Thackeray-led Shiv Sena is likely to brief out party’s strategy for upcoming Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) elections and several important issues. The party has been gearing up for the Mumbai civic polls, which are scheduled for early 2017.

This years Dusshera rally hold special significance for Shiv Sena, as the party has been looking forward to not only BMC elections but also nine other municipal corporation polls. Reservation for Marathas is assumed to be another very important issue to be raised during the rally. Shiv Sen is expected to speak about the surgical strikes too,carried out by Indian Army, mandated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Shiva Sena has also been eyeing on Assembly elections to be held next year in states such as Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Goa, Uttarakhand. Uddhav Thackeray’s Shiva Sena is pepping up themselves and plan to sweep away BJP party from these states.

Shiv Sena and BJP have had tough time because of their stressed out partnership, with later’s increasing number of MLA’s in Maharastra it gained upper hand over the former. In today’s rally, the party might announce of their plans to solo feat in 2017 elections. During last years rally, Shiv Sena openly criticized BJP’s ‘acche din’ propaganda. Shiv Sena and BJP have been involved in intense war of words over the civic body elections. Shiv Sen has been controlling BMC for over two decades now along with BJP being their small alliance. Shiv Sena looks forward to gaining upper hand over their BJP alliance in the upcoming BMC and Thane elections.

In it’s 50th year now, the Shiv Sena Dusshera rally, would see large number of footfalls at the Shivaji Park Ground. The ground has been lit up in lights and readied for attendees. Shivaji Park has been the venue for the annual event for more than a decade. With the Golden Jubilee rally, Shiv Sena appears to position themselves into issues of not only the state by of national interest too.