http://dev.thedailystar.net/city/demo-halls-creates-tailback-1271587
141
14
Jagannath University (JnU) students yesterday blocked a major road in front of the capital's Jatiya Press Club to press home their demand for residential halls on the land of the recently shifted Dhaka Central Jail, creating huge tailbacks in the nearby areas.

School goers and people suffered badly due to the demonstration that started around 10:30am. Vehicles on the nearby roads also got stuck for around an hour.

The students observed a two-hour sit-in after police foiled their attempt to besiege the education ministry at the secretariat.

Before closing the programme around 12:50pm; Monirul Islam Rajon, one of the protestors, declared boycotting all academic activities including exams at their university today.

The students then marched towards the campus, clearing the roads.

Prior to that, students gathered on the campus around 9:30am and marched towards the ministry.

Breaking police barriers at Raysaheb Bazar, Tanti Bazar, Bangshal and Gulistan, the agitating students moved forward.

Driven away by police, they later took to the street and chanted slogans like “we do not want to stay in messes” and “give us residential halls”.

They also chanted slogans against the university authorities for their failure to meet the students' accommodation need.

“We have been demonstrating for the last 14 days, but nobody is paying heed. So, we decided to come out of our campus to realise our demands,” Ronia Sultana, a master's student, told The Daily Star.

The JnU students have been waging movement on their campus with a demand to erect four dormitories on the land of the central jail in old Dhaka to solve their accommodation crisis. University authorities also wrote to the home ministry in this regard.

Pushpita Das Peu, a second-year student of philosophy, said, “We have to shift from one mess to another every couple of months. We feel insecure; we want residential halls at any cost.”

Many students who are staying in messes said they are being harassed by police, house owners and different intelligence agencies.

Prof Noor Mohammad, the university proctor, visited the spot around 11:50am and tried to calm the students. Talking to the reporters, he said, “The students' demands for residential halls are rational, we also want dormitories for them but the demonstration should not cause sufferings to people.”

“It should be done in a systematic and organised way,” he added.