http://nation.com.pk/lahore/19-Oct-2016/court-staff-out-against-lawyers-lawlessness
141
14
LAHORE - The Lahore district courts employees yesterday demonstrated against the highhandedness allegedly meted out to their colleague by some advocates.



The employees walked out of the courts up to judges’ gate of the Lahore High Court against high-handedness of a group of lawyers.



They alleged that Advocate Malik Imran and his associates manhandled court-reader Muhammad Faisal at Aiwan-i-Adal on a petty dispute erupted after they inquired of him location of a courtroom and he failed to guide them properly.



All the readers at civil and sessions courts, suspended their official work as soon as they learnt about the alleged incident.

They gathered at the court premises and marched towards the high court.



They stated that manhandling of the lawyers with the court staffers has become a routine matter.



LHC Registrar Khurshid Anwar Rizvi took notice of the protest and called the employees to his office for dialogue where District & Sessions Judge Nazeer Ahmad Gajana and district bar association president Arshad Jahangir Jhojha also reached.

The registrar asked the protestors to go back to work and furnish complete details of the alleged incident in writing.



The protestors were assured of prompt action on the matter.

Thereafter they dispersed and resumed their duties.



Kasur scandal suspect summoned

An LHC division bench yesterday issued notice to the accused and complainant of the Kasur sex scandal case on a petition moved by the Punjab government against withdrawal of anti terrorism sections from the matter.



On March 1, ATC Judge Chaudhry Muhammad Ilyas had ordered to drop terrorism charges from the case while accepting application of the accused.



The LHC bench headed by Justice Abdul Sami Khan issued notice to the party for October 27, when the matter will be taken up for further hearing.



On behalf of the Punjab government, Deputy Prosecutor Khurram Khan submitted that the Kasur scandal (wherein over 250 children were allegedly sexually abused and filmed for marketing) brought bad name to the country as well as spread a wave of horror across Punjab.

He held many children faced humiliation while dignity of their respective families was also hurt.



The police in accordance with the law put sections of Anti Terrorism Act but the ATC court ordered to drop these charges against the law, the deputy prosecuter said and requested the court to order restoration of these acts.



The Ganda Singhwala (Kasur) Police had registered 31 cases against 20 accused.

Of them 25 cases were registered under sections 506, 293, 387, 386 and 377 of the Criminal Procedure Code and sections of ATA.



After the ATC dropped terrorism sections, the cases were transferred to the court of additional district and session judge.

