http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/725550/Russia-warships-Gibraltar-Baltic-Sea-Vladimir-Putin-backs-down-refuelling-Spain
141
14
GETTY - DOVER MARINA Swedish Defence Minister Peter Hultqvist says Russia's manoeuvres are worrying

The two ships were thought to stay put in the Mediterranean, where they were due to refuel in Spain before making their way towards Syria. But instead the battle group has moved through the North Sea and passed through the Great Belt around Denmark and into the Baltic Sea.

It is believed the ships are on their way to Russia’s baltic enclave Kaliningrad, which used to house anywhere between 100,000 and 300,000 troops during the Soviet era. However the journey has raised eyebrows among Russia’s Baltic neighbours, who say they are concerned about the deadly weaponry onboard the vessels.

DOVER MARINA Baltic states fear Russia could be trying to intimidate them

REUTERS It is believed the ships are on their way to Kaliningrad

This includes long-range missiles with a far greater range than the Iskander missiles that were recently transferred to the Baltic territory. Swedish Defence Minister Peter Hultqvist said: “This is worrying and it doesn’t do much to help relax things in the region. “It impacts all of the countries around the Baltic. We have information and are following the development, which is a change in our local area. “I receive rolling information in things like this.”

GETTY Nato allies, including Britain, had been following the battle group

This is worrying and it doesn’t do much to help relax things in the region. Swedish Defence Minister Peter Hultqvist

Poland's Defence Minister Antoni Macierewicz added: "This is an obvious cause for concern. Moving such ships on the Baltic sea changes the balance of power." NATO allies, including Britain, had been following the battle group as it mades it way around the coast of Europe. Russian relations with the rest of the Baltic regions have become more and more tense over recent months as Russia tries to show off its military might. Military strategy experts have said the move can be seen as posturing from Russia, and a show of power from Putin to serve as a warning to the West.

Putin's warships arrive at Dover: Russian attack fleet is spotted off the British coast Fri, October 21, 2016 Putin's armed fleet heads for Dover as Moscow moves ships from the Med to square up to Royal Navy vessels in 'Operation Sea Fist' Play slideshow Dover-marina.com 1 of 23 Putin's warships sail past the White Cliffs of Dover

Tomas Ries said: “You can see it as a political marker. Putin is very much aware that this will gain attention. It is a demonstration of power. “In military terms it means they can hit targets over the whole of the Nordic region and that they have a high standard of weapons to challenge other ships up here.” Last week, Russia moved an aircraft carrier, a nuclear powered battleship and six other vessels past the Norwegian island of Andoya on its route to Syria - in what was described as the “biggest demonstration of Russian military power in the Norwegian sea for several years”.

DOVER MARINA Russia dropped its request to refuel in Spain enclave of Cueta