http://www.express.co.uk/news/royal/720102/Kate-Middleton-Duchess-Cambridge-Girl-with-Pearl-Earring-Holland
140
14
GETTY Kate paid homage to the work by the 17th century artist Johannes Vermeer, Girl with a Pearl Earring

In what appeared to be a carefully choreographed piece of royal theatre, Kate paid homage to the work by the 17th century Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer, which inspired a 2003 film starring Colin Firth, Scarlett Johansson, and Cillian Murphy. It was, she told fans, her favourite painting in the Mauritshuis gallery in The Hague which she toured during a day of engagements in the Netherlands on her first solo overseas tour.

In a pale blue Catherine Walker skirt suit, she flew the flag for Britain with our third most important trading partner - the two nations do £68 billion of business with other a year - a day after Prime Minister Theresa May went to Holland in an effort to lay the ground for a favourable Brexit deal and new relationship with Holland outside the European Union. Kate, like other members of the Royal Family, will be expected to use her position to support the UK's efforts to help win trade deals with EU nations and other countries once Britain leaves the European Union. Inevitably, her visit yesterday was seen as an attempt to use the Royal Family's soft power in a charm offensive to prepare the way.

GETTY Kate was at the Mauritshuis gallery in The Hague during her visit to The Netherlands

Johannes Vermeer's Girl with a Pearl Earring - Meisje met de parel. pic.twitter.com/b2muMXTjy7 — Kensington Palace (@KensingtonRoyal) October 11, 2016

The Queen's most senior aide, her private secretary Sir Christopher Geidt, an accomplished operator on the diplomatic stage, accompanied her. His presence added to feverish speculation that Brexit was on the agenda but royal sources insisted he was there as a trustee of the Royal Collection, which has loaned 22 paintings for an exhibition of old Duch masters at the Mauritshuis, and to provide advice on her first solo overseas visit. Aides insisted it was a coincidence that she was visiting the Netherlands a day after Mrs May.

GETTY The Duchess flew the flag for Britain with our third most important trading partner

Other royal sources said the royal trip had been planned since before the EU referendum in June and said it had nothing to do with Brexit. "The visit has been organised because the Royal Collection loaned the paintings for the exhibition and the Dutch kindly extended an invitation to the Duchess, a dormer history of art student," a Kensington Palace spokeswoman said. Kate, who had to pull out of what had been planned as her first solo overseas trip, a visit to Malta in September 2014 due to severe morning sickness while pregnant with Princess Charlotte, met King Willem-Alexander for lunch.

GETTY Kate met King Willem-Alexander for lunch

Meganoid the robot shows The Duchess his best moves! pic.twitter.com/03K0bx0gSJ — Kensington Palace (@KensingtonRoyal) October 11, 2016