http://www.4-traders.com/KAROON-GAS-AUSTRALIA-LIMI-6497936/news/Brazil-oil-acquisition-to-transform-Karoon-Gas-23184238/
30
3
Karoon Gas Australia is on the cusp of a transformational Brazilian acquisition that would give it oil reserves rivalling that of Woodside Petroleum and make it a significant producer in its own right.

Two years after Karoon did a well-timed $US600 million deal to sell its Poseidon gasfield stake off Western Australia to Origin Energy (just three months before global oil prices tanked), managing director Bob Hosking is finally close to a deal amid low oil prices on which to spend the takings.

Having taken positions in Brazils Santos Basin in recent years, Melbourne -based Karoon is taking advantage of a big sell-off by state-controlled oil giant Petrobras and is close to securing interests in two fields at or close to production in the basin after a 12-month bidding process.

Karoon yesterday confirmed it has been awarded the right to negotiate a final agreement with Petrobras and conduct confirmatory due diligence for the acquisition of a 100 per cent operating interest in the Bauna project and a 50 per non-operating stake in the Tartaruga Verde development project.

The move pushed shares 14 per cent higher yesterday. It is believed the exclusivity period will run for six weeks. The deal, if it is finalised, has the potential to provide around 120,000 barrels per day of oil production for Karoon.

Bauna, which is just 40km from Karoons Echidna and Kangaroo prospects, is currently producing 45,000 barrels of oil a day and Tartaruga Verde is expected to come into production next year with peak output of 150,000 barrels a day.

Oil is produced at the Bauna field through the floating production and storage vessel Cidade de Itajai, which was producing at 80,000 barrels a day when the field first started. The spare capacity, beyond Baunas current 45,000 barrels per day, could provide synergies in the development of Kangaroo and Echidna.

Details on the fields are few and far between.

It has been reported the block that contains Tartaruga Verde has an estimated 350 million barrels of oil and that Baunas block contains about 200 million barrels, although it is unclear if the latter has been depleted by production.

The reserves would see Karoon rival Woodside on oil (but not gas) reserves and give it more oil reserves than Santos and Oil Search , whose reserves are predominantly gas.

It would set Karoon up as a decent sized choice for energy investors keen to get exposure to oil rather than gas.

Karoon is expected to bring in a partner if it finalises the deal and is understood to be in talks with potential candidates.

The Australians Data Room column reported last week that Woodside Petroleum and BHP Billiton may be interested in teaming up on Brazilian acquisitions..

No details have been given about the value of the purchase but it would expected to be more than $US1 billion , based on the reserves.

Karoon has about $480m in cash, which shows why it is keen to take on a partner to fund the deal.

Yesterday, Karoons shares rose 19c to a four-month high on the back of the announcement, adding to a 7 per cent gain on Thursday. But even after those gains, the companys market value of $390m is well below its cash balance. Despite being cashed up at a time of low oil prices, good assets have proven hard to find, with sellers hanging on as long as they can and buyers, particularly listed ones, unwilling to value assets at more than current depressed prices.