http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/us/philadelphia-airport-workers-plan-to-strike-during-dnc/ar-BBuFroX
141
14
© Jessica Kourkounis, Getty Images Philadelphia International Airport workers stage a rally for a $15 an hour minimum wage on July 19, 2016. They are planning to strike next week during the Democratic National Convention.

The fight to raise the minimum wage is headed to the doorstep of the Democratic National Convention, with local airport workers planning to go on strike when delegates descend upon Philadelphia next week.

Roughly 1,000 workers, including those who handle luggage, attend to passengers in wheelchairs and clean plane cabins, are expected to not show up for work in order to call attention to their demands for a $15 minimum wage and the ability to join the Service Employees International Union.

"It could be a one-day strike. It could be protracted,'' SEIU spokesman Marc Goumbri said, adding that a majority of the workers voted for the action on July 12. "But it’s going to occur while delegates are in Philadelphia" for the Democratic National Convention.

The work stoppage is the latest in a flurry of protests, rallies and walkouts staged at airports across the U.S., and is part of a broader movement by low-wage workers in industries ranging from child care to food service to boost pay to at least $15 an hour.

Those planning to strike work for vendors who provide services to Philadelphia International as well as the airlines that operate there. City officials and American Airlines, the airport's biggest carrier, say that they do not anticipate much of a disruption despite the fact that Democrats will be gathering in the city from July 25 to 28 to officially name Hillary Clinton the party’s presidential nominee.

“We have been in discussions with the airlines that may be impacted, and they have put contingency plans in place in case of a strike,’’ Ajeenah Amir, a spokeswoman for the city, said in an email.

American Airlines spokesman Matt Miller added that the carrier expects “impact on passengers to be minimal ... because the vast majority of individuals who support our operation in Philadelphia are direct employees of American.’’

Last year, when American reached a new lease with the city, the airline mandated that airport workers employed by subcontractors get paid a minimum wage of $12 an hour — a raise from the previous minimum of $7.25 an hour.

“SEIU endorsed the agreement,’’ Miller says noting that it also included four years of increases for vendors’ employees. “Protest of that agreement such a short time later seems misguided.”

Still, some of those workers say that even with their recent raise, making ends meet remains difficult.

“It’s still a struggle,’’ says Alfred Williams, a 29-year-old baggage handler who is employed by the subcontractor PrimeFlight. “We still have to play around with our money to figure out how we’re going to do this and that because the cost of living is so high.’’

Growing up, Williams says that his mother, a government employee, belonged to a union for 40 years. “If my mother had to take off, she knew the union was there to back her up,’’ he says, “and she knew her job would be there the next day. That’s all we want. ... We just want our $15 and a union.’’

PrimeFlight did not respond to calls seeking comment.

The workers have garnered the support of some of those expected to attend next week's Democratic gathering. House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi tweeted on Tuesday that she was “proud to stand in solidarity with workers in #PHLStrikeDNC.'' And convention delegate Susie Shannon has launched a petition to support the push for higher pay, adding that she will fly into New York rather than cross a picket line in Philadelphia.

“I’ll be flying into ... LaGuardia and driving into Philadelphia,’’ says Shannon. “Many of us fought for the Democratic Party National platform to support a $15 minimum wage. The airport workers campaign represents the need for workers to make a wage that lifts them out of poverty.’’