http://dailypost.ng/2016/10/14/rivers-apc-planning-campaign-anarchy-tam-george/
141
14
Rivers State Commissioner for Information and Communication, Dr Austin Tam-George, has raised an alarm over alleged plans by the State branch of the All Progressives Congress, APC, to launch a “campaign of anarchy” in Rivers State, in the coming weeks.

He said the APC might be working in close coordination with little known “civil society organizations and other faceless groups to instigate crisis in Rivers State”.

In a statement he issued on Friday, Tam-George noted that the plan included series of state-wide riots in apparent protest against the Rivers State government, and Governor Nyesom Wike’s role in challenging the impunity by officials of the Department of State Services, DSS, during the midnight invasion of the home of a federal judge in Port Harcourt last weekend.

The Commissioner alleged that the objective of the APC might be to create a “climate of lawlessness”, which he said could lead to bank robberies, attacks on strategic state assets, random assaults on young women in the streets, and scare mongering in places of worship.

“An attack on the Port Harcourt Prison facility in order to set prime suspects and die-hard criminals free, is central to the emerging APC plan,” the statement continues.

“The first wave of the planned APC riots might begin in the streets of Port Harcourt, and spread quickly to other parts of the state, such as Ogoni, Abua, Emohua and Oyigbo.

“Heavy monetary inducement for coordinators of the riots in each flash point or location is also being planned”.

Tam-George called on the security agencies to closely monitor the activities of Rivers State APC leaders in Abuja, Lagos and Port Harcourt, in order to forestall the breakdown of law and order in the State.

“Rivers State is safe, and the government will continue to work with the security agencies to keep it safe”, the commissioner said, while urging residents of the State to be vigilant as they go about their lawful businesses.

Tam-George called on Nigerians and the international community to hold the APC and its surrogates responsible for any sudden and coordinated outbreak of violence and robberies in the state.

Meanwhile, Governor Wike, has denied report that he bribed some Supreme Court justices to uphold his governorship election victory.