http://www.dnaindia.com/india/report-saarc-2016-protests-against-rajnath-continue-sharif-hails-new-wave-of-freedom-movement-in-kashmir-2240837
141
14
More than 2,000 activists of various religious and jihadi outfits in Pakistan protested against the visit of Indian home minister Rajnath Singh.

Upping the ante, Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif said Kashmir was witnessing a "new wave of freedom movement" and asked the diplomats to apprise the world that Kashmir was "not an internal matter" of India. Addressing the concluding session of the three-day Envoys Conference organised by foreign ministry , Sharif said, "resolution of the lingering dispute in accordance with the UN resolutions and the aspirations of the Kashmiri people is the corner stone of Pakistan's foreign policy".

"Today Kashmir is witnessing a new wave of freedom movement," Sharif said, needling India on a day when Home Minister Rajnath Singh arrived to attend the SAARC Interior Ministers' Conference.

"This movement is running into the bloods of third generation of Kashmiri people and the world has itself seen its intensity in the wake of July 8," Sharif said, referring to the killing of Hizbul commander Burhan Wani in Kashmir.

"The Kashmiri youth are writing new chapters of sacrifices to get the right to self determination," he said. "They have lost eyesight due to bullets but the desire for freedom is guiding them to the destination," he added.

He asked Pakistani envoys to apprise the world that "the Kashmir was not an internal matter of India".

"The ambassador should make the world feel that Kashmir is not the internal problem of India, as India already accepted it as dispute territory and the UN also declared it as a dispute between India and Pakistan," he said.

The conference was attended by envoys of Pakistan posted at Washington, Beijing, New Delhi, Afghanistan, UN New York, UN Geneva, Vienna, Brussels and Moscow among others.

Sharing his vision with the envoys, Sharif said that all bilateral issues with other regional countries should be solved though talks in a peaceful way.

"We cannot afford a conflict. If we became part of any conflict, then our progress in the social and economic fields would be affected," he said.

He said Pakistan wants peace in the world on the basis of honour, dignity and equality. "But our desire for friendly ties should not be considered as weakness. We believe in mutual interests, respect for sovereignty and non-interference in the affairs of others," Kashmir said.

Earlier, the Prime Minister's advisor on foreign affairs Sartaj Aziz told the concluding session that it was wrong to portray that Pakistan was facing isolation.

Pakistan s Permanent Representative to UN Maleeha Lodhi said the conference acquired special importance in view of the Prime Minister's directives to take stock of the current situation.

She said, "Kashmir remained top agenda of the conference in view of the indigenous Kashmir uprising in the backdrop". Lodhi said that in line with the Prime Minister s directive, she would step-up diplomatic campaign to highlight alleged human rights violations in Kashmir at the UN.

Huge protests against Rajnath's visit

Pakistani Kashmiri protesters torch an Indian flag as they block a main highway ahead of the arrival of Indian Home Minister Rajnath Singh in Islamabad on August 3, 2016, to protest his visit to Pakistan to attend the SAARC Home Ministers conference. (AFP)

More than 2,000 activists of various religious and jihadi outfits in Pakistan protested against the visit of Indian home minister Rajnath Singh, accusing him for the unrest in Kashmir.

Activists of All Parties Hurriyat Conference, Hizbul Mujahideen, United Jihad Council (UJC) and other such group protested to denounce Singh's trip to attend the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) ministerial conference being hosted by Pakistan. Syed Salahuddin, the leader of militant outfit Hizbul Mujahidden, who is also chief of UJC, and local leaders of other groups were seen during the protest.

Another protest was organised by Mishal Malik, wife of Kashmiri leader Yasin Malik, in front of National Press Club. Yesterday, a JuD caravan led by Talha Saeed, the son of Mumbai attack mastermind Hafiz Saeed, had staged a sit-in at the Line of Control near Chakothi in Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK), where they were stopped by Pakistani security forces.

The protesters today continued their sit-in, demanding that India receives relief materials brought by them for Kashmiris.

A JuD statement said that it has no plans to leave the place unless India receives relief goods, dry food and medicines for the Kashmiris. Hafiz Abdur Rauf, chief of Falayh-i-Insaniat Foundation, a sister organisation of JuD, said many doctors and paramedical staff were also present in the sit-in. "These doctors and para-medical staff want to go Sri Nagar to treat our injured Kashmiri brethren," he said.

Various religious and jihadi outfits in Pakistan are opposed to Singh's visit as they held him responsible for the unrest in Indian Kashmir. Forty-nine people have been killed in Kashmir in clashes since Indian security forces killed Hizbul commander Burhan Wani on July 8.

Earlier, Hafiz Saeed has warned the government that Singh's presence in Islamabad may create "unrest" among Kashmiris as well as Pakistanis in the face of scores of killings in Kashmir.