http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3713618/Boycott-Byron-burger-Protesters-target-Osborne-s-favourite-chain-shopping-illegal-migrant-staff-revealed-chain-avoided-700-000-colluding-sting.html
141
14
Upmarket burger chain Byron is facing a boycott after conspiring with the Home Office to entrap illegal immigrant workers.

Restaurant-goers who are sympathetic with the plight of the ex-employees are staging a revolt using the slogan BoycottByron on Twitter in their thousands, while hundreds of Facebook users have been planning protests at restaurants.

It comes as it was revealed the fast-food firm has escaped a potential £700,000 fine by colluding in the sting.

Byron Burger has become a beacon for young foodies who consider themselves a touch above McDonald's or Burger King. The then Chancellor George Osborne was famously snapped tucking into one in 2013 (right)

In total 35 workers from Albania, Brazil, Mexico, Nepal and Egypt were held after being lured to early-morning raids on the pretext of attending staff meetings.

So far 25 have been deported. And with firms attracting a maximum penalty of £20,000 per illegal worker, Byron was facing a fine of £700,000.

Critics said immigration chiefs had treated Byron, a favourite with the former chancellor George Osborne, much more leniently than smaller companies caught employing illegal workers.

Keith Vaz, the chairman of the Commons’ Home Affairs Select Committee, said: ‘The decision of the Home Office not to fine Byron is most surprising and sends out the wrong message concerning the employment of illegal migrants.

‘Ministers have been strident in promising to pursue those who break the law. We have received many complaints from local businesses in exactly the same position who have been heavily fined and whose reputation has been tarnished as a result of Home Office raids.’

Under pressure: Byron has refused to comment on claims that up to 150 workers are in hiding after 35 colleagues from London restaurants were caught in an immigration sting allegedly set up by the company

Meanwhile the first insider account of the sting revealed how workers were summoned to a meeting about the dangers of cooking burgers medium and medium-rare. Others were told it was a discussion about a new recipe.

One employee, who did not want to be named, told the Daily Mail staff were asked to arrive at work at 9.30am despite the fact that most Byron branches open at 11.30am.

When they arrived at outlets across the capital, immigration officials turned up with documents containing their names and photographs and started to interview them.

The source claimed a disgruntled former employee reported the illegal workers to the police.

They said: ‘I think [the employee] might have been fired. They were sour about what had happened and reported people [working illegally] to the police.

‘The immigration system then investigated it and got in touch with Byron’s head office. The individual restaurants knew nothing at all. Because the area managers knew what was going to happen, they had already sorted moving people from one restaurant to another. Staff were relocated to stop any shortages.’

The sting has enraged fans of the chain. A Facebook group called ‘Protest: Shame on Byron – no one is illegal’ is planning a demonstration outside a central London branch next week, one of 56 outlets across the country.

The protest had 800 confirmed members on Facebook last night and a further 1,300 who are listed as ‘interested’. It is said to be co-hosted by groups including Global Justice Now and United Voices of the World Union.

Another protest took place outside Byron’s Bristol branch yesterday where banners read: ‘Exploits workers and shops them to Home Office #BoycottByron’.

A further demonstration is scheduled for the chain’s Shaftesbury Avenue, London branch, this evening.

Under the #BoycottByron banner on Twitter, many vented their disgust at the chain’s handling of the issue. Kevin Brady said: ‘It’s one thing complying with immigration laws but quite another engaging in entrapment. Disgusting.’

While Hannah Lincoln added: ‘Byron Burgers employed migrant workers then had them arrested and deported? How can the company get away with this but not the workers?’

Byron, which was founded by Tom Byng, (pictured, left) says it did not 'set up staff' but the Home Office has said the arrests were carried out ‘with the full co-operation of the business’. Keith Vaz (right), chairman of the Home Affairs Select Committee, said it was 'surprising' Byron had not been fined

However, others weren’t as sympathetic with the migrants’ plight.

Commenting on a Facebook post, Benjamin Khan said: ‘Well done Byron. Don’t we have enough illegals?’

Byron refused to comment on the allegations it had dodged a fine but said in a statement: ‘We can confirm that several of Byron’s London restaurants were visited by representatives of the Home Office.

‘These visits resulted in the removal of members of staff who are suspected by the Home Office of not having the right to work in the UK, and of possessing fraudulent personal and right to work documentation that is in breach of immigration and employment regulation.

‘The Home Office recognises that Byron as an employer is fully compliant with immigration and asylum law in its employment practices, and that Byron had carried out the correct “right to work” checks on staff members, but had been shown false/counterfeit documentation.’

A Home Office spokesman said: ‘We are absolutely clear that employers who intentionally flout the law to undercut wages, cheat the taxpayer and deny legitimate workers employment opportunities will face enforcement action. Our operation was carried out with the full co-operation of the business ... our investigations found Byron had done nothing to intentionally breach immigration law.’

Backlash: Some critics have left 1 star reviews on the official Byron Facebook page to accuse them of exploitation

A protest page on Facebook is organising a demonstration outside a Byron branch in central London on Monday. The demo is co-hosted by a number of groups, including Lesbians and Gays Support the Migrants



