http://www.vanguardngr.com/2016/06/account-freezing-ekiti-youths-protest-efcc-fg/
141
14
*Want anti-graft war to cover everyone

By Rotimi Ojomoyela

Ado-Ekiti — Hundreds of youths from tertiary institutions in Ekiti State, yesterday protested against what they tagged the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission’s, EFCC, selective anti-graft war, saying that President Muhammadu Buhari must ensure that his anti-corruption war cuts across board if indeed he desires to convince Nigerians that his administration stands for true change.

The students, who represented several tertiary institutions such as Ekiti State University, EKSU, Federal Polytechnic, Ado-Ekiti, POLYADO, Ikere College of Education, Ikere-Ekiti and College of Health and Technology, Ijero-Ekiti, among others, displayed placards with various inscriptions such as: ‘Nigerians are suffering under Buhari’s govt’, ‘Enough of political harassment in the name of fighting corruption’, ‘Buhari, obey court orders and respect human rights, we are in democracy!’ and ‘enough of selective anti-corruption fight by EFCC/ICPC among others.

They marched from the Fajuyi Park towards Ojumose roundabout in the state capital, Ado-Ekiti, chanting hate songs against the government.

Leaders of the various students, who include Ibrahim Oladimeji, (EKSU); Ayegbusi Paul, (PolyAdo), Oyebade Adeyemi (Ijero), Onilearo Gbenga, (College), addressed the crowd who followed them in droves.

President of the Student Union Government of EKSU, Oladimeji Ibrahim Adebayo, said: “We are here to express our solidarity and support for the government of Ekiti State. We want to tell the President that enough is enough! His corruption fight must be across the board. It must not be witch-hunting as it is now. Governor Ayodele Fayose cannot be silenced. Gov Fayose remains the voice of the voiceless as far as Nigeria is concerned.

“I’m a student, I do not belong to any political party, but what we are saying is that if the government wants to convince us that he is here for positive change. He should do so by following the rule of law. It is saddening that the government under President Buhari has no respect for the rule of law.”

Oyebade Adeyemi, who is the student Union President of the College of Health and Technology, Ijero-Ekiti, said: “We want to tell Mr. President that corruption fight against the our politicians should not be selective. As there are corrupt people in PDP, so there also corrupt politicians in APC. The government should not take the corruption war to PDP doorsteps alone. He should spread his dragnet to the APC, his own party and other parties. We are not here to support corruption, but we are saying that the government has not spread his anti-graft war across board. He is rather using it to witch-hunt the opposition.”

But a certain Mr. Gbenga Adedamola who introduced himself as President of Ekiti Youths Council, Ekiti State chapter said on the contrary, his association supports the corruption fight of President Buhari, but it must not be selective.