http://nation.com.pk/islamabad/20-Jul-2016/iiui-teachers-to-stage-protest-against-bog-on-22nd
141
14
Islamabad - The teaching community of International Islamic University Islamabad (IIUI) yesterday recorded their concern over keeping them away from the university’s decision making body, contrary to the practice in vogue in other apex educational institutions in the country.



The general body meeting of the academic staff association announced to hold protest demonstration on 22nd of this month in front of Faisal Mosque campus where the university’s board of governors is scheduled to hold its meeting.



President Academic Staff Association Prof Dr Zafar Iqbal said that generally the university’s syndicate or board of governors used to have representation from the academic staff but in case of IIUI they were kept at bay and no representation was given to the faculty in the decision-making body of the university.



He further highlighted the community’s grave concerns over the hardship cases, which have been lying with its board of governors since long and every time they give it a new twist instead of helping the teachers whose career was stuck due to the introduction of new promotion policies of Higher Education Commission in 2002.



President ASA Dr Zafar Iqbal demanded of the board of governors to show resilience to their demand of notification of internal teachers from the date of first selection board of a given advertisement.

He explained that this is injustice to the internal candidates applying for various teaching positions under one advertisement while get promotions from the date of meeting of the board of governors, which holds its meetings four times in a year.



This cruelty could only be seen at IIUI, while other universities give promotion to their internal candidates of one advertisement from one date regardless of occurrence their selection boards or meeting of BoG.

Usually, this is four months after closing date of applications against an ad.

President ASA has urged upon the BoG of IIUI to approve this genuine demand of the teaching community at once.



Showing their concern to the members of board of governors, the community has resolved that they would protest in front of Faisal Mosque campus of IIUI on July 22, 2016 and would carry placards to have their demands noticed by the BoG members.

Had there been their representation like other institutions of Pakistan, they would have pleaded and presented their case in the meeting of apex body.

