http://www.businessinsider.com/presentation-behind-buffalo-wild-wings-board-shakeup-2016-10
141
14
Buffalo Wild Wings is shaking up its board two months after an activist investor publicly ripped apart the company.

On Tuesday, the company announced it was appointing three new independent directors, with appointments effective immediately — a move that "deeply disappointed" Marcato Capital, the hedge fund that previously publicly criticized Buffalo Wild Wings' management.

With the new members and the retirement of two directors, Dale Applequist and Warren Mack, Buffalo Wild Wings is increasing the size of its board to nine people from eight.

James Damian, the chairman of Buffalo Wild Wings' board, said in a statement on Tuesday that Applequist and Mack's decision to "retire early upon our identification of three new, highly qualified directors demonstrates their commitment to enhancing Buffalo Wild Wings' governance through refreshment."

The new members are CBS Radio president Andre Fernandez, eBay executive Hal Lawton, and Levi Strauss & Co. CFO Harmit Singh.

The shake-up comes two months after Mick McGuire, the founder and CEO of Marcato Capital who has been called a Bill Ackman "protégé," released a harsh letter to Damian.

The letter accused Buffalo Wild Wings management of ignorance and inaction, and it demanded new board members. McGuire called for "interested shareholders" — like Marcato — to be consulted in adding new board members, calling independent changes "a hostile act of entrenchment."

Marcato, which has a 5.2% stake in Buffalo Wild Wings, said in a statement on Tuesday that the company is "deeply disappointed" by the new appointments.

"Rather than working collaboratively with its investors, Buffalo Wild Wings has opted to exercise poor judgment, taking entrenching actions to create the illusion of change without showing any real openness to new voices and desperately-needed new ideas," the statement reads.

Along with the letter, McGuire released a presentation in August that the hedge fund reportedly shared with Buffalo Wild Wings executives in June. Here are the slides: