http://www.4-traders.com/news/Germany-s-Angela-Merkel-Becomes-Unexpected-Greek-Ally-in-Migrant-Crisis--21935115/
164
16
By Anton Troianovski and Marcus Walker

BERLIN--Last summer, German Chancellor Angela Merkel stared down Athens in a debt-crisis showdown, forcing Greece to agree to tough austerity measures and spurring critics to cast her as a heartless hegemon.

Just eight months later, as Europe reels from a different crisis, she has become Greece's most important ally.

European governments are increasingly uniting around a strategy to stem the flow of migrants through the continent by preventing them from leaving Greece--Europe's main landing point for people fleeing the Middle East. The Greek government warns the strategy will lead to a humanitarian catastrophe. Some Greek officials say hundreds of thousands of refugees and other migrants could end up trapped in a country still reeling from its continuing economic crisis.

In a taste of the potential unrest to come, some of the thousands of people already stranded in northern Greece tried to force their way Monday through a razor-wire border fence that neighboring Macedonia recently erected. Macedonian police fired tear gas to disperse them.

Ms. Merkel, despite her pledge to reduce the number of asylum seekers coming to Germany, has emerged as Europe's most powerful voice against other countries' efforts to contain people in Greece by closing borders in the Balkans. She doubled down on that argument in unusually direct language in an hour-long interview on German television on Sunday night, insisting that border closures would lead to dangerous chaos in Greece. That, she said, would defeat the purpose of last year's efforts in the debt crisis to prevent the painstaking integration of Europe from unraveling.

"We can't simply abandon this country now," Ms. Merkel said of Greece. "When one country defines its border so that the other has to suffer--that is not my Europe."

Ms. Merkel's defense of Greece shows how much allegiances have shifted since she led the European Union's resistance to Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras's bid last year to renegotiate the terms of his country's bailout.

In the migrant crisis, Ms. Merkel's insistence that Europe avoid internal border closures and instead focus on preventing illegal crossings from Turkey to Greece has left her increasingly isolated. Germany's most important European partner, France, has been openly skeptical of Ms. Merkel's strategy, while its southern neighbor Austria broke with Berlin in February by declaring a daily cap on migrant arrivals.

That has left her in an unlikely alliance with Athens. For Greece's government, led by Mr. Tsipras's leftist Syriza party, Ms. Merkel has suddenly gone from the country's adversary to its main protector against an unwelcome and frightening isolation.

But some Greek officials are privately skeptical about whether Ms. Merkel can deliver on her Greece-friendly rhetoric. Many in Athens are aware that Ms. Merkel faces strong pressure in her own conservative camp to shut down the migration inflows by all means necessary, including border closures.

Many officials in Athens and, indeed, around Europe doubt that Ms. Merkel's strategy of inducing Turkey to cooperate in stopping migrants from crossing the Aegean Sea will yield results quickly. Once migrants leave Turkey's shore in dinghies procured from smugglers, it is proving difficult to stop them from reaching nearby Greek islands. The start of a NATO naval operation to help the Turkish coast guard spot and intercept dinghies was delayed by negotiations to resolve differences over how the deployment will work.

From the chancellor's perspective, her resistance to quarantining migrants in Greece and her tough love over Greece's financial bailout are consistent: Both stances are aimed at keeping Europe together. An acrimonious fissure between Greece and the rest of the eurozone and EU, German officials say, would have unpredictable consequences for Europe's stability.

"Do you really think that all the euro countries last year fought to the last--and we were the toughest--to keep Greece in the eurozone, only to plunge Greece into chaos, so to speak, a year later?" Ms. Merkel said in Sunday's interview. "Germany's responsibility must be to solve the problem not by burdening a single country, but together with all countries. That's how we did it in the euro crisis and that's also how we have to do it in the refugee crisis."

To some supporters of Mr. Tsipras's confrontational stance toward Berlin in the debt crisis, Ms. Merkel's call for respecting Greece's challenges felt jarring.

"I was surprised that she has a heart for Greece at all," said Bernd Riexinger, co-chairman of Germany's radical Left Party, which is allied with Mr. Tsipras's Syriza on the EU level. "But I don't believe that this heart for Greece beats all that loudly."

For Mr. Riexinger, as well as for many supporters of Mr. Tsipras in Greece, one problem is that for all of Ms. Merkel's words of concern, her government continues to take a tough line on Greece's bailout.

On Monday, spokesmen for German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schäuble and the chancellor said that Greece's bailout program and the EU help it would need to cope with migrants were two separate issues. Mr. Schäuble's spokesman said that on the bailout, Germany would be guided by the assessment of international institutions representing Greece's creditors, and in particular by the view of the International Monetary Fund.

"I would advise against combining these issues," said Eckhardt Rehberg, a lawmaker and budget specialist for Ms. Merkel's conservatives. "Europe is not a bazaar in which one thing can be traded for another."