http://www.mirror.co.uk/lifestyle/travel/cruises/welcome-board-cunards-space-ship-8990010
333
3
World's only cruise ship with its own planetarium marks Space Week with specially-themed transatlantic crossing from New York City

As the only cruise ship in the world with its own planetarium, Cunard’s QM2 is the perfect place to mark World Space Week, and a clutch of high-flying experts will be on board for a specially-themed transatlantic crossing next October.

They include NASA astronaut and Space Shuttle pilot Dr Jeffrey Hoffman; Charles Barclay, director of the Blackett Observatory at Marlborough College; Stephen Attenborough, commercial director of Richard Branson ’s Virgin Galactic; and NASA historian Ken MacTaggart.

Passengers flying into New York for the start of the crossing, on October 6 next year, will also be given a pre-cruise VIP tour of the city’s Hayden Planetarium and the Rose Centre for Space at the American Museum of Natural History, followed by a visit to the Intrepid Museum of Air, Sea and Space at Manhattan’s Pier 86.

The Planetarium on board QM2

Another retired astronaut, Scott Kelly, proved such a hit as a guest speaker on Crystal Serenity this summer that he has been invited back for a star turn on the luxury yacht Crystal Esprit.

Kelly, a veteran of four space flights, and three times a commander of the International Space Station, joins the 62-passenger Esprit for a 10-night cruise round-trip from Dubai on December 13.

Miss USA to name Carnival Vista

The reigning Miss USA, Deshauna Barber, is to be godmother at the delayed christening of Carnival Vista in New York on November 4. Barber is the first serving member of the US military to win the title, and Carnival has invited hundreds of military families to the event, which also features country music star Carrie Underwood.

The ship has spent its first summer cruising in the Mediterranean, but sets out for America in two weeks’ time.

Note of caution

Travellers who use Samsung Galaxy Note 7 mobile phones will have to leave them at home if they are taking a cruise.

After a number of reports of the handsets bursting into flames , almost all operators have banned passengers from bringing them on board.

@CaptGreybeard