http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3468741/Conservative-activist-wrote-suicide-note-telling-parents-d-bullied-Tatler-Tory-betrayed-boyfriend.html
160
16
The young activist whose death sparked the Tatler Tory scandal left a suicide note describing ‘bullying’, which was yesterday released by his parents.

Elliott Johnson, 21, killed himself on train tracks last September after a bitter row with former parliamentary candidate Mark Clarke.

In the note addressed to ‘Mum and Dad’, the activist described intense stress after the confrontation in which Mr Clarke, 38, threatened to ‘destroy him’. He also accused Mr Clarke’s henchman Andre Walker – who yesterday revealed he had been in a relationship with Mr Johnson – of ‘betraying’ him.

Elliott Johnson (pictured left), 21, killed himself on train tracks last September after a bitter row with former parliamentary candidate Mark Clarke (centre)

The tragic last message written by Elliot Johnson to his parents before killing himself

He wrote to his parents: ‘I love you so much I can’t explain. I failed in life despite your help, for which I am very thankful.

'These past few weeks have been the worst of my life. I find myself on the work scrapheap. My choice is end it now or wait till the death of my career when the money runs out.

EXCERPT FROM ELLIOTT'S NOTE Dear Mum and Dad, Well what can I say. By the time you read this I will no longer be here. Sorry. I love you so much I can’t explain. I failed in life despite your help, for which I am very thankful. These past few weeks have been the worst of my life. I find myself on the work scrapheap. My choice is end it now or wait till the death of my career when the money runs out. I have also been involved in a huge political issue. I have been bullied by Mark Clarke and betrayed by Andre Walker. Now all my bridges are burnt. Where can I go from here? I am sorry it has come to this and hope you can recover after a time. I want you to be together and get over my death. The help you have given me is truly awe-inspiring. It is hard to put it into words. I love you so much. Never forget this. I love Harriet and Charlotte [his sisters] too. I will see you soon: fate cannot keep us apart for ever. I will see you on the other side. I love you. I love you so much yet I must make this decision. It is hard for me but the rest of my life would be a never ending torture. That’s how I see it. Love you so much and the rest of the family. Elliott xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx

‘I have also been involved in a huge political issue. I have been bullied by Mark Clarke and betrayed by Andre Walker. Now all my bridges are burnt.’

The release of the note came just days after it emerged that the young activist had battled depression for years and found it hard to come to terms with his homosexuality.

A report prepared by British Transport Police for Mr Johnson’s inquest, which opens this week, details how he had tried to kill himself three times as a teenager.

In another note, the Nottingham University graduate described how his parents Ray and Alison had struggled with his sexuality.

Officers suggested the fact he would not give his parents grandchildren left him racked with guilt.

But Mr Johnson’s father, from Wisbech, Cambridgeshire, yesterday said he had never argued with his son about his sexuality and had just wanted him to be happy.

He added: ‘It is a travesty for anyone to blame us or his past troubles for his death.

‘There is only one place to look for the real blame: the Conservative Party. Elliott took his life because he had been picked on and bullied ... and let down by other organisations around the [party].’

Mr Johnson met Mr Clarke, once tipped as a future minister by Tatler magazine, after joining his Road Trip campaign for young Tories.

Mr Clarke was expelled from the party in the wake of the tragedy, but denies the claims against him.