http://www.business-standard.com/article/pti-stories/drake-rihanna-rekindle-romance-116022900074_1.html
164
16
Drake, Rihanna rekindle romance?

Drake and Rihanna are reportedly back together. The "Hotline Bling" hitmaker and 28-year-old songtress' romance looked to be back on track after they were spotted dancing and kissing at London's Libertine nightclub last week ahead of their steamy performance at the BRIT Awards, reported Femalefirst. And now the Canadian rapper, 29, is said to be "totally besotted" with the R&B superstar. "They're back together and Drake is totally besotted," a source said. His team have been teasing him about it but nothing can wipe the smile off his face." And of their behaviour at the club, the source added, "They were like a couple of teenagers - snogging and following each other around the club. It was like watching scenes from their new video when they danced together." The duo are believed to have been inseparable even since they arrived in London for the BRIT Awards, where they did a show-stopping performance of their song "Work" and showed millions of viewers their dance routine as ...

Drake and are reportedly back together.



The "Hotline Bling" hitmaker and 28-year-old songtress' romance looked to be back on track after they were spotted dancing and kissing at London's Libertine nightclub last week ahead of their steamy performance at the BRIT Awards, reported Femalefirst.



And now the Canadian rapper, 29, is said to be "totally besotted" with the R&B superstar.



"They're back together and Drake is totally besotted," a source said.



His team have been teasing him about it but nothing can wipe the smile off his face."



And of their behaviour at the club, the source added, "They were like a couple of teenagers - snogging and following each other around the club. It was like watching scenes from their new video when they danced together."



The duo are believed to have been inseparable even since they arrived in for the BRIT Awards, where they did a show-stopping performance of their song "Work" and showed millions of viewers their dance routine as twerked on Drake.



has had several relationships over the years including a serious romance with rapper Chris Brown, which ended abruptly after he was found guilty of assaulting her in 2009.



She has also been linked most recently to Leonardo DiCaprio, Travis Scott and racing driver champion Lewis Hamilton.

Press Trust of India