http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/Focus-debate-on-sedition-not-political-point-scoring/articleshow/51183580.cms
160
16
A good leader can engage in a debate frankly and thoroughly, knowing that at the end he and the other side must be closer, and thus emerge stronger. You don't have that idea when you are arrogant, superficial, and uninformed," were the sage words of Nelson Mandela, one of the greatest freedom fighters the world has seen.We listened to a bruising debate in Parliament last week. It started with nationalism and sedition but sadly ended up with Durga and Mahishasura.In their rhetorical speeches, the majority of MPs appeared more informed about the activities of Kanhaiya Kumar, Rohith Vemula and about Jawaharlal Nehru University than the main issue — sedition.The debate appeared narrow, casteist and self-effusive rather than broad, nationalistic and large-hearted. Except a few, which could be counted on the fingers, the arguments were the antithesis of an inclusive debate. The debate, as Mandela said, should have made parliamentarians emerge stronger. But they appeared to furrow divisiveness, dwarfing their stature in the public eye. The prime object of the debate appeared to be political point-scoring.The colonial powers had penned sedition as an offence more than a century-and-ahalf ago to use it as a weapon to silence free speech and subjugate rebellious minds. Free speech and a rebellious mind are intrinsic in varying degrees to almost every youngster. How far one can carry forward these two youthful attributes and channelise them for the 'greater common good' depends mainly on the grooming at home and the years spent in educational institutions.When does such attributes turn seditious? This was explained by the Supreme Court in two judgments — Kedar Nath Singh vs State of Bihar [1962 AIR 955] and Balwant Singh and Another vs State of Punjab [1995 (1) SCR 411]. These two judgments were cited by Jyotiraditya Scindia of Congress and Arun Jaitley of BJP during the debate.An impression was spread during the debate that the SC had ruled that merely shouting "Hindustan Murdabad" did not constitute the offence of sedition under Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code. The SC never said this. On the day the then PM Indira Gandhi was assassinated, Balwant Singh, a senior clerk in the education department in Chandigarh, and another person had shouted three slogans — "Khalistan Zindabad; Raj Karega Khalsa; and Hindus should be driven out of Punjab". They were convicted of sedition, and sentenced to a year's imprisonment. The HC upheld their conviction. Acquitting them of sedition charges, the SC had said, "Casual raising of slogans, once or twice by two individuals alone, cannot be said to be aimed at exciting or attempt to excite hatred or disaffection towards the government as established by law in India."Importantly, it said, "It is not the prosecution case that either of the appellants had shouted the slogan 'Hindustan Murdabad'."A converse reading of this would mean that had the two shouted "Hindustan Murdabad", the court would have considered whether that slogan amounted to sedition. Now, the other case. Kedar Nath Singh gave a speech on May 26, 1953, at Barauni in Begusarai, Bihar, "Today the dogs of the CID are loitering around Barauni. Many official dogs are sitting even in this meeting. People of India drove out the British from this country and elected these Congress goondas to the gaddi, and seated them on it." He went on to say that the day was not far when "Congress goondas" and those exploiting the poor would be "reduced to ashes".It was just a year after the first general elections, which was swept by Congress under Jawaharlal Nehru. Sri Krishna Sinha was the Congress chief minister of Bihar at the time. Sedition charge was brought against Kedar Nath Singh. He was sentenced to a year's imprisonment. The HC upheld it. The SC tested the constitutional validity of Section 124A on the touchstone of free speech. It upheld its validity. The five-judge bench ruled, "The section aims at rendering penal only such activities as would be intended, or have tendency, to create disorder or disturbance of public peace by resort to violence."As already pointed out, the explanation appended to the main body of the section makes it clear that criticism of public measures or comment on government action, however strongly worded, would be within reasonable limits and would be consistent with the fundamental right of freedom of speech and expression."It is only when the words, written or spoken, which have the pernicious tendency or intention of creating public disorder or disturbance of law and order that the law steps in to prevent such activities in the interest of public order. So construed, the section, in our opinion, strikes a balance between individual fundamental rights and the interest of public order."Sadly, the heated parliamentary debate did not deliberate on the efficacy of retaining sedition as an offence in the IPC. More sadly, Parliament did not have the time to debate an increasing tendency among affluent communities to seek backward status. But who will debate such issues? There is a looming risk of getting branded "antibackward" or "anti-Dalit".