http://en.farsnews.com/newstext.aspx?nn=13941210001177
160
16
Politics

Official: Slain Terrorists Planned Attack in Tehran

TEHRAN (FNA)- The terrorists who were killed on Sunday after crossing Iran's Western borders were planning to strike the capital city after the Friday elections, a provincial authority said Monday.

"The security and military forces disbanded a terror cell in the Soumar and Naft Shahr region yesterday morning," Director of Kermanshah Governor-General Office for Security and Law Enforcement Affairs Nosratollah Moradi told reporters.

He said the terrorists were armed with bombs, suicide and explosive vests, grenades, pistols and some US dollars.

"They were planning to carry out terrorist attacks in Tehran," Moradi added.

His remarks came after Deputy Interior Minister for Security and Law Enforcement Affairs Hossein Zolfaqari said security forces disbanded a terrorist cell in Western Iran.

"This morning two terrorists crossed the Western borders (in Soumar region). They were killed by border guards and security forces on the spot," Zolfaqari told reporters in Tehran Sunday night.

He said several other terror plots were also foiled before and during the elections on Friday.

Also on Sunday, Commander of the Army's Western Zone Base General Manouchehr Kazzemi said security forces killed the two terrorists and confiscated their weapons, ammunitions and suicide belts.

Earlier on Sunday Intelligence Minister Seyed Mahmoud Alavi had also announced that security forces disbanded two terror cells plotting terrorist attacks ahead of the February 26 vote.

"We identified a Takfiri terrorist on the Southeastern borders on February 8, some 18 days before the vote. He had explosive devices and tools and was planning to strike on Friday," Alavi said at a press conference in Tehran.

According to him, the suspect had a magnetic bomb that could be attached to a car and detonated remotely.

"Also, on the days leading to the elections, intelligence officers were informed of terrorists' intentions to enter the country through the Western borders," Alavi noted.

"We identified a four-member terror cell last Wednesday who had tools for suicide bombings, including 6 suicide vests, electronic detonators, explosive powder, and explosive wicks," he added.

Stressing that the intelligence ministry spares no efforts to increase security in the country, Alavi said, "The intelligence ministry doesn’t allow terrorist streams to use the blind spots and distort national security and calm."