http://www.4-traders.com/WORLD-URANIUM-INDEX-USD-541713/news/Pyongyang-Issues-Fresh-Threat-as-U-S-South-Korea-Drills-Begin-21969682/
163
16
SEOUL?North Korea issued a new nuclear threat against the U.S. and South Korea as the allies began major joint military exercises.

Pyongyang commonly makes threats during joint exercises?in part, experts say, to solidify support among its military for the North Korean leadership.

This year's annual spring exercises in South Korea are some of the biggest ever, involving 17,000 U.S. troops and around 300,000 South Korean troops. Starting Monday and running through April, they are intended to ensure readiness for any North Korean attack through a combination of battlefield and computer-simulated exercises.

The simulations will include offensives against North Korea's top leadership and its nuclear and missile arsenal in the event of a war, South Korea's Yonhap News Agency reported, citing unnamed South Korean military sources.

North Korea responds angrily to any suggestion that dictator Kim Jong Un would be the target of an attack. Its top military body, the National Defense Commission, said in a statement Monday it would take a "pre-emptive and offensive nuclear strike" in response to the exercises.

"We have a military operation plan of our style to liberate south Korea and strike the U.S. mainland ratified by our dignified supreme headquarters," the statement said.

The threat follows a call by Mr. Kim last week for the nation's nuclear weapons to be available for use at any time. In response to Mr. Kim's statement, the U.S. said it is prepared for any hostile action by North Korea.

Tension with Pyongyang increased following its Jan. 6 nuclear-bomb test and Feb. 7 long-range rocket launch. Last week, the United Nations imposed the strongest sanctions on North Korea in over two decades, following penalties announced by the U.S., South Korea and Japan.

The U.S. has around 28,500 troops based in South Korea, part of a treaty commitment with Seoul to defend the country form any North Korean military aggression.

Write to Alastair Gale at alastair.gale@wsj.com