http://www.dailymail.co.uk/indiahome/indianews/article-3816501/AVENGERS-Soldiers-6-Bihar-10-Dogra-battalions-surgical-strike-squads-revenge-slain-fellow-army-men-Uri.html
160
16
When four Jaish-e-Mohammad terrorists attacked the Indian Army’s 12th Brigade in Jammu and Kashmir’s Uri sector on September 18, as many as 19 Indian soldiers lost their lives.

Sixteen of those personnel belonged to 6th battalion of the Bihar regiment while three were from the Dogra regiment’s 10th battalion.

Late on Wednesday, when Indian soldiers conducted surgical strikes on terrorist launch pads in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, the troops included the crack Ghatak platoons of the same two battalions.

Sixteen of those personnel belonged to 6th battalion of the Bihar regiment while three were from the Dogra regiment’s 10th battalion. (Picture for representation only)

India publicly acknowledged the daring synchronized raid, in an indication of the Narendra Modi government’s muscular approach to dealing with terror and other security threats while also signalling a massive departure from previous policies of “strategic restraint”.

The veteran Ghatak platoons joined two para commando units for the attack on enemy territory.

One of the rationales behind these men accompanying the Special Forces was to ensure a sense of retribution is achieved by them.

The operational advantage of sending these well-trained troops from 6 Bihar and 10 Dogra was that they have a deeper sense of the terror across the Line of Control (LoC) and better acclimatisation as they have been deployed in the area for a while now.

Indian army soldiers take up position on the perimeter of an airforce base in Pathankot on January 3, 2016, during an operation to 'sanitise' the base following an attack by gunmen

Morale in a battalion always takes a hit when fellow soldiers are killed and there is a burning desire for vengeance.

Therefore, these units were given an opportunity to strike back, said sources.

Officials said the operation was aimed at stopping terrorists camping near the LoC from slipping into India and launching attacks.

While the key role in the surgical strikes was carried out by the 4 and 9 battalions of the Special Forces, the Ghatak battalions were used in a flanking role.

Morale

True to its name, the Ghatak (which means “deadly” in Hindi) infantry platoon spearheads strikes ahead of a battalion.

Every infantry battalion in the Indian Army has one such platoon and only the most physically fit and motivated soldiers make it to Ghatak.

These soldiers are well-trained, well-armed and equipped to handle situations such as terror strikes, hostage crises and counter insurgency operations.

They often act as shock troops and conduct assaults against enemy positions, often without support from the rest of the battalion.

Their operational role is similar to the Scout Sniper Platoon of the US Marines (USMC) and the British Army’s Patrols Platoon.

They are often asked to carry out tasks such as special reconnaissance, raids on enemy artillery positions, airfields, supply dumps and tactical headquarters.

They are also capable of directing artillery and air attacks on targets deep within enemy lines.

A Ghatak platoon is usually 20- man strong, consisting of a commanding captain, two non-commissioned officers and some special teams like marksman and spotter pairs, light machine gunners, medic and radio operator.

The remaining soldiers act as assault troopers.

Training

Most of them are moulded at the Commando Training Course in Belgaum, Karnataka.

Often, other specialised training like heliborne assault, rock climbing, mountain warfare, demolitions, advanced weapons training, close quarter battle and infantry tactics are also provided.

Members of the platoon are also sent to the High Altitude Warfare School in J&K and the Mizoram-based Counterinsurgency and Jungle Warfare School.

It is mandatory for all infantry officers to pass the Commando Training Course.

These units are equipped with the Tavor TAR-21, INSAS or a version of the AK-47 as their primary assault rifle.

India and Pakistan trade fire at LoC

By Mail Today Bureau

A day after India carried out surgical strikes on the Line of Control, India and Pakistan continued to exchanged fire along the LoC as well as the International Border (IB) in the Jammu region for over 12 hours on Friday in fresh ceasefire violations by Pakistan.

This is the fifth ceasefire violation in the last 48 hours Sources said places in Nowshera’s Salal and Bab Khor areas saw exchange of fire since the morning, forcing local residents to flee from their houses.

A similar ceasefire violation was reported from Akhnoor’s Pallanwala area where firing continued for an hour.

Sources said that the pattern of firing by Pakistani army was anticipated and it was being responded.

Sources said that the pattern of firing by Pakistani army was anticipated and it was being responded.

The officials explained that it showed the frustration in the ranks of Pakistan army after taking a major hit by the Indian army troops, who breached the LoC and destroyed at least five launch pads of terrorists.

Union home minister Rajnath Singh, National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, union home secretary Rajiv Mehrishi and other top officers held a detailed review of preparations.

The home minister on Friday assured that all attempts will be made to secure the release of our soldier who inadvertently crossed over to Pakistan on Thursday.

“All attempts are being made to secure his release,” Rajnath told reporters after attending a meet to discuss internal security situation.

Pakistan postpones SAARC summit

Pakistan has postponed the SAARC Summit that was to be held next month after India along with four other member states of the regional grouping decided against attending the meet.

Pakistan deplores India’s decision to impede the SAARC process by not attending the 19th SAARC Summit at Islamabad on 9-10 November 2016, the Pakistan Foreign Office said in a statement.

It claimed that the spirit of the SAARC charter is violated when a member state casts the shadow of its bilateral problems on the multilateral forum for regional cooperation.

Pakistan deplores India’s decision to impede the SAARC process by not attending the 19th SAARC Summit at Islamabad on 9-10 November 2016 (File picture)

Meanwhile, perturbed by Indian surgical strikes inside Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, Islamabad has begun mobilising its troops and mechanised infantry along the Indian borders, intelligence inputs suggest.

But India is also fully prepared, with matching-response mechanisms already activated to frustrate any Pakistani foolhardiness, top military sources said.

Satellites, radar chains and technical-intelligence facilities are monitoring western borders and airspace 24x7, the sources told India Today.

Officers in the military operations’ centre are constantly reviewing inputs, most senior security sources said.