http://nation.com.pk/national/29-Feb-2016/will-go-to-any-length-to-finish-terrorists-coas
161
16
PESHAWAR - Chief of Army Staff (COAS) General Raheel Sharif said yesterday that Pakistan Army will go to any length to finish terrorists from every nook and corner of the country.“Terrorists will not be given chance to flee and army is determined to eliminate all the militants,” the army chief vowed. General Raheel Sharif arrived in the provincial metropolis Sunday morning and visited the Corps Headquarters where he was briefed by Corps Commander Lt-Gen Hidayatur Rehman about the latest progress of operation in Shawal, North Waziristan.Paying tribute to the sacrifices and resilience of soldiers, who were courageously fighting terrorists in difficult mountainous area of Shawal, the COAS said, “We are determined and will go to any length to finish all pockets of terrorists from any nook and corner of the country.”According to the ISPR, relatives of the martyred army personnel along with Army Chief General Raheel Sharif attended the funeral prayers held at Corps Headquarters and also prayed for the departed souls of Captain Umair Abbasi and three soldiers of Pakistan Army who lost their lives in North Waziristan Agency’s Shawal area the other day.On this occasion, the army chief said that they were committed to root out terrorism from the country. He said terrorists will not be given a chance to flee from Shawal. He also visited Combined Military Hospital (CMH) in Peshawar and inquired after health of the personnel who were injured in the operation. The army chief expressed his complete satisfaction over final push in North Waziristan to evict terrorists from isolated pockets of Shawal, close to Pak-Afghan border. He paid rich tributes to the sacrifices and resilience of soldiers who were courageously fighting terrorists in difficult mountainous area of Shawal.A day back, at least 34 militants were killed while five soldiers including Captain Umair Abbasi, Havaldar Hakim Ali, Sepoy Rashid and Sepoy Hameed were martyred in fierce fighting and air strikes in Shawal. The bodies of the martyred soldiers were first shifted to Miranshah, the headquarters of North Waziristan, in a military helicopter from where they were transported to Peshawar before being taken to their native areas for burial. Talking to media persons, father of Captain Umair Abbasi said he was ready to send his second son to fight against terrorists. Lt-Col (r) Zahid said that he was proud of his son. “By the grace of God, I am a proud father of my son Captain Umair Abbasi Shaheed. Our determination, our morale is high,” he said. He said that his son was very dear to him. He was like a prince and competent in every way. In his profession, in every aspect, he was number one, he said. Expressing full confidence in the leadership of Chief of Army Staff (COAS) General Raheel Sharif, the father of Shaheed captain said that his other younger son was also serving under command of Gen Raheel Sharif. “I told the army chief that you are free to send him to the frontline and that will be a matter of pride for me,” he concluded.Staff Reporter from Islamabad adds: The outgoing Commander of United States Central Command (USCENTCOM), General Lloyd J Austin, paid a farewell call on Chief of Army Staff (COAS) General Raheel Sharif, at General Headquarters on Sunday. During the meeting, General Lloyd Austin paid rich tributes to the professionalism and achievements of Pakistan Army in operation Zarb-e-Azb, an Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR) media report said. The USCENTCOM commander also acknowledged the efforts of Pakistan for regional stability.General Raheel Sharif appreciated General Lloyd Austin’s efforts for peace and stability in Afghanistan. General Austin acknowledged facilitation role in Afghanistan reconciliation process.The American general thanked General Raheel Sharif for the hospitality extended to him during his visits to Pakistan.In line to pay tributes to the Shuhada of Pakistani Security Forces, General Lloyd Austin laid wreath at the Yadgar-e-Shuhada.Earlier, Army Chief General Raheel Sharif visited injured soldiers of ongoing phase of Operation Zerb-e-Azb in Peshawar.The Army Chief also inquired after the well being of Afghan soldier Alam Zeb in Peshawar.The Afghan soldier was evacuated from Bajaur on Thursday last. He was injured in Afghanistan due to terrorists fire and was evacuated to a Pakistani post and later to Peshawar.