http://www.taipeitimes.com/News/biz/archives/2016/05/30/2003647437
160
16
Agencies

ENERGY

IRENA touts renewables

Renewable energy will account for 40 percent of electricity output capacity by 2030, almost double today’s market share, according to the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA). The expansion will be due to lower technology costs, IRENA director-general Adnan Amin said in an interview on Bloomberg TV in Dubai. “We anticipate with the lower technology cost, by 2030 we’re going to have renewables capacity in the global power system at around 40 percent, which is quite remarkable growth,” he said. That compares with 22 percent today, according to IRENA. The real challenge for renewables is capturing crude oil’s market share in heating, cooling and transportation products, Amin said. “As far as the power sector is concerned, oil plays a very little role in power generation worldwide” at about 5 percent, he said. Electricity from solar energy is getting a boost as the price of solar power has declined.

IRAN

Social media deadline set

The government has set a one-year deadline for foreign social media to hand over data on their local users, the Islamic Republic News Agency (IRNA) said yesterday. It said the decision was taken on Saturday at a meeting of a committee on the use of cyberspace headed by President Hassan Rouhani that serves as an IT regulator. “Foreign social media active in the country must transfer to Iran all the data they hold on Iranian citizens” within a year, IRNA said. The measure is set to particularly affect Telegram, an instant messaging app with more than 20 million users in the Islamic republic, a country of 80 million people. IRNA said the committee had also decided to work to develop homegrown social media to compete with foreign networks.

AIRLINES

Lufthansa halts in Venezuela

German airline Deutsche Lufthansa AG on Saturday said it would temporarily suspend flights to Venezuela as of next month due to economic difficulties in the South American nation and problems converting local currency into dollars. International airlines have for years struggled to repatriate billions of dollars in revenue held in the local bolivar currency due to exchange controls, prompting many to limit service and require that passengers pay fares in dollars. The company said demand for international flights to Caracas dropped last year and the first quarter of this year. Lufthansa does not plan to shut its office in Caracas. American Airlines in March said it was scrapping a recently reinstated direct flight between Caracas and New York due to low demand.

PHARMACEUTICALS

India’s Sun probed by US

Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd, India’s largest drugmaker, said its US unit received a grand jury subpoena from the US Department of Justice’s antitrust division related to generic products and pricing. The summons also sought documents about communications with competitors and others regarding the sale of generic drugs, along with corporate and employee records, Sun Pharma said in a stock exchange filing on Friday. There has been public outcry in the US and congressional scrutiny over price increases for prescription drugs, including many older, off-patent medications, that are putting them out of reach for many patients. At a Senate hearing in March, Senator Claire McCaskill, a Democrat, called jacking up drug prices a “sick game” in announcing a bipartisan investigation into pharmaceutical drug pricing.