http://www.dnaindia.com/india/report-nsg-issue-pm-s-diplomatic-skill-on-test-again-with-xi-jinping-2263067
162
16
Prime Minister Narendra Modi's diplomatic skills will be put to test once again, when he meets Chinese President Xi Jinping later this week. Of late, Beijing has been taking increasingly hostile position regarding India's bid to enter the critical Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG) as well as to introduce an international ban on terrorist Masood Azhar.

President Xi will arrive in Goa on Saturday to attend the BRICS summit, before travelling to Cambodia and Bangladesh.

China's indication to discuss "possibilities" with India on its bid to become a full-fledged NSG member has brought some cheer here. Senior officials said there was a real possibility of a discussion on a "common criteria applicable to all non-NPT applicants". But they said the inclusion of some additional elements into the new "criteria", if they cross red-lines or force India to declare all its grid-connected reactors as civilian reactors, may not be acceptable.

Last month, India said it held "substantive" talks with China regarding its attempt to join the NSG, a 48-member group of countries that trades in civilian nuclear technology. Modi is campaigning to join the NSG to back a multi-billion-dollar drive to build nuclear power plants in partnership with Russia, the US and France, and to reduce India's reliance on polluting fossil fuels.

Nuclear expert and senior fellow at the Institute of Defence Studies and Analysis (IDSA), G Balachandran, said while there was no harm in discussing the additional criteria, they should not adversely affect India's national security. But any criteria that strengthened international norms related to nuclear non-proliferation and that were are accepted by all NSG members should not pose any problem.

But what foxed officials here is the statement of China's Vice Foreign Minister Li Baodong, defending his country's move to stall a UN ban on Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) chief Azhar. "There should be no double standards on counter-terrorism. Nor should one pursue own political gains in the name of counter-terrorism," he said, in a veiled reference to India.

India has blamed JeM for January's attack on the air force base in Pathankot and last month's terror strike on an army base in Kashmir's Uri, in which 19 soldiers were killed. China has twice thwarted India's attempt to get Azhar blacklisted by the United Nations Security Council.

Soon after coming to power, Modi had invited President Xi to Ahmedabad. The bonhomie, however, evaporated soon when Beijing led a small group of countries in June to oppose India's bid to become NSG member.

Official spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs, Vikas Swarup, said India will raise the issue of Chinese veto in case of Azhar and would ask it to reconsider the stand. About the NSG, China's Baodong said, "These rules are not to be decided by China alone. We are ready to continue consultation with India to build a consensus. On this issue, China's position is consistent. That is why China has often said that international law must be observed."

India expects that counter-terrorism cooperation will figure prominently in the BRICS Summit. During their last meeting, BRICS foreign ministers had reached an agreement on counter-terrorism.

China has also snubbed Indian media for raising the issue of blocking waters of the Brahmaputra river. Relations between China and India should not be affected by "imaginary water war", an article in the state-run Global Times said, adding that Beijing was unlikely to use the river water as a potential weapon.