http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-06-07/swisscom-s-fastweb-iliad-said-to-bid-for-italian-mobile-assets
163
16
Sky said not to make offer for Wind, 3 Italia frequencies

VimpelCom Ltd. and CK Hutchison Holdings Ltd., seeking to win regulatory approval of a planned merger of their Italian wireless carriers, received preliminary bids for some of their assets from Swisscom AG, Iliad SA and Digicel Group Ltd., according to people familiar with the matter.

The redundant wireless frequencies and about 5,000 towers would allow the winning bidder to create a new mobile-phone carrier in Italy, and potentially ease regulatory concerns about consumer choice and prices. The preliminary bids, negotiated but not binding, were presented to EU Competition Commissioner Margrethe Vestager, said the people, who asked not to be named because the negotiations are private. They declined to give additional details.

Sky Plc, the U.K.-based pay-TV service, has decided not to proceed with negotiations, according to the people.

Exclusive insights in your inbox, from our technology reporters around the world. Get Fully Charged, from Bloomberg Technology. Business Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day. You will now receive the Business newsletter Politics The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from the campaign trail. You will now receive the Politics newsletter Markets The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes. You will now receive the Markets newsletter Pursuits What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams. You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter Game Plan The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead. You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter By lining up buyers, Hutchison’s 3 Italia and VimpelCom’s Wind Telecomunicazioni SpA are trying to avoid a repeat of last month, when the EU blocked a U.K. deal also involving Hutchison. Vestager is said to be preparing formal objections to the 21.8 billion-euro ($24.7 billion) Italian deal, which would create the country’s largest wireless provider by customers. The commission will provide feedback to Hutchison and VimpelCom on the bids in a few days, though it won’t choose a bidder, the people said.

The European Commission declined to comment. It separately said Hutchison and VimpelCom formally submitted concessions on the deal on June 6.

Representatives for VimpelCom, Hutchison, Fastweb, Digicel and Sky declined to comment. A spokesman for French billionaire Xavier Niel’s Iliad had no immediate comment. Digicel, which operates in Jamaica and other Caribbean countries, is controlled by Irish billionaire Denis O’Brien.

Scrutiny from Vestager has forced European telecom operators to reassess their plans to consolidate. Without creating a new carrier, the Wind-3 Italia merger would reduce the number of mobile operators in Italy from four to three, the same number proposed in the blocked U.K. deal.

In March, the EU opened an in-depth probe into the Italy pact, citing concerns about potential price increases and reduced customer choice, similar to the reasons used in blocking the U.K. deal.

Swisscom traded down 0.7 percent at 12:46 p.m. in Zurich on Wednesday, while Iliad fell 1.1 percent in Paris.