http://www.4-traders.com/CORELOGIC-INC-6275906/news/Corelogic-Florida-Foreclosure-Attorney-Addresses-Housing-Market-s-Recent-Upturn-22104621/
163
16
MIAMI (PRWEB) April 01, 2016

As good news for the housing market grabs countless headlines, Miami foreclosure attorney Dillon Graham has found that areas for concern are still prevalent. Foreclosure rates have fallen across the country, but Graham, managing partner of Graham Legal cautions that the work that needs to be done to repair the housing market is far from over.

According to a report released by CoreLogic on March 8, 2016 , January 2016 saw a nationwide drop of 21.7% when comparing homes in some stage of foreclosure to the previous year. However, when considering states with the highest rates of foreclosure, Florida ranked number one. Additionally, the Miami metro area had the second highest foreclosure inventory in the nation. It's because of these facts that Graham warns homeowners to avoid what he calls an "it can't happen to me" attitude.

"The latest trends show undeniable improvement, and that's great, but homeowners and attorneys alike need to be well informed about the problems that persist in the market." Graham said.

In spite of these warnings, the foreclosure attorney also shares optimism. Given CoreLogic's finding that Florida's foreclosure rates have fallen more than 15% of the already notable national average drop, it's clear to see there's room for optimism.

"All the latest news regarding foreclosure is very encouraging, and that's something anyone in my position likes to see," Graham said. "However, as a florida foreclosure attorney who sees people grapple with foreclosure every day, it's important to me that Floridians be aware that its still a major concern."

Regardless of the current trends, foreclosure continues to be a struggle which many Americans face. The 472,659 people whose homes were foreclosed on in the last year is proof that we are not out of the woods yet. If foreclosure seems probable, or even possible, Graham advises homeowners to enlist the help of an attorney.

About Graham Legal, P.A .

Graham Legal, P.A . is a consumer oriented law firm that represents individuals against banks, insurance companies and other wrongdoers. Areas of focus include foreclosure defense and personal injury law. It was founded on the belief that everyone deserves quality legal representation regardless of income, background, or situation. Graham Legal, P.A . seeks to put the power into the hands of people, providing wronged individuals with a fair chance at justice at affordable prices. For more information, visit: http://grahamlegalpa.com.

Read the full story at http://www.prweb.com/releases/2016/04/prweb13303942.htm