http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/chinese-arms-military-beijing-peoples-liberation-army/1/631180.html
160
16
On September 3 last year, the People's Liberation Army (PLA), for the first time, showcased some of its newest hardware in a grand display of muscle-flexing, presided over by President Xi Jinping in Tiananmen Square. The military parade, ironically held to mark the end of World War II and dubbed by China as a 'parade for peace', turned the heads of defence analysts. Seen for the first time was the DF-26 medium-range ballistic missile, a 4,000-km-range weapon dubbed the "Guam killer" for its ability to reach the US naval base on Guam. Also on display was the much-mythologised "aircraft carrier killer" DF-21D, by some accounts the world's first anti-ship ballistic missile, whose very existence was long questioned by foreign sceptics.

But what was most striking about the September parade was that everything on display at Tiananmen, from Z19 attack helicopters and H-6K long-range bombers to missiles and tanks, was made in China-a feat that would have been unthinkable just two decades ago when the country was the world's biggest importer of major arms, a distinction now held by India.

Last year, China emerged as the world's third-largest arms exporter, accounting for 5.9 per cent of all international arms exports from 2011-15-more than the UK, France and Germany-says a February 2016 report by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI), which tracks global arms sales. China still trails far behind the US and Russia, though, who dominate the market.

Manohar Parrikar unveiled a new Defence Procurement Policy that aims at making India self sufficient in arms production (see India's Missing Munitions).

The SIPRI report found a remarkable shift in China's arms trade over the past 10 years. China's arms exports grew by 88 per cent between 2006-10 and 2011-15, emerging as an arms supplier to 37 countries, selling everything from aircraft and missile frigates to anti-ship missiles. Over the same period, Beijing drastically reduced imports, showing its growing confidence in the wares of its domestic military industrial complex. From being the world's largest arms importer, China is now behind India and Saudi Arabia, accounting for 4.7 per cent.

Turning point

How did China go from a country that was two decades ago largely dependent on imports of arms, mainly from Russia, to a major producer and supplier of advanced weapons? The PLA has had a long history of arms manufacturing. As early as the 1960s, with Soviet support, Mao's PLA set up enterprises known in China as bing gongchang, or military industries. These produced everything, from low-grade arms to ammunition, and were scattered across the provinces. The factories employed lakhs of workers and were highly productive, even if low-tech. In the 1980s, China even began exporting some of these arms, mainly to Iran and Iraq. Thousands of Type-56 rifles (mistakenly called the AK-56), Chinese copies of the vintage Soviet AK rifle, flooded India during the insurgencies in Punjab and J&K during the 1980s and 1990s.

A second turning point was the decision by then leader Deng Xiaoping to delink the 'bing gongchang' from the army, disband hundreds of primitive production facilities, and to start state-run large corporations for military production on a commercial basis. This allowed the military industrial sector to open up, Han says, attract better talent from the civilian sector, and develop profitable civilian commercial businesses on the side. This laid the platform in the '90s, and after a decade of heavy state investment in R&D, the sector "began to explode".

Sweeping change

Perhaps the most detailed study on this 'explosion' of China's domestic military industrial complex was published by the Moscow-based Centre for Analysis of Strategies and Technologies (cast) in 2012. It concluded that in the first decade of this century, China had in segments such as aerospace and shipbuilding "leapfrogged two generations of technology", while as recently as "until the turn of the new century, defence technology was nothing short of primitive".

The study attributed this change to the creation of corporations like the China Aviation Industry Corporation (AVIC) and the China State Shipbuilding Corporation (CSSC)-state-run behemoths supported by Beijing but also allowed to develop vast commercial civilian businesses. This was key to their success: defence production capabilities grew in tandem with China's economy. For instance, as the CSSC became one of the world's largest commercial shipbuilding firms, it also developed the expertise-and the vast infrastructure-to produce for the PLA navy missile frigates and transport ships, which China now exports to Pakistan, Bangladesh etc.

Shipyards were initially built with Russian support and designs, but by the start of this century, Chinese capabilities began to take off. Since the year 2000, the CSSC has built more than 22 dry docks over 300 metres long (used for the construction of large vessels) and six which are more than 480 metres long, giving China the biggest dock capacity in the world. (Russia, in contrast, had no 300-metre dry docks, notes CAST.)

If expanding production capabilities was the first step, the second was the ability to innovate and adapt imported Russian and Israeli designs to suit China. Here, China's record has been mixed. Success in shipbuilding hasn't been matched in the skies, with China still reliant on imports of components such as weapons systems, radars and aircraft engines. For instance, limited success in developing China's homegrown fifth-generation fighters, the J20 and J31, forced Beijing to purchase 24 Sukhoi-35s from Russia in a $2 billion deal last year. The agreement underlined Beijing's limitations but also Russia's new willingness to share advanced technology despite a history of mistrust. Beijing's only major aircraft export success has been the JF-17, which is being co-produced with Pakistan.

Expanding footprint

While China still has far to go in closing the technology gap with the US and Russia, it has already made swift inroads in the Asian arms market. Over the past decade, Beijing has exported frigates to Pakistan and Bangladesh, anti-ship missiles to Myanmar and Thailand, and attack helicopters to Venezuela. Of the 555 advanced combat aircraft exported between 2011and 2015, Russia accounted for 209, the US for 175, and China for 74, according to SIPRI data. And, of the 48 orders placed for submarines by the end of last year, China accounted for more than any other country, with 10 submarines due to be delivered-eight to Pakistan and two to Bangladesh.

Trade trends show that China's arms sales over the past decade have buttressed its foreign policy agenda. The flexibility with which Beijing has approached export negotiations underlines that this has not just been about the business. Beijing has appeared to focus on countries that are either in China's immediate neighbourhood, in South and Southeast Asia, or those in Africa and Latin America that have strained relations with China's great rival, the US.

"All-weather ally" Pakistan, unsurprisingly, is the biggest beneficiary, accounting for over one-third of China's arms sales, purchasing aircraft, missiles and frigates. But others like Bangladesh, Myanmar and Thailand have also emerged recently as major buyers of aircraft, ships, tanks, UAVs and submarines. Han Hua of Peking University says sales of arms are "only partly coordinated" with China's foreign policy. "One reason is, when you consider alliance systems, there are many countries that China simply cannot sell to, such as Japan, or even South Korea," she says.

Hence Beijing has courted countries such as Venezuela to expand market share. Like most Chinese experts, Han plays down Beijing's emergence as a major arms exporter, saying the country still lags behind the US and Russia. Yet, she adds, developing the domestic military industrial complex will remain a high priority for Beijing.

Doing so has been an obsession for China's rulers, especially since 1999 when the US bombed the Chinese embassy in Belgrade during the Kosovo war. China's leaders came to the conclusion that every great power must have its own capabilities. Han agrees with that conclusion. "If you look at history," she says, "the winners of wars have been countries that developed the strong capabilities to build up and equip their own armies. Rarely have they been countries dependent on importing technology."

Follow the writer on Twitter @ananthkrishnan