http://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-3518789/Adam-Garcia-cooes-cherubic-baby-daughter-Arya-heads-dance-studio-Singin-Rain-rehearsals.html
160
16
He is an accomplished singer, dancer and actor - Adam Garcia is the living example of a triple threat.

But the 42-year-old showman revealed a fourth string to his bow, his well-honed parenting skills as he doted upon his toddler baby Arya on Friday.

Adam and his seven-month-old tot put on an adorable display as the pair enjoyed some quality time outside Melbourne's famed dance studio, the Ministry Of Dance.

Scroll down for video

How cute! Adam Garcia, 42, and his seven-month-old tot put on an adorable display as the pair enjoyed some quality time outside Melbourne's famed dance studio, the Ministry Of Dance

The Bootmen actor appeared to be dressed for dance rehearsals, clad in a pair of comfortable Mooks-branded track pants, a dark blue T-shirt and a pair of running shoes.

Meanwhile, Adam's brunette mini-me was clad in an adorable purple and white printed jumpsuit emblazoned with a star pattern.

Little Arya appeared to be enjoying being hoisted in the air by her proud father, who couldn't help but smile from ear-to-ear.

Casual: The Bootmen actor appeared to be dressed for dance rehearsals, clad in a pair of comfortable Mooks-branded track pants and a dark blue Tee-shirt

His little superstar! Meanwhile, Adam's brunette mini-me was clad in an adorable purple and white printed jumpsuit emblazoned with a star pattern

Adoring father! Meanwhile, Adam couldn't help but smile from ear-to-ear as he gazed upon his loved one

The Coyote Ugly actor was also visited by his wife Nathalia Chubin, who relieved Adam of his parenting duties by scooping up the little one into her arms as the family enjoyed a stroll in the sun.

Last year, Adam opened up to New Idea magazine about the terrifying moment his daughter's heart stopped beating during her delivery.

'There were genuine moments of dread,' he told the publication.

Playtime! Little Arya appeared to be enjoying being hoisted in the air by her proud father

One happy brood! The Coyote Ugly actor was also visited by his wife Nathalia Chubin, who relieved Adam of his parenting duties by scooping up the little one into her arms as the family enjoyed a stroll in the sun

'Arya's heart rate was falling away, then it was gone': Last year, Adam opened up to New Idea magazine about the terrifying moment his daughter's heart stopped beating during her delivery

'The nurses and midwives didn't want to betray how serious it was but Arya's heart rate was falling away, then it was gone,' he added.

The star revealed that while midwives were preparing his wife for an emergency c-section, Arya's head began to crown.

Describing the first time he held his daughter, Adam said: 'Time stopped. It was quite magical.'

Adam and Nathalia married in March in a low-key ceremony, just five months before their daughter's arrival.

Adam is currently rehearsing for his starring role in the stage production of Singin' In The Rain, which opens in Melbourne next month.

Miracle baby! He revealed that, as midwives were preparing his wife for an emergency c-section, Arya's head began to crown

Moment of awe: Describing the first time he held his daughter, Adam said: 'Time stopped. It was quite magical'

New gig Down Under! Adam ,who is based in the UK, is currently rehearsing for his starring role in the stage production of Singin' In The Rain, which opens in Melbourne next month