http://traveller24.news24.com/News/turkey-travel-sa-keeps-calm-as-australia-israel-and-us-issue-warnings-20160401
161
16
YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE {{item.title}}



Cape Town — The Australian government on Thursday, 31 March, warned its citizens against traveling to the Turkish cities of Ankara and Istanbul because of the terrorist threat.



This after the US State Department and Pentagon ordered the families of US diplomats and military personnel on Tuesday, 29 March, to leave posts in southern Turkey due to "increased threats from terrorist groups" in the country.



The order does not affect about 100 US family members who are based in Istanbul and Ankara, as these areas are not on high alert.



Also, Israel warned its citizens to leave the country as soon as possible and to avoid any travelling there.



South Africa has not issued an official warning to travel to Turkey, but the Department of International Relations and Cooperation has however advised those travelling abroad to register on the of South Africans Abroad platform, which will allow it to assist South Africans in the event of an emergency.

Various tour operators have also confirmed most South Africans are "resilient travellers, who are unlikely to change their travel plans even in the wake of numerous terrorists attacks" and those Traveller24 spoke to have not had any cancellations as such.

Turkey travel: Avoid bombing area in Istanbul



South African President Jacob Zuma, after the Ankara bombings on 13 March this year, issued his condolences to affected families and said, "South Africa shares in the grief of the Turkish people. Terrorism in any form and from cannot be condoned. There is no doubt that the loss of life in Turkey during the past six months is aimed at undermining any efforts to resolve conflict by peaceful means.”



The latest terror attack to hit Turkey exploded on Thursday, 31 March.



Seven police officers died and at least 27 more people were wounded by a car bombing close to a bus terminal in the Baglar district of Diyarbakir, the capital of its namesake province, about 170 kilometers from the Syrian border, according to Turkey's semiofficial Anadolu news agency.



The local prosecutor's office said the bomb was in a parked car, apparently timed to go off as a special operation police vehicle passed.



The US, Australian and Israeli travel warnings were issued before the Thursday's suicide bombing occurred.



In the US, Pentagon press secretary Peter Cook said no specific threat triggered the order, but said it was done "out of an abundance of caution" for the safety of the families in that region. He said he was not aware of a deadline for the families to leave, but said "this will move very quickly."



In a statement, the US military's European Command said the step "allows for the deliberate, safe return of family members from these areas due to continued security concerns in the region."



The US's decision came a day after Israel issued a new travel advisory for Turkey, warning its citizens to leave the country as soon as possible and to avoid any traveling there.



The heightened travel warnings followed the deaths of more than 80 people in four separate suicide bombings in the two cities this year, Foreign Minister Julie Bishop said.



Australians were also advised to "reconsider your need to travel" to the cities — the second-highest danger warning on a four-tier scale.



"Terrorist groups continue to threaten further attacks, including targeting tourists and westerners," Bishop said in a statement.





What to read next on Traveller24:



- Turkey travel: Avoid bombing area in Istanbul



- International travel to Turkey drops after terror attacks



- Swedish airport partially evacuated due to 'suspicious package'