http://www.news.com.au/world/north-america/uk-us-and-eu-announce-world-first-nuclear-swap-of-radioactive-material-deal/news-story/6cb5441161df73e6708b9a27edfb8cee
163
16
THE UK, US and EU will conduct a landmark “swap” of nuclear material that could see waste used to treat cancer, in a move slammed as nuclear “ping pong” by environmental activists.

UK Prime Minister David Cameron will announce the deal at the Nuclear Security Summit in Washington attended by leaders from 56 countries on Thursday and Friday this week.

The plan will see the UK send 700kg of excess highly enriched uranium from the Dounreay nuclear site on Scotland’s north coast to the US, in the largest ever single movement of the substance.

In exchange, the US will send a different type of waste to the European Atomic Energy Community in France where it will be converted into isotopes used to diagnose and treat cancer.

Mr Cameron billed it as a “win-win” which helps reduce waste in the UK and potentially fight disease.

“This is a landmark deal to turn nuclear material we no longer need into a cancer-fighting treatment that could potentially save many lives. It’s a win-win, innovative solution that shows what working together with our international partners can achieve,” he said.

But Friends of the Earth Scotland director Richard Dixon labelled the deal an environmental disaster saying: “Only the nuclear industry could think it was a good idea to risk swapping large quantities of one of the most dangerous materials on the planet across the Atlantic.

“Europe is littered with plenty of highly radioactive waste from both reactors and weapons, there cannot possibly be a need to be importing any more from the US, or for us to be sending ours to them.

“Nuclear waste should be dealt with as close to where it is produced as possible rather than risking transporting it in ships or planes. This waste will remain dangerous for tens of thousands of years. The consequences of an accident during transit would be horrific.”

The announcement comes as Japanese authorities activate an underground ice wall to prevent contaminated water from the earthquake and tsunami five years ago spilling into the Pacific Ocean.

The $400 million system has taken two years to build and is made of underground pipes that will create a barrier around the units damaged in March 2011 events.

No further details about when and how the waste will be transported from the UK have been made available so far.

The World Nuclear Association said 20 million consignments of radioactive materials are transported around the world each year including by road, rail and ship.

They are generally carried on purpose built ships and while accidents have happened, a leak has not yet occurred, it claims.

The Nuclear Security Summit opens Thursday evening with a working dinner for country representatives including Australia’s Foreign Minister Julie Bishop.

Countries will discuss how to work together to ensure non-proliferation of weapons and reduce the threat of terror groups gaining access to nuclear material.

North Korea’s nuclear ambitions will also be a hot topic and President Barack Obama will meet with Chinese leader Xi Jinping on the sidelines.

Leaders from Russia, Iran and North Korea will not attend in what some say is a blow to achieving true international co-operation.

Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Russia would boycott over a ”shortage of mutual co-operation” while planning the summit.