https://www.washingtonpost.com/national/world-digest-oct-24-2016/2016/10/24/84a4aea8-99f3-11e6-b3c9-f662adaa0048_story.html
164
16
SYRIA

No more humanitarian pauses, Russia says

Syrian government forces and their allies on Monday captured strategic high ground in Aleppo as Russia — a key ally of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad — said it was not planning more “humanitarian pauses” in the fighting in the city’s eastern, rebel-held districts.

The fighting in Aleppo came as airstrikes hit the northwestern province of Idlib, killing at least 13 people, according to the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights and the Local Coordination Committees, an activist group.

Fighting resumed in Aleppo over the weekend, after a days-long lull announced by Moscow that was meant to let rebels and civilians leave the eastern areas. The rebels rejected the offer.

On Monday, troops took the hilltop of Bazo on the southern edge of Aleppo and shelled rebel neighborhoods, according to opposition activists.

Troops have besieged rebel-held parts of Aleppo for weeks, subjecting the districts to some of the worst air raids since the conflict began in 2011.

In Moscow, Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said Russia was not planning another humanitarian pause in Aleppo anytime soon.

“In order to resume it, our opponents need to make sure the anti-government groups behave properly,” he said in comments carried by Russian news agencies, blaming the rebels for the last-minute scrapping of medical evacuations from eastern Aleppo planned during the pause.

— Associated Press

INDIA

21 Maoist rebels killed in gunfight with police

Security forces were hunting through forests in southeast India on Monday for Maoist rebels after a fierce gunfight left 21 rebels and a police commando dead and another police officer wounded.

The gunfight broke out after police received a tip that 60 Maoist rebels were gathered in forests on the border of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh states, a police officer said.

The gunfight lasted an hour before the rebels scattered into the dense forests.

The rebels, who have been fighting for more than three decades demanding land and jobs for tenant farmers and the poor, say they are inspired by the Chinese revolutionary leader Mao Zedong.

They operate in 20 of India’s 28 states and are considered the nation’s biggest internal security threat.

— Associated Press

Venezuela’s embattled leader meets pope: Venezuelan President Nicolás Maduro met with Pope Francis on a trip abroad amid growing political tensions in his South American nation, the Vatican confirmed. The Vatican said the pope wanted to continue offering his help in resolving the problems afflicting Venezuela. The suspension of a referendum campaign seeking Maduro’s removal has led to a tense standoff in the country.

S. African opposition criticizes ICC pullout plan: South Africa’s main opposition party tried to block a government plan to withdraw from the International Criminal Court, saying the move is illegal. The government did not consult Parliament before making its decision, the Democratic Alliance said in an affidavit asking the Constitutional Court to hear its case. The government has said a withdrawal bill will soon go to Parliament. Last week, South Africa notified the United Nations that it will withdraw from the treaty that created the ICC.

— From news services