http://www.iol.co.za/the-star/will-jz-face-a-rousseff-moment-2004047
163
16
Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff’s days are surely numbered. Soon to face an impeachment vote in Congress, Rousseff saw the Brazilian Democratic Movement Party, known as the PMDB, walk out of the governing coalition on Tuesday, basically handing her doom on a stone-cold platter.

Though the highest court in the land ruled that President Jacob Zuma violated the constitution, it is not quite the victory the opposition is claiming, says the writer. File picture: Nic Bothma.

Though the highest court in the land ruled that President Jacob Zuma violated the constitution, it is not quite the victory the opposition is claiming, says the writer. File picture: Nic Bothma. Credit: EPA

If anything was going to be a sign that Her Excellency could soon be out of power, this was it. The PMDB’s split from the Brazilian government is a substantial move, because it has been the linchpin as a coalition partner in every administration since that country restored democracy in the mid-1980s.

For Rousseff, a socialist since she was a teenager, it’s a bitter pill. At nearly 70, her life has largely been driven by a Marxist ideology in a fight against dictatorship.

But the mire of harrowing recession, the Petrobras scandal and allegations of money-laundering and corruption within her government have nearly destroyed Rousseff’s revolutionary reputation.

The end is nigh.

As President Jacob Zuma takes in the implications of Thursday’s unanimous ruling on the Nkandla matter at the Constitutional Court, he may be watching events in Brasilia with some interest. And that’s not only because we are partners in Brics and share many of the same challenges.

Zuma is, after all, a leader not unlike Rousseff in his history and political intention. His sister comrade was an enemy of an iniquitous political system, like him. She was a guerrilla fighter like him. She entered her presidency in 2010, a year after Zuma, with a populist backing.

But in her country, unlike ours, impeachment is not uncommon, and Brazilians have not been motivated by the kind of push we see from the ANC to persuade South Africans that we should always vote for the movement because it liberated us.

Rousseff arrived at this low point partly because of mass demonstrations in which ordinary people made it clear their government had not served their mandate. Although the process of Brazilian politics will ultimately dictate her fate, the backdrop of an imminent uprising could not be denied. If Rousseff is impeached, as expected, the wishes of the ordinary person would have been met, as is correct in a democratic system.

However,Thursday’s Concourt ruling on Zuma could be something of a pyrrhic victory unless the ANC's principal players now show the kind of leadership which they must.

Although the court on Thursday found that the president had failed to uphold, defend and respect the constitution as the supreme law of the land by disregarding the public protector’s report into Nkandla, this does not mean he will be impeached even if that might be the desire of a majority of the people.

This did not deter the DA, which hadn’t lost confidence after failing in its attempt in September last year to see a motion for impeachment adopted after the notorious Omar al-Bashir incident. That was another shameful executive decision which the Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) all but shattered when it declared last month that the decision not to arrest the Sudanese president was inconsistent with South African law.

Within 15 minutes of the ruling on Thursday, the DA had again moved to impeach the president in terms of Section 89(1) of the constitution. It had, of course, instituted the proceedings in the first place, enraged by Zuma’s insistence on parallel “exculpatory” reports into Nkandla, and his failure to implement Public Protector Thuli Madonsela’s calls for remedial action.

The party’s action and the powerful Concourt ruling remind us that Madonsela’s powers can only be challenged by judicial review - not by a president with his back against the wall. Equally, we’re reminded that those parallel processes, which exposed some of Zuma’s senior cabinet ministers as nothing more than political lackeys, were already prohibited by the SCA.

As it is, Concourt has now instructed the president to reprimand his own ministers for their astonishing lack of moral fibre and political courage.

If they had any of that, they would - and should - have resigned immediately. Defiance of the constitution and an adverse ruling from the highest court in the land would, in many other democratic countries, such as Brazil, mean probable impeachment. But the only way Zuma can now be removed, unless he is recalled by his party, is if at least two-thirds of the members of the National Assembly support the adoption of such a resolution based on his serious violation of the constitution.

Meanwhile, it's not yet a sure thing that our beleaguered economy will be further affected by Thursday’s ruling to the extent that the National Assembly can no longer tolerate the ill effects of a Zuma presidency. A faltering economy, if not bankruptcy, is after all what finally led to the end of apartheid and National Party rule.

Professor Umakrishnan Kollamparambil of the School of Economic and Business Sciences at Wits explains that foreign direct investment (FDI), for instance, is “not moved by single incidents”, such as the Concourt ruling.

“It’s a pattern. It’s a system, even if an event can sway portfolio investment which can be trigger-happy. FDI is determined rather by the long run of investments. One would be if there was a strong possibility that the verdict set in motion Zuma’s recall by the top ANC management.

“But FDI is really concerned about impacts on governance, and so a single incident like this would not have that unless it was seen as a positive signal of improvement in the overall outlook of the country. If, ultimately, this (ruling) leads to leadership change which can bring about a change in policies, especially business-friendly policies, then we would see a strong reaction.

“Unlike institutional investment, FDI is not really driven by perceptions, but rather by the fundamentals of the economy and growth prospects, and right now, the problem is that our growth rate has slowed in comparison to other emerging economies.”

However, she feels the response of the rating agencies - such as Moody’s, which recently further downgraded the government of South Africa’s debt rating - might be different.

“They may take a cue from (the ruling),” Kollamparambil says, “and they could translate it two possible ways - one would be that they interpret it as showing the superiority of the judiciary and judicial system and Chapter 9 institutions and that is positive. But they could also read it as possibly leading to instability or throwing the country into a leadership crisis.

“The ANC, though, has in its structures the ability to manage this, and so I would put the greater chances on this ruling leading to a better outlook among the agencies, but it will depend on their reading of the ANC’s own dynamics.”

Meanwhile, the prestigious New Yorker magazine is comparing Dilma Rousseff to Richard Nixon, one of the most contemptible leaders in US history. Will Zuma yet join them in the dark corridor of no return?

Janet Smith is executive editor of The Star.

The Star

IOL News on Facebook

IOL on Twitter