http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3821267/French-officials-fail-invite-Libyan-government-crisis-talks.html
160
16
But no one from the Libyan government was

A meeting on the crisis in Libya made little progress in brokering a peace deal after French officials failed to invite anyone from the Libyan government for the talks.

Representatives from Egypt, Germany, Italy, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Turkey, UAE, UK and the U.S. all attended the high-level meeting in Paris on Monday.

UN Special Envoy Martin Kobler and EU foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini were also present at the talks - which were hosted by the French government.

But the Libya Herald reported that no one from the war-torn country was invited to the meeting - despite it being held to discuss the future of the African nation.

A crisis meeting on Libya made little progress in brokering a peace deal after French officials failed to invite anyone from the Libyan government for the talks in Paris

French officials claimed they did have time to ask anyone from the Libyan government because the event was organised so quickly.

They added that they also wanted to attract outside support to the meeting.

It came days after Faiez Mustafa Serraj - the head of Libya's Presidential Council - visited Paris.

'I took this initiative on behalf of France because we want the government of national accord of Mr Serraj to succeed,' said French foreign minister Jean-Marc Ayrault.

Libya has been divided between two rival governments since 2014 and the nation has seen Islamic State establish a foothold

The Arab League also reportedly protested that no representatives had been invited.

Last week, French government spokesman Stephane Le Foll said the aim of the meeting was to 'see how we can advance the cause of achieving the necessary unity in Libya'.

But the meeting was deemed to be a 'damp squib' by some attendees who said there were 'few high-level figures'.

Libya has been divided between two rival governments since 2014.

The nation has been ravaged by unrest since the fall and death in 2011 of dictator Muammar Gaddafi (shown)

The internationally-recognised and UN-supported Government of National Accord (GNA) is based in Tripoli while the rival House of Representatives government (HOR) is based in the east in Tobruk.

Last week, the EU agreed to extend the sanctions against the head of Libya's internationally recognised parliament as well as two former officials.

The sanctions, which have been in place since April, were imposed for blocking peace efforts by failing to get behind the UN-backed unity government.

They were rolled over on Friday to April 2017.

The European Council said it 'remains concerned by the situation in Libya and in particular the acts that threaten peace, security and stability of the country.'

Libya is facing 'political impasse' and 'hazardous military developments', the UN envoy to the North African country Martin Kobler has warned.

The nation has been ravaged by unrest since the fall and death in 2011 of dictator Muammar Gaddafi.

It has also seen Islamic State establish a foothold.