http://www.politico.com/tipsheets/morning-trade/2016/09/tpps-true-believer-full-speed-ahead-for-the-ega-obama-makes-one-last-export-controls-push-216169
1621
16
TPP’s true believer

With help from Doug Palmer and Megan Cassella

TPP’S TRUE BELIEVER: That would be President Barack Obama, who said that when he meets with Asia-Pacific leaders in Laos on Tuesday for the East Asia Summit he will tell them “that the United States has never had a smooth, uncontroversial path to ratifying trade deals, but they eventually get done.” Obama, speaking to reporters Monday at the close of the G-20 conference in Hangzhou, China, added that his message to leaders will be to reemphasize that his intention is to get the Trans-Pacific Partnership done — after the U.S. election noise ends.

Story Continued Below

“It is indisputable that it would create a better deal for us than the status quo,” he said of the trade pact. “Nobody has been able to describe to me — with all the general criticism of trade that you hear coming out of some quarters — nobody is able to describe to me how this would not be a significant improvement for U.S. workers and U.S. businesses going forward compared to the status quo.”

“And so I intend to be making that argument,” he added. “I will have to be less persuasive here because most people already understand that. Back home, we'll have to cut through the noise once election season is over. It’s always a little noisy there.”

IT’S TUESDAY, SEPT. 6! Welcome to Morning Trade, where we’re ready to get back to it after a week off. Let us know whether you share the president’s same optimism on TPP: mcassella@politico.com or @mmcassella, dpalmer@politico.com or @tradereporter and abehsudi@politico.com or @ABehsudi.

OBAMA, XI MAKE A BIT OF A COMMITMENT: President Obama and Chinese President Xi Jinping pledged to intensify their work to conclude negotiations for a bilateral investment treaty, according to a fact sheet released after the two leaders met over the weekend on the sidelines of the G-20 meeting in Hangzhou. The fact sheet doesn’t set a precise timeline for wrapping up the eight years of talks but noted that the two sides recently exchanged their "third revised and significantly improved negative lists” offers of which sectors they want to keep closed to foreign investment under the pact, and have “made further progress in all aspects of the negotiation.”

The fact sheet also touches on U.S. industry concerns over Chinese information and communications technology security measures that have been a source of friction over the past year. The two sides committed that security-related ICT rules should not be discriminatory or overly restrictive for foreign suppliers. Doug Palmer has the story here.

G20 LEADERS CREATE STEEL ‘FORUM’: The U.S., China and other world powers closed their annual G20 confab on Monday with an agreement to create a new “Global Forum” to examine (and report back within a year on) the problem of global excess capacity in steel, according to another fact sheet from the White House on Monday.

The move comes as the Obama administration is under pressure to show it is being tough on China and enforcing existing trade agreements as it pushes Congress to approve the TPP. U.S. producers have complained for more than a year about the huge glut of Chinese-made steel weighing down the market and depressing prices, even though the United States has 160 anti-dumping and countervailing duty orders in place on steel and steel-related products.

In other trade-related G20 outcomes, leaders urged all members to ratify the World Trade Organization’s Trade Facilitation Agreement by December and “reaffirmed their 2015 commitment that G20 members should not conduct or support cyber-enabled theft of intellectual property,” the fact sheet says.

In the area of internet governance, the leaders affirmed the importance of preserving the global nature of the internet as an engine for growth, and committed to the free flow of information, ideas, the ability to spread knowledge across borders, and freedom of expression. They supported the multi-stakeholder approach to internet governance.

FULL SPEED AHEAD FOR THE EGA: The Environmental Goods Agreement checked one of the last remaining items off its to-do list when negotiators agreed on a landing zone this weekend. The landing zone, which had been a significant focus of the July round of negotiations, consists of three parts: a commitment to have staging framework ready by the end of the year; agreement on language for dealing with future work and critical mass; and the product list — which, though still not final, has been narrowed down to 304 products.

Negotiators feel that talks are still on track but must be accelerated, and they’ve agreed to hold one round each month from September to November before a concluding ministerial in December, one Geneva source said.

Significant challenges still remain, however; and chief among them is China’s snapback proposal to waive Most Favored Nation tariffs for WTO members who are invited to join the pact but refuse to do so, the source said. No progress has been made on the proposal, which China first put on the table earlier this summer in a bid to prevent non-EGA members from free-riding.

Another topic still unresolved is the level of tariffs remaining on products covered under the agreement. China had expressed interest in keeping tariffs on some products at around 5 percent rather than eliminate them completely, but the speculation now is that China may relent in exchange for a longer staging period for tariff cuts.

WAKE ME UP WHEN SEPTEMBER ENDS: The TPP deal may not be going anywhere fast, but the month ahead could be busy in terms of either salvaging or discarding trade talks with the European Union. The fate of the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership negotiations could be touched on when European leaders informally meet on Sept. 16, in Bratislava, Slovakia, to continue discussions on the implications of the U.K. leaving the EU.

TTIP will come up more directly when EU trade ministers meet on Sept. 23. France’s top trade official, Matthias Fekl, said he will propose at that meeting a motion to halt the talks. At the end of last month, Fekl, French President Francois Hollande and German Economy Minister Sigmar Gabriel declared that the languishing trade talks had failed. The fate of the negotiations will also be a point of discussion when U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman and European Trade Commissioner Cecilia Malmstrom meet to take stock of chances of concluding a deal this year.

Closer to home, President Obama’s Export Council is set to meet, Sept. 14, to discuss the priority topics of TPP and appointments to the Export-Import Bank board of directors. Obama and other world leaders will gather in New York from Sept. 13-26 for the United Nations General Assembly meeting, giving the president a high-profile platform to make the case for economic openness and engagement. The Commerce Department and Bloomberg Philanthropies will co-host the second U.S.-Africa Business Forum on the sidelines of the U.N. meeting, with Obama scheduled to attend along with Commerce Secretary Penny Pritzker, Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg, African heads of state, and U.S. and African CEOs.

And, yes, there are still trade negotiations happening. The 20th round of negotiations for the Trade in Services Agreement will take place the week of Sept. 19, in Geneva. The Swiss city will also host another major trade event this month, when the World Trade Organization holds its annual public forum, Sept. 27-29.

Also, don’t forget the first debate between presidential candidates Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump will be Sept. 26 at Hofstra University, where the two will likely battle to prove who hates TPP more.

HOPE SPRINGS ETERNAL ON TPP: Obama’s Asia-Pacific trade deal has been shunned by Republican leadership, opposed by both presidential candidates and mired in negative publicity, but if Obama can strike a deal with influential committee chairmen on life-saving medicines, he might be able to get his signature achievement passed this fall.

Finding some way to satisfy Senate Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch on intellectual property protections for “biologic” drugs — cutting-edge medicines used to treat cancer and other killer diseases — remains the key to persuading Republicans to take up the Asian-Pacific trade deal, even if Trump and Clinton continue to bash the pact.

House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady, whom Obama also needs to win over, dismissed the idea that the political environment has been so poisoned by the harsh rhetoric of the presidential campaign that it would be impossible to pass TPP, even if the biologics issue and a handful of other concerns of lawmakers are resolved.

Brady believes there has been good progress on several outstanding issues, including one — labor rights in Mexico — mentioned more often by Democrats. Additionally, “my sense is good discussions are occurring in the area of biologics, but no resolution yet,” he said, adding that getting TPP members to “clarify” their commitment would be one way to give lawmakers confidence. Palmer has the story here. http://politico.pro/2cgfrT1

OBAMA MAKES ONE LAST EXPORT CONTROLS PUSH: The administration is preparing to publish the final version of what could be its last major rule in a landmark overhaul of export control regulations. A revision of controls on night vision, thermal imaging and other similar technology is now being reviewed by Congress, before it’s expected to be published in the Federal Register in mid-September, Brian Nilsson, deputy assistant secretary of State for defense trade controls, told Pro Trade.

The rule is part of a massive effort aimed at moving goods and technology from the strict controls of the State Department’s U.S. Munitions List to the Commerce Department’s Commerce Control List. USML Category 12, which covers night vision, was put out for comments twice. The administration wrestled with how to ease restrictions on that category of items, since night vision and other optical sensors are considered vitally important to the U.S. military’s strategic advantage but have been widely developed and used in parallel commercial purposes. The category is one of 15 overhauled during the reform process.

“That’s why we intentionally left it as one of the last categories, because we had the most contention forever on how night vision, thermal imaging systems were controlled,” Nilsson said. “Should they be on my list or his list? So, by waiting later in the process to resolve that and address that, we had the benefit of having gone through this process with a little less drama.”

Nilsson said the administration is also working on issuing a “notice of inquiry” to collect additional information on whether further tweaks are needed to the category. Other categories covering aircraft and aircraft engines that were revised previously will also be reissued by the end of the year after a similar “review and refresh” process.

STEEL DETERMINATION: Commerce today will announce its preliminary determinations in yet another steel case, investigating the alleged subsidization of imports of certain carbon and alloy steel cut-to-length plate from China and South Korea. The petitioners in the case are ArcelorMittal USA, Nucor Corp. and SSAB Enterprises. The steel plates are used in building and bridge construction, transmission towers and light poles, and agricultural, construction and mining equipment, among other things. In 2015, the value of imports of the steel products from China and South Korea totaled $70.3 million and $210 million, respectively, according to Commerce.

In other steel trade remedy news, the U.S. International Trade Commission on Friday made a final injury determination on imports of cold-rolled steel flat products from Brazil, India, Russia, South Korea and the United Kingdom. The ITC ruled to issue anti-dumping duties on imports of the steel products from Brazil, India, Korea and the U.K. and countervailing duties on imports of products from the first three of those countries. It ruled against issuing duties on the product from Russia after deciding that imports were negligible.

Imports of the product from all five countries, including Russia, were estimated at $467.8 million in 2015, the ITC said. Petitioners in the steel case included AK Steel Corp., ArcelorMittal USA, Nucor Corp., Steel Dynamics and the United States Steel Corp.

ICYMI: U.S. RAMPED UP EXPORTS IN JULY: The U.S. goods and services deficit narrowed to $39.5 billion in July as imports fell and exports rose, the Commerce Department reported on Friday. The monthly rise in exports of goods and services, to $186.3 billion from $182.9 billion the month before, marked the largest jump in exports since early 2014.

The administration is using the numbers to bolster its arguments in favor of the TPP. “Today’s data show that U.S. firms continue to sell ‘Made in America’ goods to worldwide consumers despite challenges in the global economy,” Commerce Secretary Penny Pritzker said in a statement.

“We continue to see record exports in several goods and services sectors while improving our goods trade balance with critical trading partners,” she said. “The Obama administration is committed to a trade agenda that promotes high-standard trade agreements like the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which will grow our exports, strengthen our economy, and support job creation here at home.”

INTERNATIONAL OVERNIGHT

-- New Zealand Prime Minister John Key said he will try to get a sense from Obama of where TPP stands in the U.S., New Zealand Newswire reports.

-- The death of TPP won’t be in the long-term interests of the U.S. labor movement, the Los Angeles Time editorial board writes.

-- Indian Commerce Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and the chief of India IT giant Wipro, Azim Premji, discuss the visa fee hike in the U.S., the Press Trust of India reports.

-- European Commissioner for Economic and Financial Affairs Pierre Moscovici said calls to end TTIP talks from home country officials in France were not appropriate, Euractiv reports.

THAT'S ALL FOR MORNING TRADE! See you again soon! In the meantime, drop the team a line: abehsudi@politico.com and @ABehsudi; mcassella@politico.com and @mmcassella; dpalmer@politico.com and @tradereporter; mkorade@politico.com and @mjkorade; and jhuffman@politico.com and @JsonHuffman. You can also follow @POLITICOPro and @Morning_Trade.

