http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3794778/Lisa-Harnum-s-killer-Simon-Gittany-gets-job-prison-cleaner.html
164
16
Balcony murderer Simon Gittany was once a cashed-up corporate high flyer living in a $1,000-a-week luxury Sydney apartment.

Now he earns just $17.76 a week sweeping and mopping floors, emptying bins and cleaning toilets in Lithgow jail where he is serving his 18-year sentence.

The 43-year-old was jailed in November 2013 for throwing his ballerina fiancée Lisa Harnum, 30, over the 15th-floor balcony of their two-bedroom flat in July 2011.

Convicted murderer Simon Gittany now earns $18 a week cleaning his prison

His new digs are not quite as flash, sleeping in a four by three metre cell in the prison's protective wing where he is kept because of high profile.

'Sweepers undertake the cleaning of the shower blocks, toilets and common areas of a correctional centre, including sweeping, mopping and vacuuming,' a Corrective Services spokeswoman told the Sunday Telegraph.

Gittany's violent past has come out once since he was put away when he got in a fight and was confined to his cell for several days.

He was jailed in November 2013 for 18 years prison for throwing his fiancée Lisa Harnum (pictured) off a 15th-floor balcony in Sydney in July 2011

Lithgow jail where Gittany is serving his 18-year sentence and sleeping in a four by three metre cell in the prison's protective wing

But prison sources told the newspaper 'overall his behaviour has been pretty good' and he has also been ­participating in rehabilitation programs.

Rachelle Louise, who was his girlfriend at the time of his trial, was seen ­visiting Gittany earlier this year, but it is understood they broke up before his appeal last month.

After that appeal against his minimum sentence was denied, Gittany will be 57 when he is eligible for parole in December 2031.

He killed Ms Harnum in a jealous rage when he discovered she had packed her bags to leave him after his controlling behaviour left her with just two friends.

Gittany used CCTV cameras to monitor her movements in their apartment and the scrutiny she was subjected to was ‘intrusive and overbearing', the judge said at his sentencing.

CCTV footage showing Gittany holding a hand over Ms Harnum's mouth moments before he pushed her off the balcony

He killed Ms Harnum in a jealous rage when he discovered she had packed her bags to leave him after his controlling behaviour left her with just two friends

Judge McCallum said the relationship reached the point when Miss Harnum changed her Facebook status to ‘single’ and had signed a contract to store her belongings in Bondi as she prepared to leave him.

After his conviction it was revealed Gittany had been under investigation by the NSW drugs squad over suspicious payments ­between him and two men who have pleaded guilty to producing ice.

Earlier in life he was jailed for biting off part of a policeman’s ear, punching a man while others were already holding him down, and receiving stolen property and selling drugs.

His vast wealth was never explained.