http://www.independent.com.mt/articles/2016-08-21/local-news/Political-parties-focus-should-be-to-bring-back-public-trust-Simon-Busuttil-6736162686
30
3
Mathias Mallia

Opposition Leader Simon Busuttil today said that the work of both political parties needs to be directed at bringing back the disenfranchised public’s trust. “We need to show that politics is not only for the lucky few, but the benefits can trickle down to every single person,” Dr Busuttil said, likening the government and its officials to people jumping onto a table of food and not leaving a single crumb for anyone else.

Dr Busuttil gave a list of reasons why people have lost faith in the current government focusing specifically on a story published today by The Malta Independent on Sunday regarding the Neville Gafa scandal regarding the selling of medical visas to Libyans.

The Opposition Leader said that when visas are being given like this, then they are not being given correctly and this having been approved by the powers that be inside the OPM is clear proof that PL politics are only focused on the few who are lucky enough to be at the heart of the party.

Dr Busuttil then went on to explain how he flagged up the issue last year at the National Security Committee in Parliament and Dr Muscat assured him that there was nothing illegal going on. “These are the things you see in mafia films,” Dr Busuttil said.

Without mentioning the No-Portfolio Minister, Konrad Mizzi or the OPM Chief of Staff Keith Schembri directly, Dr Busuttil did say that “those who have secret Panama companies will never be able to work for the people.” Dr Mizzi and Mr Schembri were found to have opened secret companies in Panama earlier this year.

He also went on to speak about the environmental issues which have been dominating headlines for well over a year now including the AUM in Zonqor up until the recent Mriehel and Sliema high-rise projects which have been facing constant opposition from all affected parties, except the government, according to Dr Busuttil.

“With me as Prime Minister, this type of dirt will be unacceptable.” Dr Busuttil said he was happy to see students expressing themselves about the issue, and insisted that civil society needs to try even harder.

In a bid to fool the people into thinking they will be gaining something, Dr Busuttil spoke about the upcoming budget being a bit of a sham with Dr Muscat saying he will hand out the public benefits which should have been distributed two years ago considering the new power station and oil prices being so low. These benefits include lower electricity and water bills, as well as lower petrol and diesel prices. “First he steals from us for two years, and now he is giving back?”

“The PN is in nobody’s pocket and if I have one thing, it is integrity and I will never let the PN be in anyone’s pocket,” the Opposition Leader concluded.