http://www.india.com/news/india/pakistan-fears-global-isolation-plans-to-attend-heart-of-asia-istanbul-meet-in-amritsar-1615243/
160
16
New Delhi, Oct 25: Pakistan, after being internationally isolated is trying hard to make its presence felt on the global map. After the recent Uri terror attack that claimed lives of 19 jawans, India made its stand clear at the United Nations and said that it would isolate Pakistan on all global platforms. India stated that Pakistan is a ‘terror state’ that practices terrorism on its own people. However to gain support from other neighbouring nations, Pakistan is planning to attend a Heart of Asia conference on Afghanistan, which is scheduled for December this year in Amritsar, India.

This will be the 7th Ministerial Conference since its start in the year 2011. The Express Tribune newspaper reported that Pakistan’s participation in this conference is aimed at sending a “clear message to the world that unlike India, Pakistan is in favour of reaching out to its neighbours for bringing peace and stability in Afghanistan.

India had pulled out itself from the 19th session of the SAARC summit which was scheduled to happen in Islamabad. Along with India, neighbouring nations Bangladesh, Bhutan and Afghanistan and Sri Lanka supported India in boycotting Pakistan for its terror activities. Saarc member states include Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Nepal, the Maldives, Pakistan and Sri Lanka. This however forced Pakistan to postponed the SAARC Summit to next month.

Pakistan claimed that the spirit of the Saarc Charter is “violated” when a member state casts the shadow of its bilateral problems on the multilateral forum for regional cooperation. “Pakistan deplores India’s decision to impede the Saarc process by not attending the 19th Saarc Summit at Islamabad on 9-10 November 2016,” the Pakistan Foreign Office said in a statement.

External Affairs minister Sushma Swaraj took a dig at Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sarif rants on Kashmir and emphasized on the point that Kashmir is India’s integral part and will continue to be so and thus, Pakistan should stop dreaming about it. This is Pakistan’s move since it cannot tolerate its isolation and is trying hard to be in good books of the other neighbouring nations.

The Express Tribune added that it isn’t clear whether Pakistan will send Sartaj Aziz, or whether it will “downgrade” its participation at the conference. “There is a growing sense among the stakeholders that Pakistan should attend theHeart of Asia-Istanbul conference…As we have stated repeatedly that Pakistan will support every endeavour that contributes towards peace and stability in Afghanistan,” one official is quoted as saying. As per reports, Foreign ministers from 14-member countries are expected to attend the day-long conference, the newspaper said.

The Heart of Asia-Istanbul Process was launched in November 2011 to expand practical coordination between Afghanistan and its neighbors and regional partners in facing common threats, including counterterrorism, counternarcotics, poverty, and extremism. The United States and over 20 other nations and organizations serve as “supporting nations” to the process. The 6th Heart of Asia – Istanbul Ministerial Process was also held in New Delhi India on 26 April, 2016.