http://tribune.com.pk/story/1193930/incumbent-upon-world-give-kashmiris-right-self-determination-pm/
163
16
Burhan Wani's blood reinvi­gorate­d Kashmi­ri resist­ance moveme­nt, says Nawaz Sharif­

Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif has asked the United Nations and the international community to give Kashmiris their right to self-determination to free them from Indian tyranny in the valley.

“The death of Burhan Wani, son of the Kashmiri soil, had reminded India to give Kashmiris their right to self-determination,” the premier said while addressing the joint session of parliament on Wednesday.

The house was convened to discuss the situation in held Kashmir, aggression along the Line of Control (LoC) and the foreign policy in the wake of the Modi government’s bid to ‘isolate Pakistan.

All political parties attended the joint session except the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) that announced on Tuesday for boycotting it on grounds that “it would mean endorsing the prime minister”.

‘Kashmiris deprived of free will’

PM Nawaz said Kashmiris have been deprived of their free will for the last 70 years and the world has been unable to deliver to them their rights.

“India has failed Pakistan’s persistent efforts to progress with the peace talks and the latter’s efforts in this regard were impeded every time,” he said. “Unfortunately, Pakistan’s efforts to restore dialogue with India were discouraged,” the premier remarked, saying this was the reason that South Asia’s peace is at risk today.

Pakistan will win any war against India

India went on to deflect the world from its acts of suppression in Kashmir by levelling allegations against Pakistan of interference, the premier said.

Excerpts from Prime Minister's speech.#JointSession pic.twitter.com/AbY8LtZnzg — PML(N) (@pmln_org) October 5, 2016

Highlighting his recent address to the United Nations, the prime minister said he had asked the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) to conduct an independent investigation of the situation in the valley, provide Kashmiris political freedom to help them decide about their future, provide immediate medical aid to the victims of Indian brutalities, take measures to ensure evacuation of forces and carry out plebiscite in Kashmir.

‘We’re united for Kashmir cause’

“We all are together and one entity on the Kashmir issue. If we wish that Kashmir should be freed, we should fight for it together,” Leader of Opposition in the National Assembly Khursheed Shah said while addressing the joint session.

Lamenting that how India has tried to isolate Pakistan, he termed the recent efforts made by the government as the country’s failure in diplomacy.

“Of late, India didn’t only execute skirmishes along the LoC but also tried isolating us internationally,” Shah said, adding that although PM Nawaz’s speech in the UN was on point and ‘written’ well but he should also have included Indian spy Kulbushan Yadav’s recent arrest in the country.

“Earlier [in 90s], India tried to isolate Pakistan by not attending the SAARC conference; however, Shaheed Benazir Bhutto solved the matter by her diplomatic skills,” he added.

Read full story