http://www.politico.eu/article/vladimir-putin-cancels-france-trip-amid-new-russia-west-tensions-europe-francois-hollande/
161
16
Russian President Vladimir Putin at the World Energy Congress in Istanbul | Alexei Druzhinin/AFP via Getty Image Vladimir Putin cancels France trip amid new Russia-West tensions French President François Hollande had already expressed doubts on whether the visit was ‘useful.’

PARIS — Russian President Vladimir Putin called off a trip to Paris next week after declining an offer to meet François Hollande solely for talks on Syria, Reuters quoted a source in the French presidency as saying on Tuesday.

“There were contacts between the Kremlin and the Elysée this morning to offer to Putin a working visit on Syria, but excluding all other events that President Hollande could have taken part in,” the source told Reuters. “In response to this proposal, Russia has just indicated that it wants to postpone the visit planned on October 19.”

The trip’s abrupt cancelation underscores how rapidly the relationship between Russia and many Western powers has deteriorated because of the situation in Syria, where Russian bombers are assisting Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s attacks on rebel positions.

Six months ago, French Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault invited Putin to Paris during a trip to Moscow. The visit, during which Putin was to inaugurate a new Russian Orthodox cathedral and visit a Russian art exhibition, was designed to showcase warmer Franco-Russian ties at a time when many French politicians were pressing the European Union to lift Ukraine-linked sanctions on Moscow.

But the trip quickly became mired in controversy. French officials declined for months to confirm a date. And it was only in early October that Putin’s arrival date was confirmed — by sources close to the Russian foreign ministry and not by the hosting nation, as is normally the practice for state visits.

In the interim, intense aerial bombardment of Aleppo in Syria by Russian and Syrian fighter jets inflamed relations between Moscow and the West. France condemned the bombing raids, and Ayrault went so far as to say he would ask the International Criminal Court to investigate possible war crimes linked to the Aleppo bombing.

At the United Nations Security Council, Moscow vetoed a French proposal calling for a ceasefire in Syria.

On Sunday, Hollande touched on the issue for the first time in public, telling Tf1 television that he had doubts about Putin’s visit to Paris.

“I asked myself the question is this useful? Is this necessary? Could this turn into a way of exerting pressure,” Hollande told Tf1. “I am still asking myself the question … If I receive [him], I will tell him that this is unacceptable, that it’s bad for Russia’s image, for what it represents.”

The Kremlin has yet to comment publicly on the reasons for Putin’s decision not to travel to Paris.