http://dev.thedailystar.net/frontpage/tampaco-fire-remains-3-victims-recovered-1290403
160
16
Firefighters yesterday pulled the remains of three more bodies from the rubble of Tampaco factory building in BSCIC industrial area of Tongi, raising the death toll from the deadly explosion and fire incidents at the plant to 39.

The remains of the bodies were recovered between 11:30am and 1:15pm while removing debris from the partly-collapsed building, said Akhtaruzzaman Liton, deputy assistant director of Gazipur Fire Service and Civil Defence.

Part of the Tampaco Foils Ltd building collapsed following an explosion there on September 10. The blast set fire to the factory, also injuring around 40 people.

A Titas Gas probe found that the factory was consuming gas at least twice over its permitted limit at the time of explosion.

Meanwhile, the High Court yesterday directed the authorities concerned to freeze the bank accounts of the factory owners.

The court, however, ruled that the owners can withdraw money from the bank accounts only for payment of salaries, relevant benefits, compensation for workers and repair of factory.

In response to a writ petition, the HC directed the relevant authorities to submit reports to it in a month on how much money was given to workers as salaries, benefits and compensations and to repair the damaged factory.

The HC bench of Justice M Enayetur Rahim and Justice Ashish Ranjan Das also issued a rule upon the authorities concerned to explain why they should not be directed to give sufficient compensation to the victims.

The court passed the order and issued the rule following the writ petition filed by rights organisations Ain o Salish Kendra, Bangladesh Environmental Lawyers Association and Bangladesh Legal Aid and Services Trust.

The organisations on September 19 submitted the petition as public interest litigation to the HC, seeking its directive on the authorities concerned to give sufficient compensation to the victims.

The petitioners prayed to the court to direct the relevant authorities to provide proper treatment to the injured, identify those responsible for the tragedy and take appropriate legal action against them.

They requested the HC to ask the government to submit probe reports to the court and take effective steps to stop the recurrence of such incidents.

The organisations also urged the court to direct the government to freeze the bank accounts of the factory and its owners so that money could be used for compensation of victims.

According to the writ petition, the explosion took place due to violation of relevant laws. Under the labour law, building construction act and boiler law, the factory owners must ensure workers' safety, congenial working environment and a fire extinguishing system.

The disaster would not have happened if the laws were followed properly, said the petitioners.

Advocate Sharif Bhuiyan, barrister Sara Hossain and barrister Tanim Hussain Shawon appeared for the petitioners, while advocate Abdul Baset Majumder argued for the factory owners.

Two cases have been filed so far with Tongi Model Police Station in this regard, one by the father of deceased worker Jewel and the other by police. However, law enforcers are yet to make an arrest in the cases.

Army and fire service men have been carrying out a rescue operation at the factory site as 11 people remain missing following the accident.

Our correspondent in Gazipur contributed to this report.