http://www.4-traders.com/news/FSA-Already-applied-sanction-was-specified-for-Krediidipank--22995676/
163
16
Yesterday, 1 September, the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) of the US Department of Treasury announced that AS Eesti Krediidipank (Krediidipank) was added to their sanctions list programme UKRAINE-EO13662, subject to its Directive 1. These sanctions are related to the crisis in Ukraine and against the actions by Russia in the Crimea. We understand that Krediidipank was added to the list to specify that the sanction that had already been applied to the subsidiaries of a Russian credit institution took effect. More than 50% of the holding in Krediidipank belongs to a Russian credit institution.

In general, according to this sanction, it is forbidden for the United States persons to finance or credit Krediidipank with a maturity longer than 30 days as well as trade with shares that were issued by Krediidipank after the sanctions took effect.

According to the explanation by OFAC, the United States financial institutions may continue their correspondent actions with the persons under the sanction, but under the condition that they do not finance these persons or carry out other actions that are forbidden.

The European Union has currently not applied similar sanctions to Krediidipank.

This specification of the sanction does not directly affect those clients of Krediidipank who are not United States persons. However, this sanction that took effect can indirectly influence the bank's relations with other international banks as well as slow or limit cross-border payments, especially those made in US dollars.

Krediidipank is strongly capitalised. The capital adequacy level of the bank is significantly higher than the regulatory requirements and it meets the liquidity normative applied to the banks with a noticeable surplus. As of 30 June, the liquid assets of Krediidipank made up 39% of the total assets, significantly more than on average in the Estonian banking sector. The bank finances its business activities through clients' deposits and does not take resources from the financial markets.

The Financial Supervision Authority in Estonia carries out the national financial supervision over banks and follows closely the situation following these sanctions.