https://au.news.yahoo.com/thewest/wa/a/32713466/police-charge-man-over-forrest-burglary/
160
16
UPDATE: Police say they have charged a man in connection with a burglary on the Cottesloe home of mining billionaire Andrew Forrest.

VIDEO Burglary on billionaire Andrew Forrest's Cottesloe mansion

The John Street home was burgled last Saturday, with a thief breaking in and taking $12,500 of jewellery.

Police announced this morning they had charged a 31-year-old Mt Claremont man with burglary and commit, stealing and trespass.

He is due to appear in the Perth Magistrates Court on October 18.

Police released CCTV footage of the alleged jewel thief showing him attempting to open a gate and wandering the grounds of the Forrest home.

Police allege the man broke into the house before rummaging through rooms and leaving with a quantity of jewellery.

Separately, The Weekend West revealed yesterday that Mr Forrest had been the victim of a half-million-dollar high-tech theft after his laptop was targeted with a computer virus that siphoned cash from family bank accounts.

The Supreme Court was told yesterday that Mr Forrest’s legal team “had people on standby at various airports around the country” to serve legal papers on the alleged thief, as a privately owned Forrest family company scrambled to recover the cash.

The Weekend West understands about $615,000 was allegedly stolen from Forrest family accounts after an infected spreadsheet was installed on a home computer.

The accounts were accessed early this month, with a big sum transferred from the accounts in a single hit.

Forrest Family Investments, owned by Mr Forrest and wife Nicola, launched legal action in the Supreme Court to recover the cash from the alleged culprit, named in court as NSW man Igors Urvancevs.

The Supreme Court yesterday extended orders freezing a “large number” of bank accounts associated with Mr Urvancevs.

Justice Jeremy Allanson also granted orders preventing overseas travel by Mr Urvancevs, who is believed to have remained in the country.

A Forrest family spokeswoman said they could not comment as the matter was the subject of a police investigation.

A local newspaper reported this week that a “Cottesloe couple” had been defrauded after a CSV file was uploaded to a Hewlett Packard ProBook before August 30.

It was said the bank alerted the couple to the issue and they disconnected the computer from their home network.

Mr Forrest is thought to be worth about $5 billion and is among Australia’s 10 richest people.