http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/ukips-mike-hookem-wont-suspended-9130949
160
16
Ukip's Mike Hookem will not face suspension over claims he was involved in an 'altercation' which left a fellow MEP in hospital, the party said today.

Steven Woolfe , who quit the party last week, claims Mr Hookem punched him during the fracas, which he says occurred after the pair left a meeting of Ukip MEPs in the European Parliament in Strasbourg.

After an argument in the meeting, Mr Woolfe suggested the pair go outside and discuss it man to man.

They went to an ante-room off the main conference room, where Mr Woolfe insists a blow from Mr Hookem knocked him back into the meeting room.

Mr Hookem says no punches were thrown, saying he and Mr Woolfe "hugged like tarts."

Mr Woolfe later collapsed and was taken to hospital suffering from seizures.

Steven Woolfe is visited in hospital by Nigel Farage

In a statement, Paul Oakden said the only eye-witness evidence of the event is that the pair decided to go into the ante room together.

"In the absence of eye witnesses," he said, "the true facts of what took place in the ante room itself are impossible to determine and neither man has made an official complaint to the party over the incident.

"Had Mr Woolfe not collapsed later that day, we may never have known that the altercation took place at all.

"However, as Chairman, I’m appalled that such a situation could arise between two of our most high profile representatives and I have strongly considered suspension as a possible course of action."

Video loading Watch next Watch this video again Watch Next Click to play Tap to play The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

But, he said, Mr Hookem had an "excellent record in representing Ukip and its values," and he had made an apology and shown regret.

He added: "Mr Hookem, whilst foolish, was not the instigator of this incident or subsequent press coverage and as such cannot be held principally responsible for either taking place.

"In light of this, a formal reprimand will be placed on Mr Hookem’s internal record, to be considered in the event of a reoccurrence of any infraction which might cause damage to the reputation of the party.

"Both I, and this investigation now consider this matter closed".

Earlier today, European Parliament President Martin Schulz referred the incident to the French Police for investigation.