http://www.freemalaysiatoday.com/category/nation/2016/08/26/three-tan-sris-must-clear-their-names-says-envoy/
160
16
The allegations against them are "very serious" and involve national security and an attempt to interfere with the democratic system of the country, says Malaysia's Ambassador to Indonesia Zahrain Mohamed Hashim.

JAKARTA: The three former Malaysian senior government officers who are alleged to have been involved in a conspiracy to topple Prime Minister Najib Razak must clear their names by issuing statutory declarations, said Malaysia’s Ambassador to Indonesia Zahrain Mohamed Hashim.

They have to do so because the allegations against them were “very serious” and involved national security and an attempt to interfere with the democratic system of the country, he said.

He said that by remaining silent, the three Tan Sris could cause Malaysians to believe that they were involved in the conspiracy.

“The three Tan Sris were appointed by the Yang di-Pertuan Agong to safeguard the integrity of civil servants to serve the ruling government, and they should not get involved in any plot to topple the Prime Minister,” he told reporters here yesterday.

Last weekend, former Malaysian Prime Minister Dr Mahathir Mohamad gave the impression that former Bank Negara Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz, former Attorney-General Abdul Gani Patail and former Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission Chief Commissioner Abu Kassim Mohamed were betrayed in the alleged conspiracy to oust Najib.

Yesterday, Dr Mahathir clarified that there were four Tan Sris involved in the alleged conspiracy and that one of them had betrayed the other three.

This disclosure by Dr Mahathir seemed to confirm widespread speculation that the Tan Sris were involved in the alleged conspiracy.

Dr Mahathir said this after UMNO Youth vice-chief Khairul Azwan Harun said that a police report by him against Zeti, Abdul Gani and Abu Kassim had foiled the alleged attempt to topple the Prime Minister.

Zahrain said the Tan Sris had no option but to clear their names because news on their alleged involvement in the alleged conspiracy had spread far and wide.

“If they were not involved in the conspiracy, they must come out with statutory declarations and take legal action against those who made the allegation if it was slander,” he said.

– BERNAMA