http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/steven-woolfe-mike-hookem-reported-9127344
164
16
Steven Woolfe says the incident resulted in his collapse

Ukip MEP Mike Hookem and former colleague Steven Woolfe have been reported to French police over an ‘altercation’ in the European Parliament.

Steven Woolfe , who quit Ukip last week, says Mr Hookem punched him after a meeting of the party’s MEPs at the European Parliament in Strasbourg.

Martin Schulz, President of the European Parliament, says he has referred the “incident” to French authorities.

Mr Hookem denies hitting Mr Woolfe.

Video loading Watch next Watch this video again Watch Next Click to play Tap to play The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

Mr Woolfe was rushed to hospital after collapsing a few hours after the fracas took place.

Mr Schulz told MEPs the “version of facts given by the two members diverged substantially” and the row appeared to have “happened in the absence of witnesses.”

He said that “given the seriousness of the facts and their possible criminal implications, further evidence is needed to clarify this matter.

“As a result, I have decided to follow the recommendation of the [European Parliament’s] advisory committee, and I have referred this matter to the competent French authorities."

Reuters Martin Schulz has reported the incident to the authorities

ITV News/PA Steven Woolfe

Mr Woolfe abandoned plans to run for the leadership of Ukip last week, saying the party was in a “death spiral” without Nigel Farage at the helm.

He stood by his claim that he had "received a blow" from Ukip MEP Mr Hookem during the altercation at a private meeting at the European Parliament building and revealed he had made a police complaint about the incident.

Mr Hookem has denied hitting the North West MEP and the fallout from the October 6 incident has continued with claims that Mr Woolfe had received warnings about "inappropriate behaviour" from senior party figures.

PA Mike Hookem

Mr Woolfe, who will sit as an independent, said last week that the incident led to him being treated by doctors for two seizures, partial paralysis and the loss of feeling in his face and body.

He insisted a blow from Mr Hookem knocked him back into the meeting room where Ukip MEPs were discussing reports that Mr Woolfe was in talks about defecting to the Conservatives.

Mr Hookem has said Mr Woolfe's political career "was over once he showed disloyalty to the Ukip party and membership when he held talks to join the Tories".

Mr Woolfe had been seen as frontrunner in the race to replace Diane James, whose term as Ukip leader lasted just 18 days.