http://www.4-traders.com/ITT-EDUCATIONAL-SERVICES-12499/news/Former-ITT-Tech-students-declare-debt-strike-I-am-stuck-up-to-my-neck-in-debt-for-the-rest-of-my-l-23056573/
160
16
Sept. 14 --More than 170 former ITT Tech students have joined a debt strike, refusing to pay their federal loans in the wake of the for-profit school's abrupt closing.

The group, which includes six former students from Illinois , claims the shuttered school defrauded them with an education they called a "scam" on an ITT debt strike website.

"I am stuck up to my neck in debt for the rest of my life," posted Marc Asistores , of Chicago . "Now when I interview or submit my resume to future employers they will look at where my education and degree is coming from and laugh."

ITT Technical Institute last week ceased operations at its more than 130 campuses after the U.S. Department of Education cut off access to federal financial aid for new students. The closure affected 40,000 current students and more than 8,000 employees nationwide, the company said.

There were four ITT Tech campuses in Illinois : Arlington Heights , Oak Brook , Orland Park and Springfield .

While Secretary of Education John King Jr . told current ITT students they may be eligible to have their federal loan debt discharged, former students who claim they were defrauded received no such assurances and are seeking relief through the debt strike.

"Each of us is still left with tens of thousands of dollars of debt to you, the very agency that was supposed to have protected us from ITT's scam," the students wrote in a joint letter to President Barack Obama and King, which was published online.

In its most recent annual report, ITT said 73 percent of its employable graduates in 2014 found work by April 2015 in positions that required the "direct or indirect use of skills" taught in their education programs.

The for-profit college industry has been facing increased scrutiny in recent years. Last year, for example, the Education Department fined Corinthian Colleges $30 million for misrepresenting graduates' job placement rates. A fraud investigation found that Corinthian schools paid temporary agencies to hire its graduates for as few as two days and then counted them as placed in their field. It also showed placements that were clearly out of a student's field of study were counted as in-field placements.

The federal sanctions against ITT were based on concerns about the "financial viability" of the 50-year-old company, based in Carmel, Ind. ITT Educational Services generated net income of $23.3 million on nearly $850 million in revenue last year.

If several ongoing federal and state investigations into ITT campuses show evidence of fraud, former students may also be eligible for debt relief, according to the Education Department .

The Debt Collective, a grass-roots group, helped organize the ITT Tech strike. Laura Hanna , co-director of the group, said more than 1,500 former ITT Tech students submitted applications to the Education Department to have their debt discharged.

"I have been overcharged and undereducated," said Alyse Zachary , 32, of Cleveland , on the strike website. "If I can return a defective item ... get discounts or free items for poor service I should be able to do this with my education."

The Debt Collective mobilized a similar strike last year for former students of Corinthian Colleges. California -based Corinthian sold or closed most of its 107 campuses and liquidated its assets through Chapter 11 bankruptcy under pressure from regulators, who alleged deceptive practices.

As of June, the Education Department has agreed to forgive $171 million in student debt held by former Corinthian students.

"Even though that seems like a large number, only a tiny minority of Corinthian debtors have had their loans canceled," Hanna said Wednesday. "Roughly 98 percent have not received relief."

rchannick@chicagotribune.com

___

(c)2016 the Chicago Tribune

Visit the Chicago Tribune at www.chicagotribune.com

Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.