http://www.express.co.uk/news/uk/726683/UKIP-Suzanne-Evans-racist-reputation-unfair-leadership-contest-golliwog
160
16
GETTY Suzanne Evans threw her hat into the UKIP leadership ring last week

Suzanne Evans threw her hat into the UKIP leadership ring last week, before immediately being denounced by the party’s outgoing figurehead Nigel Farage. Despite Evans being his chosen successor when he resigned in 2015 after the general election - which lasted just days before UKIP rejected his decision to quit - she was later suspended for disloyalty following a huge bustup with the leader.

Now, she is keen to shake off any doubts about her commitment to the party - but has also raised a number of controversial topics in the hope of reuniting UKIP amid claims of bitter infighting. In a revealing interview, the leadership hopeful revealed she once owned a golliwog - a children’s toy banned for its derogatory connotations - when she was a child, which she says she “absolutely loved”.

GETTY Nigel Farage is leading the party until a new candidate is elected

But she claims later in life, after a black boyfriend “opened her eyes” to the “unacceptable stereotype”, she “totally saw his point”. Now the 51-year-old hopes to tackle prejudice head on and change the public’s perception of UKIP, despite her claims she has never heard a single racist word in her party. Speaking about negative comments made to the press by UKIP representatives, she said: “There have been times when I’ve cringed, it’s been dreadful. “It’s not nice, being out campaigning and being called a racist in the street. Or being spat on, or being abused. “Changing that unfair reputation of UKIP is vital.”

GETTY Ms Evans admitted she used to own a Golliwog

In the interview with the Guardian, Ms Evans also revealed she was previously against the Tory’s same-sex marriage bill - but now claims she finds it “charming”. She also now approves of gay couples adopting children and says she is delighted that bed-and-breakfast owners can no longer refuse customers out of prejudice. Her comments may come as a surprise to some members of UKIP, a party that has been dogged be alleged homophobic comments in recent years.

Who will the next Ukip leader be? Tue, July 5, 2016 Here are the UKIP candidates vying to replace Nigel Farage. Play slideshow 1 of 8

Changing that unfair reputation of UKIP is vital. Suzanne Evans, UKIP leadership candidate

Ex-Ukip councillor David Silverster infamously claimed flooding in the UK was God's revenge for legalising gay marriage in 2013. And in August 2014, Ukip MEP David Coburn, who describes himself as gay, blasted same-sex marriage as "false b****cks" that "makes a mockery of the holy sacrament of marriage". He said: "What you're doing with the gay marriage issue is you're rubbing people's noses in the dirt."

GETTY Suzanne Evans and Nigel Farage had a huge bust up

GETTY The 51-year-old hopes to tackle prejudice head on

The new leadership contest comes after Diane James resigned just 18 days after she was elected as the party's first female leader on September 16. In a statement she blamed her exit on "personal and professional reasons". WHO IS RUNNING TO BE THE NEXT UKIP LEADER? Ms Evans is one of the frontrunners to be elected as leader following Mr Woolfe's departure with odds of 7/1. The former BBC radio journalist who now runs her own PR company, Evans says she hopes to reestablish her party in the centre and will present herself as the “moderate, sensible face” of UKIP.

Under her leadership, she hopes the party would be “friendlier, more approachable, broaden our appeal” and added: “Do we want to trot along getting one MP into parliament every general election? “Or do we want to put ourselves right at the heart of British politics, and do we want to succeed? If we want to be a party that actually wins elections, we need to do better. “We can’t have continuity Ukip. We need to have a big change that will bring in not just 4 million but 8 million voters. “I’m the candidate that will expand the party, and broaden our appeal, particularly to women, and make us dramatically more electable. “With me as leader of Ukip, we can have a really strong alternative to the Labour party.”

GETTY Raheem Kassam could also become the next UKIP leader

GETTY The new leadership contest comes after Diane James resigned

She has also put forward her vision for Brexit, with her first pledge in her leadership manifesto being to repeal the 1972 European Communities Act - which she claims will be the UK’s best way out of the EU without having to wait for lengthy negotiations after Article 50 is triggered. Raheem Kassam - who lashed out at Evans after she accused him of being “far-right” - could have beat her to the post with odds of 5/1. But today Mr Kassam announced he was stepping out of the leadership race, saying the “path to victory is too narrow”. Candidates also hoping to become UKIP’s top dog include MEP Paul Nuttall, at 2/9, Peter Whittle at 28/1 and outsider David Kurten at 100/1.

IG Bill Etheridge was thrown out of the Tories for posing with golliwog dolls