http://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/windsor/pastor-trump-black-voters-1.3742438
161
16
A black pastor in Detroit is being criticized for accepting an opportunity to interview U.S. presidential candidate Donald Trump.

Pastor Bishop Wayne T. Jackson plans to sit down with the controversial billionaire on Saturday to discuss a range of issues concerning black Americans, including the shootings of young men by police.

Trump will attend a church service before being interviewed by Jackson on the Impact Network, an African-American-owned Christian cable and satellite television station founded by the pastor and his wife, Beverly.

Jackson, who hosts his network's Voices of the People television program, wants to know where Trump stands on police attacks on the black community.

"There have been questionable shootings of unarmed, young black men. We need to make sure these things are addressed," he said. "We can't stand behind police officers who are abusing their badges to kill people."

'Donald Trump is...a racist, a bigot'

Jackson promises the interview would be "a frank, on-air conversation" between he and Trump. He has taken some criticism for accepting Trump's request to do the interview.

Several people slammed the pastor on his Facebook page, where he has been promoting the interview. Despite those criticisms, Jackson defended his decision, saying viewers can make up their own minds about Trump.

"I'm disgusted and frustrated by people moving on emotions and ignorance, and not understanding that African Americans are intelligent enough to know if he's real or he's not," Jackson said.

Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump speaks during a campaign rally at Xfinity Arena at Everett, Tuesday, Aug. 30, 2016, in Everett, Wash. (Evan Vucci/Associated Press)

Reverend W. J. Rideout III of All God's People Church in Detroit doesn't want Trump in the city. Period.

"Donald Trump is, as we know, a racist, a bigot, he is a not a lover of humankind," Rideout said. "We don't want him to be president. We don't need a person like that in office."

He views Trump's visit as a mere ploy to drum up support from black voters.

"We don't need him to come and buy votes from black, African American pastors," Rideout told CBC News. "He has a right to speak wherever, but keep in mind, a person who speaks like this, how can he run our country?"

Rideout plans to demonstrate and protest Trump's appearance, even though Jackson is "a great dear friend of" his.

"I have nothing negative to say about [Jackson]. He's only doing what he'd do, whether it be a presidential candidate, whether it be a movie star," Rideout said. "I'm not protesting Wayne Jackson. I'm not protesting Great Faith Ministries. I'm not protesting Impact Network."

Trump promises black voters

Last week, Trump started campaigning hard for black votes across America, urging black voters to abandon the Democratic Party and give him a chance.

Speaking at a rally in Dimondale, Mich., an overwhelmingly white suburb outside of Lansing, the GOP nominee argued Democrats, including his rival Hillary Clinton, have taken advantage of African-American voters and taken their votes for granted.

"Tonight, I'm asking for the vote of every single African-American citizen in this country who wants to see a better future," Trump told the crowd.

"What do you have to lose by trying something new, like Trump?" he asked them. "You're living in your poverty, your schools are no good, you have no jobs, 58 per cent of your youth is unemployed — what the hell do you have to lose?"

Rideout thinks Trump "is a dime short and a day late" at winning over black voters.

Most polls show Trump trailing Clinton significantly among black voters. President Barack Obama won roughly 93 per cent of black voters in his re-election campaign in 2012.