http://www.dailynews.com/social-affairs/20161005/el-camino-real-high-school-students-rally-to-save-our-charter
164
16
Students protest early Wednesday, Oct. 5, 2016, at El Camino Charter High School in Woodland Hills. The school has been roiled by a controversy over Principal David Fehte’s credit-card spending. (Photo by Dean Musgrove/Los Angeles Daily News)

WOODLAND HILLS >> More than a dozen students at El Camino Real Charter High School rallied outside their school Wednesday, calling for accountability and transparency as administrators deal with Los Angeles Unified School District allegations of “misuse of public funds.”

Later in the day, at least eight teachers and parents spoke in favor of the school’s top administrators at an El Camino school board meeting, calling for unity in the face of an LAUSD probe that some argued is about the district “wanting control of our money.”

About 16 students chanted before classes in support of the public charter school’s future, waving signs such as “Save Our Charter,” “Students care” and “ELCO students (heart symbol) ELCO teachers.”

The possibility that El Camino could lose its charter has come up in the midst of the L.A. Unified probe into administrator spending and fiscal policies at the Woodland Hills school, which has bitterly divided the campus and the El Camino real community.

“We really want to preserve our charter and make sure that our teachers don’t lose their jobs if the charter is taken away,” said Veronica Zelitchenko, a junior who co-organized the rally on Valley Circle Boulevard near Mariano Street, at the early morning protest.

Zelitchenko said she thinks Executive Director David Fehte, who has come under fire for seemingly liberal credit-card spending, and Chief Business Officer Marshall Mayotte, who has oversight duties, should be “put on probation at least” in light of the district’s allegations.

While Fehte “unfairly spending public money” might have been a mistake, she said, “it still shouldn’t have gotten by.”

But Lauren Cromar, a junior who did not participate in the protest, said she too was concerned that her school could return to LAUSD control but thinks the issue has been blown out of proportion.

“I think they’re simple mistakes” made by Fehte and other administrators “and then LAUSD has to make a big deal about it. It’s stupid — they kind of need to get over it.”

LAUSD employees are reviewing El Camino’s detailed response to its “notice of violations” — the first of three steps to potentially revoking the school’s charter — and the district’s Board of Education has until Nov. 22 to act, a district spokeswoman said. LAUSD’s Board of Education approved the notice in August that alleged “fiscal mismanagement,” inadequate school board oversight and other issues at the school.

Advertisement

The school has denied any mismanagement, alleges dozens of errors in the district’s notice and has said Fehte has reimbursed the school for more than $6,000 in “inadvertent personal” expenses in the last three school years.

At an urgent El Camino Real Alliance board meeting Wednesday afternoon, teacher Melissa Charters spoke passionately in favor of the administration before the board went into closed session to discuss possible “discipline/dismissal/release” of one or more employees.

“I believe our administration should not be fired,” Charters, who has taught for 12 years at the school, said. “I’ve seen how hard they work for their school. If mistakes were made, they were corrected.”

Another teacher, Sue Freitag, presented a petition to the board that she said had the signatures of about 120 school employees who support Fehte “and has confidence of the work he has done here.”

But 16-year teacher Cameron Maury, one of two speakers critical of the administration, blamed Fehte for the bitter divisions in the school and said he has witnessed “an epic failure of leadership” in the last year-and-a-half.

“We don’t have middle schools. We don’t have elementary schools,” Maury said referring to an unsuccessful attempt to build a K-8 campus. “The buck has to stop somewhere.”

If the LAUSD board revokes the school’s charter, school officials can appeal to the county and then to the state. If neither entity grants approval, the public charter school would once again revert to district control.

City Editor Ryan Carter contributed to this report.