http://www.philstar.com/headlines/2016/09/07/1621279/lawmakers-duterte-watch-your-mouth
164
16
MANILA, Philippines – Lawmakers described yesterday’s cancellation of the meeting between US President Barack Obama and President Duterte in Laos as an unfortunate incident that must serve as a lesson on diplomacy.

Several senators and two House members said the use of foul language by the President on matters concerning foreign affairs was uncalled for and unnecessary.

Obama and Duterte were supposed to meet yesterday afternoon on the sidelines of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations summit in Vientiane.

But Duterte was quoted as saying, “You must be respectful. Do not just throw questions and statements. P***ng ina, mumurahin kita dyan sa forum na ‘yan (S** of a b**ch, I’ll swear at you in that forum)” when asked how he was planning to discuss the issues on human rights and extrajudicial killings during his meeting with the US President.

Senate Minority Leader Ralph Recto said the incident should serve as a reminder to those officially speaking for the country to not only clearly articulate national policies “but do so in a manner reflective of how we communicate with our friends, which is polite, courteous and respectful.”

Senate President Pro Tempore Franklin Drilon said it was unfortunate that such an important meeting between the two leaders did not push through “because of unnecessary rhetoric over human rights issues.”

Headlines ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1

“Talk about starting off on the wrong foot. We must remember that our foreign policy is shaped in accordance with our national interest. Unfriendly rhetoric and undiplomatic statements will not bring us anywhere,” Drilon said.

Sen. Panfilo Lacson said any statement spoken by a country’s leader would always be construed as a policy statement.

“I hope our President will soon realize that diplomacy is always part and parcel of a country’s foreign policy and being the country’s leader, he shapes that policy,” Lacson said.

Based on reports, Obama was set to raise human rights and extrajudicial killings in light of the spate of killings connected to Duterte’s all-out war against illegal drugs, although the White House said the US President would not “pull punches” on human rights during the meeting.

But Duterte’s statements before he departed for Laos at the Davao International Airport on Monday afternoon prompted Obama to call off the meeting, describing the Philippine leader as a “colorful guy” while expressing doubts on whether talks with him would be constructive and productive.

Consequences

While some were down playing the possible implications of Obama’s move given the strong relations between the US and the Philippines, others expressed concern that this might affect the two countries’ bilateral ties.

Sen. Antonio Trillanes IV, who has been critical of the President, said Duterte’s “vulgar language directed” against Obama was wrong on so many levels and would definitely have “detrimental effects” on the country’s alliance with the US.

“You don’t just slap the face of the most powerful country in the world and expect to get away with it. It was uncalled for and now our country’s security sector would be weakened because of it,” he added.

Sen. Leila de Lima said it was clear that Duterte’s tirades against Obama were “personal” sentiments and characteristic of his colorful personality, but should not reflect that of the Filipino people as a whole.

Magdalo party-list Rep. Gary Alejano said Duterte’s statements were showing his bias for China. “He seems to be more friendly with China rather than the US,” Alejano said.

Alejano and his colleague in the so-called “Legitimate 8,” Northern Samar Rep. Raul Daza, said, “I’m afraid that if we continue this kind of course, we might be isolating ourselves from the rest of the world.”

Alejano said Duterte should issue statements bearing in mind that “we are also part of the international…global community.

“That (human rights issue) is not an imposition on us. We are a signatory to various treaties. We should respect the other agreements. We should also recognize the interest of other countries which are also intertwined with us,” Alejano stressed.

At the same time, Alejano reminded Duterte that “governance is not only about drugs” as he urged the feisty Chief Executive to observe proper decorum and presidential protocol.

“We should not forget that there is an established international order and norms to avoid conflict. Our President wanted to go out of the established standard and norms (including) respect for human rights,” Alejano said.

Just being himself

Duterte expressed regret over what happened in a statement read and explained by his officials in Laos.

Sen. JV Ejercito cited Duterte for admitting his mistake but said a downgrade in development and military assistance would not be surprising at all. Sen. Sherwin Gatchalian noted that despite the “missed opportunity,” it was “promising to see that our President is strong enough to rattle even the most powerful leader in the world.”

Senate President Aquilino Pimentel III said the incident demonstrated the unfamiliarity of the international community with Duterte, who had long used vulgar language in his public speeches and interviews. He said Duterte was just being himself.

Sen. Juan Edgardo Angara expressed confidence that the diplomatic skirmish would be ironed out soon, “perhaps with some skillful diplomacy.” – With Delon Porcalla