http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/delhi/Kejri-says-1k-mohalla-clinic-target-to-miss-Dec-deadline/articleshow/54758340.cms
161
16
NEW DELHI: CM Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday there would be a delay of of two to four months in setting up 1,000 mohalla clinics due to the sudden transfer of the health secretary and land-related issues. He claimed LG Najeeb Jung had given "in-principle approval" to use government land for setting up mohalla clinics.The CM also announced that the government was planning a significant hike in the salaries of 17,000 guest teachers and check pilferage in the PDS system by installing point-of-sale devices at Fair Price Shops."We will set up 1,000 mohalla clinics and 100 poly-clinics soon. We cannot achieve the target (of 1,000 mohalla clinics) by December. There may be a delay of two-four months," Kejriwal said. "There have been a tug of war for the past three-four months. Our health secretary has been transferred. There are also several issues of land for setting up these clinics. One of the municipal corporations had even said that it will demolish all mohalla clinics. These issues are being sorted out."North Corporation had last month decided to remove mohalla clinics built on roadsides, saying the government didn't seek its prior approval.The mohalla clinic scheme is one of the flagship projects of the AAP government. So far, 105 such facilities have come up in different areas with most operating out of porta-cabins.The government is also planning to set up such clinics in commercial hubs to provide medical facility to the working class there. It has identified 300 schools where such clinics will be set up.Regarding the public distribution system, Kejriwal said, "A GPS-based system will be put in place help to keep a track of commodities sent from godowns to the shops and the amount received. Ration card holders will be linked with the Aadhaar biometric system. The entire work will be completed by March 31, 2017."The CM also announced that around 17,000 guest teachers will get fixed monthly salaries of around Rs 32,000- Rs 34,000. "A decision in this regard will be soon taken by the cabinet. We are also working to regularise them and the file pertaining to that decision was sent to the LG earlier. After he returned the file, we are sending it back with some corrections for his approval," Kejriwal added.