http://www.thestar.com.my/news/regional/2016/09/29/ramos-china-trip-on-hold-till-proper-time/
160
16
MANILA: A visit to China by a Philippine special envoy tasked with rebuilding tattered ties with Beijing has been cancelled, his aides said, the latest turn in a foreign policy increasingly unpredictable under the new president.

Fidel Ramos, who was president from 1992-1998, would still go to Beijing when the time was right, according to an aide on Tuesday.

News of the aborted trip was posted on the website of the Philippines embassy in Beijing.

President Rodrigo Duterte picked 88-year-old statesman Ramos to start a dialogue with China in the wake of a landmark ruling by the Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA) in the Hague, which invalidated Beijing’s claim to most of the South China Sea and put much of the region on edge.

No official announcement had been made about the trip, and it was not immediately clear with whom he had planned to meet.

The aide said Ramos still planned to go to Beijing “at the proper time”.

China refuses to recognise the arbitration case.

Both sides have pledged to pursue warmer ties, but it remains unclear how they plan to navigate the issues of the ruling, China’s man-made islands and its blocking of Filipino fishermen at the disputed Scarborough Shoal.

China claims most of the South China Sea, through which more than US$5 trillion (RM20 trillion) of trade moves annually. Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan and Vietnam have rival claims.

China’s Foreign Ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

But a source with direct knowledge of the matter said the reason for cancelling the trip was because it clashed with Duterte’s schedule, who began a visit to Vietnam yesterday.

“The president’s visit to a number of Asian countries is being arranged,” the source added.

Duterte in a speech on Tuesday reiterated his hopes of making China a new friend, along with Russia, and said by next year he will have “entered into so many new alliances”.

His rhetorical outreach towards Russia and China was accompanied for a second day by a chiding of longtime treaty ally and former colonial power the United States, which he would not allow to “impose on us anything”. — Reuters