http://gulfnews.com/opinion/thinkers/brewing-a-nuclear-disaster-1.1909421
163
16
Once upon a time there was a collective belief among American and Russian scientists that they could do something about the shared danger posed by nuclear weapons. They may have joked about being ‘doomed to cooperate’, but it was a wry humour as the suspension of a plutonium disposition agreement clearly reveals

The other day, a little present arrived in the mail. It was a book, or rather a pair of doorstops. Titled Doomed to Cooperate, the massive two-volume set was about 1,000 pages of essays, interviews and vignettes from more than 100 participants in the remarkable period of cooperation between the nuclear weapons complexes of the United States and Russia in the immediate post-Cold War period. Siegfried Hecker, who edited the volumes, titled them after the remark of a Soviet scientist, who said of the shared danger that nuclear weapons pose, “Therefore, you know, we were doomed to work together, to cooperate”.

Set against relations between Washington and Moscow today, the incredible stories in Hecker’s two volumes seem to be from another era entirely. Last Monday, Russian President Vladimir Putin issued a decree suspending a plutonium disposition agreement with the US due to its “unfriendly actions”. (An unofficial translation is available from the Centre for Energy and Security Studies in Moscow, as is a draft law submitted by the Kremlin.) Putin’s decree ends one of the last remaining forms of cooperation from that remarkable era.

“Plutonium disposition” is a fancy sort of phrase, a kind of term of art. But plutonium is the stuff of which bombs are made. After the Cold War, the US and Russia agreed to dispose of tonnes of plutonium to make sure it could never be put back into bombs. So believe you me, when the Russians decide that maybe they should just hang on to that material for a while longer, it’s not so boring.

And we’re talking about a lot of plutonium here. If you recall the dark days of the Cold War, or maybe just read about them in a book, the US and Soviet Union each had tens of thousands of nuclear weapons. That’s sort of insane if you think about what just one nuclear bomb did to Hiroshima and another to Nagasaki. But the US and the Soviet Union each built stockpiles in excess of 30,000 nuclear weapons at their peak, massive arsenals of nuclear weapons that vastly exceeded any conceivable purpose. And at the beating heart of the vast majority of those bombs were tiny little pits of plutonium.

Washington and Moscow have made great strides in reducing their vast nuclear arsenals, although they still have more than enough nuclear weapons to kill each other and then make the rubble bounce. The US, for example, has reduced its stockpile from a peak of 31,255 nuclear weapons in 1967 to 4,571 in 2015. Let’s just say Russia’s stockpile is comparable, though perhaps not quite as modest.

Of course, retiring a nuclear weapon requires it to be dismantled. In the US, a backlog of thousands of weapons awaits dismantlement. That queue stretches to 2022, and few experts think the US will meet that target. And even once a weapon is dismantled, that still leaves the plutonium. As long as the plutonium exists, it can be turned back into a nuclear bomb.

The US and Russia have lots and lots of plutonium left over from the Cold War. Neither country makes new plutonium anymore, or at least no weapons-grade plutonium, but don’t worry — there’s still more than enough to keep you up at night. The International Panel on Fissile Materials, at Princeton University, estimates the stockpiles of weapons-grade plutonium at 88 metric tonnes for the US and 128 metric tonnes for Russia.

To give you a sense of how much plutonium that is, it is an unclassified fact that a nuclear weapon can be made with as little as 4kg of plutonium. It’s a slightly touchier subject that this is the average in the US stockpile — one can make do with less. But let’s do the math: Even at 4kg per nuclear weapon, 88 metric tonnes represent enough material for 22,000 nuclear weapons.

One hundred and twenty-eight metric tonnes is enough for 32,000 nuclear weapons. Want to get your arms race on?

Possibility of resuming the arms race

When the Cold War ended, the more enlightened souls among us realised that reducing these stockpiles of plutonium was a critical task. As long as the plutonium remained, so did the possibility of resuming the arms race. Or, the possibility that the material might fall into the wrong hands. A pair of studies by America’s National Academy of Sciences (published in 1994 and 1995) called excess fissile material a “clear and present danger to national and international security”.

The US and Russia freely admitted that much of their stockpiles of plutonium and highly-enriched uranium were in excess to any conceivable need. In addition to programmes to help Russia keep track of its massive amount of material, Washington and Moscow agreed to eliminate some of it. For the plutonium stockpile, in 2000, the US and Russia each offered 34 metric tonnes for elimination under the Plutonium Management and Disposition Agreement. That represents 8,500 nuclear weapons that Russia will never build and another 8,500 nuclear weapons that will never enter the US arsenal. Of course, that was only a portion of the massive stockpile, but along with an agreement to “downblend” highly-enriched uranium, it was a promising start to making sure the arms race never started up again.

And then ... nothing happened. As it turns out, Washington and Moscow make better enemies than friends.

Plutonium isn’t easy to dispose of, and the US and Russia quarrelled endlessly about how to eliminate the material. The story of why the material was never disposed of is long and complicated, involving different technological attitudes in Russia and the US.

The simplest way to put it is this: The US and Russia quickly fell to arguing, requiring a new disposition plan in 2007, followed by more arguing until the disposition plan was amended in 2010, and both sides were still arguing about amending the deal when Putin finally pulled the plug last week. Pavel Podvig, who literally wrote the book on Russia’s nuclear programme, tells the whole sordid story if you want to read about it.

At some level, though, the details don’t matter. The technical and political questions of how best to eliminate the plutonium pale in comparison to the political urgency of eliminating the threat it poses — they should. If either side wanted a solution, there were options. Knowledgeable observers like Podvig offered plenty of constructive solutions that might have kept the agreement alive. But both US and Russia collectively chose to do nothing.

And so here we are. Putin’s decree states that Russia isn’t planning on turning the plutonium back into weapons just yet. But there is no reason it couldn’t. And there is no clear plan for what happens to it now. The plan seems to be that the US and Russia will simply continue to sit on tens of thousands of nuclear weapons’ worth of plutonium for the indefinite future. (Oh, and plutonium ages better than Sophia Loren, so the bombs that might be built out of it could be menacing your grandchildren.)

If you think about it, this isn’t really a plan at all — just a terrible inability to do anything in the face of a common danger or head off what looks like a return to Cold War animosity.

If anything makes Hecker’s collection of stories seem like they come from another time, it is that. Once upon a time, there was a collective belief among American and Russian scientists that they could do something about the shared danger posed by nuclear weapons. They may have joked about being “doomed to cooperate,” but it was a wry humour. These men and women who were charged with building the weapons to destroy one another still believed that they could work together to make the world a safer place. They have lost that sense. And without the belief that they can cooperate, what are we other than doomed?

— Washington Post

Jeffrey Lewis is an American expert in nuclear nonproliferation and geopolitics, currently an adjunct professor at the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies (CNS) at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies at Monterey, and director of the CNS East Asia Nonproliferation Programme.