http://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/gaz-beadle-reveals-caged-deportation-8648877
160
16
Controversial reality star Gaz Beadle has opened up about his recent shocking run-in with immigration police.

The Geordie Shore star was forced to cancel a string of promotional events after he was detained in Australia last week.

The star, who claims that his refusal to update his "battered" passport was the reason he was turned away from the country, has revealed that it was the least of his worries.

When he returned to Australia, Gaz claims that he was quickly taken aside and whisked off to a deportation centre - not a prison cell as rumours claimed.

Splash Gaz was detained in Australia

"Not a jail cell, not a holding cell, a deportation centre," he wrote in his latest Daily Star column.

"I walked into this place that was on a military base and was led to a room full of bunk beds with four other guys in it," he continued.

Gaz admitted that he began to "crap himself" when his bunkmate told him he had been held in the facility for over three years.

After a day in the detainment centre, his passage out the country was finally given the all-clear - but Gaz says that authorities had to escort him every step of the way.

ITV Gaz Beadle fuelled rumours he had been in jail

He said: "We got to the airport and I was physically taken onto the plane by immigration officials, properly felt like I was on the Most Wanted list."

Hours after making his flight, Gaz fuelled rumours he'd spent time behind bars when he tweeted: "F***ing hell eventually I am back online.... Last 36 hours you just wouldn't believe!!!!"

Twitter / Gaz Beadle

He was forced to cancel a personal appearance in the country with his co-star Marty McKenna, and apologising to fans with no explanation, he tweeted: "Unfortunately I won't be at @themillhotel1 tonight, but @Marty_GShore will still be there smashing it xxx."

Unfortunately I won't be at @themillhotel1 tonight, but @Marty_GShore will still be there smashing it xxx pic.twitter.com/LQKiy1LSoW — GAZ (@GazGShore) 12 August 2016

He was due to join his co-star Marty McKenna at The Edge's One Night Stand Party in Auckland last Thursday night.

Immigration New Zealand (INZ) confirmed to the Daily Star that Gaz was refused entry when he travelled to Queenstown from Australia on Tuesday.

FameFlynet.uk.com Gary is not stranger to a bit of trouble

Gaz tweeted a photo from his plane window as he flew over New Zealand earlier this week, but he is yet to comment on claims he was stopped by border control.

NZ pic.twitter.com/yQcUxwes9O — GAZ (@GazGShore) August 9, 2016

Hi pic.twitter.com/rzcz0e488m — GAZ (@GazGShore) July 26, 2016

Party organisers The Edge had previously spoken out about Marty attending the event, apparently saying: "To make Marty an official Kiwi, we thought it was only fair to put him through a Kiwi initiation. Guy, Sharyn and Clint will be touring the country and putting him through his paces but the bonus is, you can do it with them.

"Join us for the biggest party of the year at The Edge One Night Stand, and you never know, you may just....you know. Let's just say, he LOVES the Kiwi girls!"

Looks like @Marty_GShore came more than prepped for Queenstown's weather #EdgeGeordieTour pic.twitter.com/0j0EA6xTNL — The Edge (@TheEdgeNZ) August 8, 2016

Can't wait to hit the studio again bro @realguyritchie you ready X see you soon @TheEdgeNZ X pic.twitter.com/tHc7OxQqo0 — GAZ (@GazGShore) July 24, 2016

Marty went ahead, despite his pal being stopped at the airport, and The Edge later posted a photo of him wrapped up in New Zealand itself, writing: "Looks like @Marty_GShore came more than prepped for Queenstown's weather."

Immigration New Zealand told the site: "There are certain conditions that all temporary visitors to New Zealand must meet in order to be eligible for entry. The onus is on the visitor to satisfy INZ that they meet all of the entry requirements at the time they travel to New Zealand.

@GazGShore/Twitter Gary Beadle on Twitter

Video loading Watch next Watch this video again Watch Next Click to play Tap to play The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

"Mr Beadle did not meet these requirements. He was put on a flight back to Australia [on Wednesday] afternoon after being released on conditions which allowed him to spend [Tuesday] night at his pre-arranged accommodation."

We have contacted Gaz's reps for comment.