http://www.thestar.com.my/news/nation/2016/10/18/mca-amanah-syariah-bill/
160
16
PETALING JAYA: DAP must explain its silence over Parti Amanah Negara's (Amanah) proposed Private Member’s Syariah Bill, said MCA Religious Harmony Bureau chairman Datuk Seri Ti Lian Ker (pic).

"Since DAP severed ties with PAS, why is DAP silent with Amanah (the way they were silent with PAS before) given Amanah’s announcement yesterday?" said Ti in a statement on Tuesday.

"MCA is amazed that DAP is still in partnership with Amanah without a whimper. If the reverse applies, DAP will be shouting at MCA to make a stand or quit BN," Ti said.

He added that even though DAP and PAS are publicly divorced, the parties still remain quietly together in the Selangor government.

Amanah announced on Monday that it would be tabling its own proposed amendments to the Syariah Courts (Criminal Jurisdiction) Act 1965.

Its communications director Khalid Samad said the motion tabled by Amanah would, in principle, be similar to PAS president Datuk Seri Abdul Hadi Awang's Private Member's Bill, adding that the motion had the consensus of its Pakatan Harapan partners.

DAP and PKR, however, responded later that they would be studying the motion.

Ti, who is also an MCA Central Committee Member, said that in contrast, MCA ministers and deputy ministers have stood unequivocally against Hadi's Bill and publicly put their ministerial posts on the line.

"To date, neither the DAP Penang Chief Minister YAB Lim Guan Eng or any of the DAP excos in the Penang and Selangor state excos are willing to surrender their coveted state government posts.

"Not one of them has even uttered a sound or whimper to admonish Amanah for pulling the carpet from under their feet or put their foot down and insist that Pakatan should stop sharing power with PAS in Selangor," he said.

Ti said that if Amanah's proposal has been accepted by DAP, the party must clarify how and why it came to support it.

In a separate statement, MCA Religious Harmony Bureau secretary Chris Daniel Wong said that DAP should "come clean" on the Bill and stop "misleading the public".

"I wonder what is the difference between supporting Amanah's version of hudud and PAS' version of proposed changes to the Syariah Court (Criminal Jurisdiction) Act 1965? Both are the same which at the end, leads to implementation of hudud law in the states and then Malaysia," he said.

"DAP must not shift the goalpost to fulfill its agenda of getting Malay votes by playing this dangerous game," he said.