http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/indian-surgical-strikes-pok-uri-attacks-narendra-modi-india-pakistan-relations-saarc-nations/1/776451.html
163
16
Highlights 1 #ModiPunishesPak started trending on top on Twitter after the surgical strike

2 Till yesterday, Modi was under attack from section of intelligentsia and social media

3 Pakistan was at the receiving end at the UN General Assembly meet earlier this week

India conducted surgical strikes against Pakistan and Indian social media burst into joy. #ModiPunishesPak started trending on top on Twitter. Even Prime Minister Narendra Modi's rivals started praising the government and the Indian Army's unprecedented move.

But till yesterday, Modi was being mocked by his detractors with jibes like '56-inch chest' and 'getting 10 heads for one beheading'. He was under attack from a section of intelligentsia and social media. They accused him of having formulated a flawed Pakistan policy or for not having any policy at all. Hence, when analysed minutely, it may be inferred that the BJP-led NDA government's Pakistan policy has been strategically planned, albeit with a few aberrations.

ALSO READ: Avenging Uri: How India conducted surgical strikes in Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir



Ever since Modi government came to power on May 26, 2014, India's relations with Pakistan can be categorised in three phases. While India had a clear-cut upper hand over Pakistan in the first and the last phase, it faltered in the middle phase.

Modi started his relations with Pakistan on a clean slate. He ignored the turbulent past not of the previous UPA government headed by Manmohan Singh when 26/11 Mumbai terror attack took place in 2008. He also chose to leave behind Pakistan's stabbing in the back with the Kargil war soon after the then BJP prime minister AB Vajpayee's 'bus diplomacy' to Lahore in 1999.

FIRST PHASE

The first phase of NDA's Pakistan policy got off to a pleasant start on the very day Modi was sworn as Prime Minister. He invited his Pakistani counterpart Nawaz Sharif along with heads of other South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) nations. It remained the high point of the oath-taking ceremony and was not just discussed but praised world over.

While Modi gifted a shawl to Sharif's mother, the latter reciprocated with a sari for the Indian PM's mother. This is now being mocked as 'sari-shawl diplomacy'.

Modi received the first jolt when despite extending a hand of friendship, Pakistan indulged in more than a dozen cease fire violations on the Indo-Pak borders just two months later in July 2014.

Opinion: Indian Army's surgical strikes should make Pakistan think twice before trying another Uri



In August 2014, the Modi government received another jolt when the Pakistani High Commissioner met the Hurriyat leaders before the official talks. Pakistan had chosen to ignore a pre-condition imposed by India to talks with Pakistan. In a knee-jerk reaction, India cancelled the foreign secretary meet.

This did raise tensions between the two neighbouring countries. Modi and Sharif met in Kathmandu in November 2014 at the SAARC summit. They shook hands but did not hold any bilateral talks.

ALSO READ: Claims denied: How Pakistan media is treating India's surgical strike



The next meeting between the two leaders took place in July 2015 in the Russian town of Ufa on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation summit. There was a step backward when Sartaj Aziz, member of Pakistan's National Security Agency, cancelled his visit to New Delhi in August 2015, blaming India's refusal to allow a meeting with the Hurriyat leaders.

However, Modi and Sharif met again in November in Paris on the sidelines of the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference. This was followed by External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj travelling to Islamabad.

The highest point of the first phase of India's Pakistan policy came thereafter. In an unscheduled visit during his return journey from Afghanistan, Modi made a brief stopover at Lahore to personally wish Sharif on his birthday on December 25, 2015. Modi had pulled off a coup of sorts. His unprecedented gesture had taken South Asia by storm.

This 'birthday diplomacy' was again an attempt by Modi to build a personal rapport with Sharif and, through him, with the Pakistani establishment. The motive was to ease age-old tensions between the two countries and try to find a solution to the vexed Kashmir problem and the terror attacks from across the border.

However, amid this euphoria, there also was a lurking fear of Pakistan stabbing India in the back. There was a background to it. Vajpayee's bus to Lahore was reciprocated by Kargil misadventure. Coincidentally, Sharif was the PM then too. Hence, the apprehensions of Modi meeting the same fate were also quite strong.

Modi had not paid heed to the age old adage of 'once bitten is twice shy'. He paid for it. Pakistan, and particularly Sharif, proved untrustworthy forever when, within a week of Modi's walking extra mile, the Indian Air Force base in Pathankot was attacked on January 2, 2016 allegedly by Pakistani terrorists in which six Indian military personnel were killed.

SECOND PHASE

With the Pathankot attack, the Indo-Pak relations entered the second phase. Though the bonhomie between Modi and Sharif had dissipated into thin air by then, the Indian PM still wanted to give peace one last chance.

ALSO READ: Will Pakistan hit back? Villages close to border being evacuated, leaves of soldiers cancelled



He agreed to a joint India-Pakistan investigation team to inspect the Pathankot terror attack. In March, the team visited Pathankot to investigate the incident. However, within a few days of their visit, the Pakistani media quoted the team's report as saying that India had "staged" the encounter to defame the neighbouring country.

Modi apparently got disillusioned with Pakistan's ploy. He almost lost hope. Hence, he changed tack and raked up terrorism and Pakistan's Achilles' heel - Balochistan, Gilgit, Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK).

THIRD PHASE

Modi's hopelessness with Pakistan got sealed with the September 18 Uri terror attack. This has taken India-Pakistan relations to the third phase. Modi has run out of patience. It is now clear that whatever India does, Pakistan will not honour them. Pakistan is now a declared untrustworthy neighbour.

Modi sensed the mood of the country and compared the anger of the people to that witnessed during the 1965 war. He tweeted the same day: "We strongly condemn the cowardly terror attack in Uri. I assure the nation that those behind this despicable attack will not go unpunished."

However, this retaliation was not to come in the form of a full scale war. Modi has embarked on an untreaded path. He will make Pakistan bleed with thousand cuts just as Pakistan has been pledged with India. The process has already got underway.

This week, the PM presided over a meeting to review the Indus Waters Treaty which is skewed in favour of Pakistan. India is unlikely to either abrogate or violate the treaty. But it will claim its share of water. This has forced Pakistan to rush to the World Trade Organisation (WTO).

India had missed two opportunities to abrogate the treaty. It could have revoked it in 1965 and 1972 after the two wars. No previous government had attempted to corner Pakistan through the Indus Waters Treaty.

Modi is also likely to review the Most Favoured Nation (MFN) status granted to Pakistan in 1996. It is likely to move WTO for action against Pakistan for not reciprocating in two decades and missing several deadlines. No other government before had even thought of it.

Just yesterday, in a major embarrassment to Pakistan, the forthcoming South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) summit in Islamabad was cancelled after India decided to boycott it. Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Bhutan backed India and they too decided to skip the summit. Pakistan virtually got isolated in South Asia.

ALSO READ: Drones filmed operation, 2 soldiers hurt by mines: All you need to know about the surgical strike



Pakistan was at the receiving end of nations even at the UN General Assembly meet earlier this week. Afghanistan Vice President Sarwar Danish slammed it and said that the world knew where Taliban leaders lived. External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj too appealed to the world to isolate Pakistan. However, Pakistan did not find support from any country, not even from other Islamic countries or its strong ally China.

But the third phase of India-Pakistan relations touched pinnacle today when India conducted surgical strikes inside Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) reportedly killing 38 terrorists and soldiers.

The same people, such as Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, who had been mocking Modi, were all praises for the Centre and Indian Army's move.

Barring the two wars, no previous government had overtly breached the Pakistani territory to carry out strikes. It did not happen even during the Kargil War. But today, Modi has set a new template.

The PM had given a long rope to Pakistan to call truce and mend relations. However, the neighbouring country continued with its nefarious designs. Modi could not have launched a multiple attack on Pakistan had he not started off his relations with Islamabad on a clean slate. And this is why, his overtures in the form of 'sari-shawl' and 'birthday' diplomacies stand vindicated today.

ALSO READ:

Nawaz Sharif after India's surgical strike: Don't take our peaceful intent for weakness

Double whammy for Pakistan; Iran fires mortars into Balochistan

Watch the video here:

