http://www.business-standard.com/article/pti-stories/russia-accuses-us-of-siding-with-terrorists-in-syria-116092901288_1.html
160
16
Russia accuses US of siding with 'terrorists' in Syria

Russian officials accused the US today of siding with "terrorists" in Syria, in a sign of escalating tensions between Moscow and amid the battle for Aleppo.



US State Department spokesman John Kirby's warning that the collapse of US-Russian cooperation in Syria could lead to a rise in extremism and potential attacks against drew Moscow's anger.



The Russian Foreign and Defense Ministries both cast it as US encouragement of terror attacks on Russia.



"We can't assess those statements as anything else but a call, a directive for action," Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said at a briefing.



Defense Ministry spokeswoman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said Kirby's statement amounted to "the most frank confession by the US side so far that the whole 'opposition' ostensibly fighting a 'civil war' in Syria is a US-controlled international terrorist alliance."



"What makes Kirby's statement particularly shocking is that the scale of direct US influence on terrorists' activity is global and reaches as far as Russia."



The remarks by Russian officials have shown a degree of mistrust and strain between Moscow and after the collapse of the US-Russia-brokered truce and the Syrian army onslaught on Aleppo backed by Russian warplanes.



The growing friction makes it increasingly unlikely that the cease-fire could be revived.



US Secretary of State John Kerry threatened yesterday to cut all cooperation with Moscow on Syria unless an onslaught on Aleppo ends.



Kirby, asked what the consequences would be for if cooperation with the US in Syria collapsed, said "that extremists and extremists groups will continue to exploit the vacuums that are there ... Which will include, no question, attacks against Russian interests, perhaps even Russian cities, and will continue to send troops home in body bags."



Konashenkov interpreted Kirby's statement as a direct threat to the Russian military in Syria. He said that remains open for dialogue with on Syria, but added that the US needs to "exclude even a hint at threatening our military and Russian citizens.

(This story has not been edited by Business Standard staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)

AP