http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/curfew-restrictions-and-stone-pelting-continue-for-48th-day-in-kashmir/1/748474.html
160
16
Highlights 1 Close to 20 people including three senior police officers were injured.

2 Suspected militants hurl grenades at cops in Pulwama.

3 Eight incidents of stone pelting were reported in Kashmir.

Tension continued to prevail in the Valley for 48th day. The government decided to continued curfew and restrictions as the separatists extended the protest shutdown till September 1.

The death toll mounted to 69 after a young boy was killed in clashes with the security forces in Pinglina village of Pulwama district on Wednesday.

Close to 20 people including three senior police officers were injured when suspected militants hurled grenades at them in Pulwama town yesterday.

STONE PELTERS AND SECURITY FORCES CLASH

According to a statement issued by the Zonal Police Headquarters, Kashmir, eight incidents of stone pelting were reported from Pulwama, Budgam, Srinagar, Baramulla, Kupwara and Bandipora.

The statement said, during stone pelting near Degree College Pulwama, militants hiding in the mob fired and hurled two grenades on the deployment resulting in injuries to 17 police and CRPF personnel and some civilians. "The injured include CO 183 Bn CRPF, ASP Pulwama, DySP Pulwama and SHO Pulwama," the statement added.

It further reads that at Pinglina, Pulwama miscreants assembled on road and started heavy stone pelting on the police and security force deployment. In order to clear the road and chase the miscreants, Police/Security forces were compelled to use some force, which caused injuries to few miscreants. "One of them identified as Amir Gul Mir son of Ghulam Mohammad Mir resident of Ratnipora succumbed to his injuries, the statement said. In this incident a number of police and security forces personnel were also injured," the statement added.

Union Home Minister, Rajnath Singh arrived in Kashmir on Wednesday on a two-day visit where he held a security review meeting with top civil, police, paramilitary, intelligence and army officials.

ALSO READ:

Kashmir talks: Rajnath Singh welcomes all, Hurriyat says no, calls it a farce

