http://nation.com.pk/editorials/11-Oct-2016/stalemate
161
16
Adviser to the Prime Minister on Foreign Affairs Sartaj Aziz and Pakistan’s High Commissioner to India Abdul Basit seem visibly frustrated. In its petulant dance on the redline, Modi has driven the Indian state to regression and open hatred against Muslims. Aziz has said there was little hope for improvement in Pak-India ties as long as Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi is in power.

Pakistan has had to deal with diplomatic uncertainty since 2013, and watch as any progress made since the 90s is washed away.

Manmohan Singh won the 2009 election after the December 2008 terror attacks in Mumbai without threatening Pakistan. Compared to Modi, his predecessor seems benevolent. Modi has been able to tap into enmity that runs deeper than a longing for peace and the Indian people lap up the war hysteria when and where they can. These changes are not going to be easily reversible.

Peace and negotiation are possible, even at the worst times. Former president Pervez Musharraf, with all his strategic mistakes, brought India to the negotiating table, and opposite him was Indian PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee and his close confidant Brajesh Mishra. Vajpayee was also a BJP member, but allowed for a full-scale diplomatic peace process. With the historic inauguration of the Delhi-Lahore bus service in February 1999, the aim was to resolve the Kashmir dispute. The resultant Lahore Declaration espoused a commitment to dialogue, trade relations and envisaged a goal of a denuclearised South Asia. Though impossible goals, this eased the tension created by the 1998 nuclear tests, not only within the two nations but also in South Asia and the rest of the world. Modi has a different agenda.

In 2004, almost all prominent Kashmiri leaders were consulted during the preparation of the framework to resolve the Kashmir dispute. The Government of India tried to discourage Musharraf from meeting Hurriyat leaders during a visit to Delhi, but they did not cancel the talks on this basis. In contrast, a planned meeting between the Indian and Pakistani National Security Advisers was cancelled this August only because New Delhi objected to Sartaj Aziz’s meeting with these leaders.

The only thing that has changed since the 90s is that the Afghan and Iraq Wars have created the monster of terrorism. Rather than helping Pakistan, who has suffered the most from the spillovers of the Cold War and the War on Terror, Pakistan has been turned into the global scapegoat. Terrorism was not an insurmountable problem if Pakistan had not been unnecessarily demonised. India, under the guardianship of PM Narendra Modi, wants Pakistan to burn, knowing that this is how the BJP can gain votes, and how the idea of insecurity will make more people move to the right in India.