http://dailytimes.com.pk/islamabad/11-Oct-16/attempts-to-paralyse-pakistan-will-fail-pm
164
16
ISLAMABAD: Elements wanting to paralyse the country through their negative politics will fail miserably in their attempts, just like they failed in 2014, said Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif while chairing a meeting of the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) Central Working Committee on Monday.

The premier said his government’s agenda was of development and progress, but certain people wanted to derail this process and “only believed in protests”. He said that democracy gives people the right to protest, but within certain limits.

Talking about Kashmir, Nawaz said that India was “sadly mistaken” to equate freedom fighters with terrorists, and vowed Pakistan’s continued support to the Kashmir cause. “I am committed to the Kashmir cause. No power in the world can stop us from supporting the freedom struggle of the Kashmiri people,” he said.

The premier stressed that Burhan Wani, the Kashmiri youth martyred by Indian security forces, was a freedom fighter and the pride of Kashmiris. “No one can deprive him [Wani] of that pride,” he said.

The CEC members, while strongly condemning atrocities by Indian security forces in the disputed state of Jammu and Kashmir, vowed to continue the political, diplomatic and moral support to Kashmiris’ struggling for their right to self determination.

The committee, in a resolution, lauded the courageous and prudent address of the prime minister to the United Nations General Assembly and said it fully reflected the aspirations of the Pakistani and Kashmiri people.

The meeting condemned the gross human rights violations by Indian forces and said engagements of the prime minister with world leaders and international organisations on the issue showed that Kashmir was an unresolved agenda of the subcontinent’s partition.

The PML-N leaders said that lasting peace in the region was not possible without the issue’s settlement in light of the resolutions of the United Nations. “The CEC, while condemning the Indian aggression and violation of the Line of Control, makes it clear that the entire nation was united and our brave armed forces were fully ready to give a befitting response to any aggression,” a statement released from the PM House said.

On the energy crisis, the premier told the participants of the meeting that his government was working day and night to overcome the energy shortage, and vowed to end power load shedding by 2018.

He said more than 10,000 megawatts of electricity would be added to the national grid by 2018. He said that land for the construction of Bhasha Dam had been acquired, for which an amount of Rs 100 billion was released.

Talking about the installation of coal-based power plants, he said that the mining process had been started in Thar, which he said had never happened in 70 years.

The premier recalled that since assumption of power in 2013, the government had been facing several challenges, but was “overcoming the same satisfactorily”.

He said that terrorist activities had been reduced significantly, and the economy was strengthened during the past three years. Nawaz mentioned that the Karachi operation, started with the consultation of all stakeholders, was yielding positive results.

About the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor, the prime minister said the $46 billion project of infrastructure development would benefit Balochistan the most. He mentioned that the government was also focusing on social sector, with several hospitals to be built during the next 18 months. Due to low price of agriculture goods in international market, the government would compensate the farmers, he added.

He said that a subsidy was being given for installation of solar tube-wells in Balochistan.