http://www.iraqsun.com/index.php/sid/248023939
164
16
News that shocked Trump right before the crucial Presidential Debate

Iraq Sun Tuesday 27th September, 2016

• National ICE Council announces its first Presidential endorsement ever in history

• National ICE Council said it endorses Donald Trump

• The council urged Americans to support Trump

WASHINGTON, U.S. - The big Presidential Debate night would certainly have some shockers in store but rest assured this was the bigger shocker that came for Donald Trump, merely hours before he was about to take centre stage at the big Presidential Debate night.

For the first time in history, the National Immigration and Customs Enforcement Council announced a Presidential Endorsement.

On Monday morning, the National ICE Council rocked the world of politics with a clean press statement that was sure to cause ripples across America.

Chris Crane, the President of the organisation wrote in a statement published at DonaldJTrump.com, “We hereby endorse Donald J. Trump, and urge all Americans, especially the millions of lawful immigrants living within our country, to support Donald J. Trump, and to protect American jobs, wages and lives.”

This is the first time ever that the National ICE Council has made an endorsement for a candidate running for an elected office.

Receiving support from the council, that represents 5,000 federal immigration officers and several other law enforcement support staff members is being viewed as a victory for Trump who has reiterated his immigration policy for months now.

In a vote conducted by the council, Trump is said to have emerged right on top, scoring majority of the council support.

Crane’s statement added, “This first-ever endorsement was conducted by a vote of our membership, with Hillary Clinton receiving only 5 percent of that vote.”

Crane further explained that council members disliked Clinton because of her support of “the most radical immigration proposal in U.S. history.”

He said that Clinton’s plan was designed by “special interests and open-borders radicals.”

The statement said, “Her radical plan would result in the loss of thousands of innocent American lives, mass victimisation and death for many attempting to immigrate to the United States, the total gutting of interior enforcement, the handcuffing of ICE officers, and an uncontrollable flood of illegal immigrants across U.S. borders.”

Crane added in his statement that the Democrat candidate would also expand executive amnesty, expand catch-and-release and prioritise the non-enforcement of America’s federal immigration laws.”

He said, “America has been lied to about every aspect of immigration in the United States. We can fix our broken immigration system, and we can do it in a way that honors America’s legacy as a land of immigrants, but Donald Trump is the only candidate who is willing to put politics aside so that we can achieve that goal.”

Trump’s hardline position on illegal immigration and his proposal to build a wall along the U.S. southern border with Mexico have come under the scanner and have been criticised by many.