http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/builder-catches-one-largest-sharks-8630043
160
16
Danny caught the monster beast on his first ever shark-fishing trip

A builder was stunned when he caught one of the largest sharks ever recorded in British waters.

Danny Fitch, 49, was on his first shark fishing trip when he bagged the 242lb blue shark 20 miles off the coast of Wales.

Experts say the 9ft 2ins-long fish is the biggest blue shark ever caught in Welsh waters and the second biggest ever caught in the UK.

Exhausted Danny, from Norfolk, spent 45 minutes reeling in the huge blue shark near Milford Haven.

He struggled to heave the fish on to the charter boat to weigh and photograph it before returning it into the sea.

Experts recently warned that huge numbers of mackerel in UK waters are attracting sharks closer to beaches.

BNPS Amateur fisherman Danny Fitch with the gigantic shark he caught off the Welsh coast

Dad-of-four Danny caught the huge fish while on a day-trip with renowned boat skipper Andrew Allsop.

He said: “This was my first shark fishing trip and I had hoped to catch one of about 100lbs.

“To catch a fish of the size I did is pretty unbelievable. It was really hard, tiring work.

“I got it into the boat four times, and four times it decided it wasn’t coming in and shot off again.

“I was literally hanging out of the side of the boat trying to get it in.

"It was a case of just trying to hang on.

“Andrew did the measurements and went to shake my hand and said ‘Congratulations, this is a record’. It didn’t sink in.

“When I was told how big it was, it was almost a feeling of disbelief.

“Because I haven’t had any experience of shark fishing I couldn’t really appreciate just how good it was because I haven’t seen many sharks.”

Getty Experts have warned that huge numbers of mackerel are attracting sharks closer to beaches

Andrew added: “Moments like this are why a lot of people love to do this.

“You have to wear the shark down over quite a long period and it takes a lot of strength and effort.”

The catch cannot be confirmed as an official UK record because the shark was not weighed on shore - which would have meant killing it.

Blue sharks are registered as Near Threatened by the International Union for Conservation of Nature.

Larger examples tend to be found in warmer waters, where the heaviest ever recorded weighed in at 862lbs. ends Last month hundreds of British holidaymakers were evacuated from a Spanish beach after a swimmer was bitten by a blue shark.

The 40-year-old victim was rushed to hospital with a gaping hand wound following the horror attack on the Costa Blanca.

Eyewitnesses said the man, who lived locally, emerged from the sea in the resort of Elche covered in blood.

Blue sharks have previously killed four people since the 1500s.