http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3810099/Tory-civil-war-EU-deepens-George-Osborne-savaged-trying-rewrite-history-calls-soft-Brexit.html
164
16
George Osborne has admitted the rock bottom interest rates used by the Bank of England to prop up the economy after Brexit and the financial crisis hurt the poor.

In his first criticism of the Bank's policies, the ex-Chancellor said the historically low costs of borrowing since 2008 had made Britain less equal as savings do not grow but house prices soar.

Mr Osborne's remarks come as a Tory civil war over the referendum results and their impact deepens.

George Osborne (pictured in an interview with Bloomberg News today) was savaged by his fellow Tory MP and former Cabinet colleague Iain Duncan Smith for claiming Britain had voted for 'soft Brexit' in the EU referendum

He told Bloomberg TV: 'We need to offset the very necessary loose monetary policy, and the distributional consequences that is having.

'Essentially it makes the rich richer and makes life difficult for ordinary savers.'

Rock bottom interest rates were a key plank of Mr Osborne's economic record and he warned a Brexit vote could send rates soaring - but instead they have been cut further.

Mr Osborne has also claimed that Britain voted for a 'soft Brexit' and did 'not want to be governed from the extremes'.

He also warned that a 'hard-Brexit' deal would have 'severe consequences' for Britain.

But in a withering attack on his ex-Cabinet colleague today, Mr Duncan Smith mocked the former Chancellor for claiming to have 'insider knowledge of what the British people voted for'.

And he said Mr Osborne was among those 'picking over the carcass of a dead event' to re-interpret the result.

Mr Duncan Smith, who quit the Cabinet in March after clashing with Mr Osborne, attacked his former nemesis for his detailed Brexit advice for the Government on the upcoming Brexit negotiations during a lecture in Chicago last week, accusing him of continuing 'Project Fear'.

'He went on as the representative of the liberal mainstream majority (and, it appears, as their spokesman) to warn Theresa May, in terms redolent of Project Fear, that she shouldn't govern from the extremes,' he wrote on the ConservativeHome website today.

'Humility, it seems, can take many forms – though apparently not if one is mainstream, liberal or in the majority.'

But Mr Osborne ignored Mr Duncan Smith's attack, reiterating his plea today for Mrs May to reject a 'hard Brexit' and pursue a deal that would give Britain the closest possible relationship with the EU.

Tory civil war over Brexit deepened today as Iain Duncan Smith (left) accused George Osborne (right) of 're-writing the past' on the EU referendum result

George Osborne also used his media appearance today to comment on the US Presidential election following last night's crucial debate between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump (pictured in the debate). Reiterating his criticism of the Republican candidate, he said: 'I don't think the answers Trump put forward.... are going to create jobs for America or will be good for the world.'

He said the Government is faced with the most important decisions since the War as he urged ministers to prioritise a deal that maintains London's status as the financial capital of Europe and protects EU migrants living in the UK and expats living in other member states.

OSBORNE CONTINUES ROLE AS BACK-SEAT DRIVER George Osborne (pictured) repeated his claims today that Britain voted for a 'soft Brexit' and did 'not want to be governed from the extremes George Osborne risked further accusations of being a back-seat driver today as he warned that the Bank of England's programme of quantitative easing and low interest rates were making life difficult for savers. Despite only leaving his role as Chancellor in July, he appeared to criticise the moves by Governor Mark Carney because they had hugely benefited the rich. 'We need to offset the very necessary loose monetary policy and the distributional consequences that is having,' he told Bloomberg News today. 'Essentially it makes the rich richer and makes life difficult for ordinary savers.'

Speaking during a visit to Washington in the US today, Mr Osborne told Bloomberg News: 'People in Britain took part in a huge democratic exercise – more people voted in the referendum than vote in a general election and they were clear, they wanted to leave the EU.

'But of course, that was the only question on the ballot paper.

'What we didn't put to the British people and what we now need to determine is exactly what now is the trading relationship with Europe.

'How do we make sure London is going to remain a major financial centre in the world? How do we make sure that Britons can go and live and study in Europe, just like European citizens can come to Britain that have answers to some of the concerns that the British public have about that.'

He added: 'These are all crucial decisions; no one at the moment has perfect answers to all of those things – it's not surprising, it's just a few months since the vote. But we've got to work hard as a British government and a British parliament to get the right answers over the next two years and my view is we should be ending up with a – to use the jargon – a softer Brexit than a harder Brexit will be more severe.

'These are some of the most important decisions Britain is going to make since the Second World War and it's absolutely vital that we get them right.'

Mr Osborne risked further accusations of being a back-seat driver as he warned that the Bank of England's programme of quantitative easing and low interest rates were making life difficult for savers.

Despite only leaving his role as Chancellor in July, he said the moves by Governor Mark Carney had made the 'rich richer'.

'We need to offset the very necessary loose monetary policy and the distributional consequences that is having,' he said in his Bloomberg interview.

'Essentially it makes the rich richer and makes life difficult for ordinary savers.'

Mr Osborne also used his media appearance today to comment on the US Presidential election following last night's crucial debate between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump.