https://www.sott.net/article/330721-Arch-neocon-and-president-of-the-National-Endowment-for-Democracy-Carl-Gershman-come-out-and-calls-for-US-to-oust-Putin
160
16
Blaming Putin

A Neocon Slush Fund

"Senator [Orrin] Hatch, as you know, is a member of the board. Secondly, NED has already given a major grant for a related Chinese program."

Neocon Tag Teams

challenging countries deemed insufficiently "free," including Syria, Ukraine (in 2014) and Russia.

that his goal was to oust Russia's elected president.

"This is the context in which Russia has passed the law prohibiting Russian democrats from getting any international assistance to promote freedom of expression, the rule of law and a democratic political system. Significantly, democrats have not backed down. They have not been deterred by the criminal penalties contained in the 'foreign agents' law and other repressive laws. They know that these laws contradict international law, which allows for such aid, and that the laws are meant to block a better future for Russia."

A prominent neocon paymaster, whose outfit dispenses $100 million in U.S. taxpayers' money each year, has called on America to "summon the will" to remove Russian President Putin from office, reports Robert Parry.The neoconservative president of the U.S.-taxpayer-funded National Endowment for Democracy [NED] has called for the U.S. government to "summon the will" to engineer the overthrow of Russian President Vladimir Putin, saying that the 10-year-old murder case of a Russian journalist should be the inspiration.Carl Gershman, who has headed NED since its founding in 1983,that Putin was responsible for the death of Anna Politkovskaya but uses a full column in The Washington Post on Friday to create that impression, calling her death "a window to Vladimir Putin, the Kremlin autocrat whom Americans are looking at for the first time."Gershman wraps up his article by writing: "Politkovskaya saw the danger [of Putin], but she and other liberals in Russia were not strong enough to stop it. The United States has the power to contain and defeat this danger. The issue is whether we can summon the will to do so. Remembering Politkovskaya can help us rise to this challenge."And there is a reason for NED to see its job in that way. In 1983,, except that NED carried out those functions in a quasi-overt fashion while the CIA did them covertly.NED also serves as a sort of slush fund for neocons and other favored U.S. foreign policy operatives because a substantial portion of NED's money circulates through U.S.-based non-governmental organizations or NGOs.That makes Gershman an influential neocon paymaster whose organization dispenses some $100 million a year in U.S. taxpayers' money to activists, journalists and NGOs both in Washington and around the world.NED was a lead actor in the Feb. 22, 2014 coup ousting Ukraine's elected President Viktor Yanukovych in a U.S.-backed putsch that touched off the civil war inside Ukraine between Ukrainian nationalists from the west and ethnic Russians from the east. The Ukraine crisis has become a flashpoint for the dangerous New Cold War between the U.S. and Russia.Before the anti-Yanukovych coup, NED was funding scores of projects inside Ukraine, which Gershman had identified as "the biggest prize" in a Sept. 26, 2013 column also published in The Washington Post.In that column, Gershman wrote that after the West claimed Ukraine, "Russians, too, face a choice, and Putin may find himself on the losing end not just in the near abroad but within Russia itself." In other words, Gershman already saw Ukraine as an important step toward an even bigger prize, a "regime change" in Moscow.Less than five months after Gershman's column, pro-Western political activists and neo-Nazi street fighters - with strong support from U.S. neocons and the State Department - staged a coup in Kiev driving Yanukovych from office and installing a rabidly anti-Russian regime, which the West promptly dubbed "legitimate."The ATO, spearheaded by neo-Nazis from the Azov battalion and other extremists, killed thousands of ethnic Russians, prompting Moscow to covertly provide some assistance to the rebels, a move denounced by the West as "aggression."In his latest column, Gershman not only urges the United States to muster the courage to oust Putin but he shows off the kind of clever sophistry that America's neocons are known for. Though lacking any evidence, he intimates that Putin ordered the murder of Politkovskaya and pretty much every other "liberal" who has died in Russia.It is a technique that I've seen used in other circumstances, such as the lists of "mysterious deaths" that American right-wingers publish citing people who crossed the paths of Bill and Hillary Clinton and ended up dead. This type of smear spreads suspicion of guilt not based on proof but on the number of acquaintances and adversaries who have met untimely deaths.In the 1990s, one conservative friend of mine pointed to the Clintons' "mysterious deaths" list and marveled that even if only a few were the victims of a Clinton death squad that would be quite a story, to which I replied that if even one were murdered by the Clintons that would be quite a story - but that there was no proof of any such thing."Mysterious deaths" lists represent a type of creepy conspiracy theory that shifts the evidentiary burden onto the targets of the smears who must somehow prove their innocence, when there is no evidence of their guilt (only vague suspicions). It is contemptible when applied to American leaders and it is contemptible when applied to Russian leaders, but it is not beneath Carl Gershman.Beyond that, Gershman's public musing about the U.S. somehow summoning "the will" to remove Putin might — in a normal world — disqualify NED and its founding president from the privilege of dispensing U.S. taxpayers' money to operatives in Washington and globally. It is extraordinarily provocative and dangerous, an example of classic neocon hubris.While the neocons do love their tough talk, they are not known for thinking through their "regime change" schemes.Gershman and his neocon pals may fantasize about making Russia's economy scream while financing pro-Western "liberals" who would stage disruptive protests in Red Square, but he and his friends haven't weighed the consequences even if they could succeed.Even if the calculating Putin were somehow removed amid economic desperation, he is far more likely to be followed by a much harder-line Russian nationalist who might well see Moscow's arsenal of nuclear weapons as the only way to protect Mother Russia's honor. In other words, the neocons' latest brash "regime change" scheme might be their last - and the last for all humanity.Gershman's arrogance also raises questions about why the American taxpayer should tolerate what amounts to a $100 million neocon slush fund which is used to create dangerous mischief around the world. Despite having "democracy" in its name, NED appears only to favor democratic outcomes when they fit with Official Washington's desires.But that shouldn't come as a surprise since NED was created in 1983 at the urging of Ronald Reagan's CIA Director William J. Casey, who wanted to off-load some of the CIA's traditional work ensuring that foreign elections turned out in ways acceptable to Washington, and when they didn't - as in Iran under Mossadegh, in Guatemala under Arbenz or in Chile under Allende - the CIA's job was to undermine and remove the offending electoral winner.In 1983, Casey and the CIA's top propagandist, Walter Raymond Jr., who had been moved to Reagan's National Security Council staff, wanted to create a funding mechanism to support outside groups, such as Freedom House and other NGOs, so they could engage in propaganda and political action that the CIA had historically organized and paid for covertly. The idea emerged for a congressionally funded entity that would serve as a conduit for this money.The National Endowment for Democracy took shape in late 1983 as Congress decided to also set aside pots of money — within NED — for the Republican and Democratic parties and for organized labor, creating enough bipartisan largesse that passage was assured.But some in Congress thought it was important to wall the NED off from any association with the CIA, so a provision was included to bar the participation of any current or former CIA official, according to one congressional aide who helped write the legislation.This aide told me that one night late in the 1983 session, as the bill was about to go to the House floor, the CIA's congressional liaison came pounding at the door to the office of Rep. Dante Fascell, a senior Democrat on the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a chief sponsor of the bill.The frantic CIA official conveyed a single message from CIA Director Casey:The aide said Fascell also consented to the Reagan administration's choice of Carl Gershman to head NED, again not recognizing how this decision would affect the future of the new entity and American foreign policy.Gershman, who had followed the classic neoconservative path from youthful socialism to fierce anticommunism, became NED's first (and, to this day, only) president. Though NED is technically independent of U.S. foreign policy, Gershman in the early years coordinated decisions on grants with Raymond at the NSC.For instance, on Jan. 2, 1985, Raymond wrote to two NSC Asian experts that "Carl Gershman has called concerning a possible grant to the Chinese Alliance for Democracy (CAD). I am concerned about the political dimension to this request. We should not find ourselves in a position where we have to respond to pressure, but this request poses a real problem to Carl.From the start, NED became a major benefactor for Freedom House, beginning with a $200,000 grant in 1984 to build "a network of democratic opinion-makers." In NED's first four years, from 1984 and 1988, it lavished $2.6 million on Freedom House, accounting for more than one-third of its total income, according to a study by the liberal Council on Hemispheric Affairs that was entitled "Freedom House: Portrait of a Pass-Through."Over the ensuing three decades, Freedom House has become almost an NED subsidiary, often joining NED in holding policy conferences and issuing position papers, both organizations pushing primarily a neoconservative agenda,Indeed, NED and Freedom House often work as a kind of tag-team with NED financing "non-governmental organizations" inside targeted countries and Freedom House berating those governments if they crack down on U.S.-funded NGOs.Or, as NED and Freedom House framed the issue: the Russian Duma sought to "restrict human rights and the activities of civil society organizations and their ability to receive support from abroad. Changes to Russia's NGO legislation will soon require civil society organizations receiving foreign funds to choose between registering as 'foreign agents' or facing significant financial penalties and potential criminal charges."Of course, the United States has a nearly identical Foreign Agent Registration Act that likewise requires entities that receive foreign funding and seek to influence U.S. government policy to register with the Justice Department or face possible fines or imprisonment.Another bash-Putin tag team has been The Washington Post's editors and NED's Gershman. On July 28, 2015, a Post editorial and a companion column by Gershman led readers to believe that Putin was paranoid and "power mad" in worrying that outside money funneled into NGOs threatened Russian sovereignty.The Post and Gershman were especially outraged that the Russians had enacted the law requiring NGOs financed from abroad and seeking to influence Russian policies to register as "foreign agents" and thatThe Post's editors wrote that Putin's "latest move ... is to declare the NED an 'undesirable' organization under the terms of a law that Mr. Putin signed in May [2015]. The law bans groups from abroad who are deemed a 'threat to the foundations of the constitutional system of the Russian Federation, its defense capabilities and its national security.'"The charge against the NED is patently ridiculous. The NED's grantees in Russia last year ran the gamut of civil society. They advocated transparency in public affairs, fought corruption and promoted human rights, freedom of information and freedom of association, among other things. All these activities make for a healthy democracy but are seen as threatening from the Kremlin's ramparts.The new law on 'undesirables' comes in addition to one signed in 2012 that gave authorities the power to declare organizations ' foreign agents ' if they engaged in any kind of politics and receive money from abroad. The designation, from the Stalin era, implies espionage."However, among the relevant points that the Post's editors wouldn't tell their readers was the fact thatIn his July 28, 2015 column, Gershman further deemed Putin's government illegitimate. "Russia's newest anti-NGO law, under which the National Endowment for Democracy ... was declared an "undesirable organization" prohibited from operating in Russia, is the latest evidence that the regime of President Vladimir Putin faces a worsening crisis of political legitimacy," Gershman wrote, adding:The reference to how a "foreign agents" registration law conflicts with international law might have been a good place for Gershman to explain why what is good for the goose in the United States isn't good for the gander in Russia. But hypocrisy is a hard thing to rationalize and would have undermined the propagandistic impact of the column.Also undercutting the column's impact would be an acknowledgement of where NED's money comes from. So Gershman left that out, too. After all, how many governments would allow a hostile foreign power to sponsor politicians and civic organizations whose mission is to undermine and overthrow the existing government and put in someone who would be compliant to that foreign power?And, if you had any doubts about what Gershman's intent was regarding Russia, he dispelled them in his Friday column in which he calls on the United States to "summon the will" to "contain and defeat this danger," which he makes clear is the continued rule of Vladimir Putin.Investigative reporterbroke many of the Iran-Contra stories for The Associated Press and Newsweek in the 1980s. You can buy his latest book, America's Stolen Narrative, either in print here or as an e-book (from Amazon and barnesandnoble.com ).