http://www.bangkokpost.com/tech/local-news/1087097/nbtc-files-b1-7bn-suit-against-true-move-dpc
160
16
A man uses his mobile phone while walking past a True Move advertisement. Both True Move and DPC have disagreed with the NBTC's compensation demands regarding their 2G mobile network concession agreements.PATIPAT JANTHONG

The National Broadcasting and Telecommunications Commission (NBTC) filed a lawsuit yesterday against True Move and Digital Phone Co (DPC) with the Central Administrative Court, asking them to pay a total of 1.7 billion baht for retaining their customers after the expiry of their mobile concessions.

The regulator is asking that True Move and DPC pay 1.07 billion and 627 million baht, respectively, for revenue earned from retaining their customers still using second-generation (2G) mobile networks on the 1800-megahertz spectrum under concession agreements that expired in September 2013.

NBTC secretary-general Takorn Tantasith said the rates were based on revenue after operating costs earned from the retention of customers from September 2013 to July 2014.

In September 2015, the NBTC sent an administrative order to True Move and DPC, a unit of Advanced Info Service Plc (AIS), asking them to pay within 30 days.

But both companies contested the sums, arguing that their operating costs were much higher than what the NBTC had calculated.

The NBTC's telecom committee concluded that True Move earned revenue of 3.63 billion baht, while its expenses were 2.56 billion. DPC reportedly earned 1.15 billion with expenses of 525 million.

"We decided to file a lawsuit with the court yesterday seeking money from the two companies as the statute of limitations is approaching," he said.

Mr Takorn said the case is administrative in nature, entailing a one-year limit for prosecution.

"We needed to file the suit before Monday," he said.

The NBTC is negotiating with True Move and DPC to settle on the payment amount this week. But Mr Takorn admitted it would be difficult to reach a consensus on the matter.

Mr Takorn said if True Move and DPC disagreed with the NBTC's position, they could file a petition against the regulator.

Suthichai Cheunchoosil, senior vice-president for business relations and development at AIS, said the company is ready to give information in court when the first hearing takes place.

A high-ranking source at True Corporation said the company disagreed with the NBTC, arguing True Move had faced accumulated losses of 6 billion baht due to the regulations on customer retention.