http://www.thehindu.com/news/international/putin-postpones-visit-to-france-amid-diplomatic-tensions/article9208206.ece
160
16
French President Francois Hollande said that Putin had put off his visit set for next week after he had said he was only interested in talks about Syria.

Russian President Vladimir Putin on Tuesday cancelled a visit to France in a furious row over Moscow’s role in the Syrian conflict.

The announcement from the Kremlin came a day after French President Francois Hollande said Syrian forces had committed a “war crime” in the battered city of Aleppo with the support of Russian air strikes. Mr. Putin had been due in Paris on October 19 to inaugurate a new Russian Orthodox church near the Eiffel Tower, but Mr. Hollande had insisted his Russian counterpart also took part in talks with him about Syria.

Aerial bombing

Russia has been waging an aerial bombing campaign in Syria more than a year in support of President Bashar al-Assad’s forces, part of a multi-front war that has claimed some 300,000 lives and seen Moscow further estranged from the West. The French President had admitted he was agonising over whether to meet Mr. Putin, but the Kremlin on Tuesday called off the visit.

Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Mr. Putin was “ready to visit when it is comfortable for President Hollande”, adding that Moscow would “wait for when that comfortable time comes”.

Mr. Hollande responded that he was prepared to meet Mr. Putin “at any time... to further peace”. Speaking in Strasbourg, Mr. Hollande said France and Russia had had a “major disagreement” over Syria.

“It is necessary to have dialogue with Russia but it must be firm and frank,” Mr. Hollande told the parliamentary assembly of the Council of Europe rights body.

On Saturday, Russia blocked a draft French UN resolution calling for an end to the barrage of air strikes on the rebel-held east of Aleppo that have escalated in the last month, leaving hundreds of people dead, including dozens of children. It was the fifth time that Russia used its veto to block UN action to end the five-year war in Syria. In the aftermath of that decision, Mr. Hollande described the bombing of Aleppo as a “war crime”.

He said in a TV interview on Monday: “Those who commit these acts will have to pay for their involvement, including at the International Criminal Court.”

.

RELATED NEWS Airstrikes in Syria's Aleppo and shelling in south kill 20