http://classic.iol.co.za/capetimes/probe-after-boycotting-of-pupil-evaluations-1.2078771
160
16
Education MEC Debbie Schafer

THE provincial Education Department has launched an investigation after its annual systemic evaluations were boycotted at several schools yesterday.

The Congress of South African Students (Cosas) said it had mobilised pupils from various schools in Khayelitsha to join in boycotting the tests, which are only written in the Western Cape.

The South African National Democratic Teachers Union (Sadtu) has lauded the move, saying pupils were overtested and the provincial curriculum does not provide for enough teaching time.

In the months leading up to the tests, Sadtu provincial chairperson Jonavon Rustin said the WCED spent about R36 million a year on it, and at a meeting with provincial officials union members were told the department was locked into a contract with service providers for the next two-and-a-half years.

Education MEC Debbie Schäfer’s spokesperson, Jessica Shelver, said the systemic testing started off well yesterday, but confirmed some schools did not write.

“The circumstances around this are being investigated and disciplinary action will be instituted.”

Sadtu deputy provincial secretary Sibongile Kwazi said Cosas members and parents believe the tests are a “waste of time”.

“We are aware of the disruptions that took place. Our position is that the systemic tests should have never taken place. We asked our members to join this call to boycott the tests. Learners do not understand why they have to write before they close schools for September and when schools open in October,” Kwazi said.

Cosas provincial chair Michael Mayalo said the congress has always been at the forefront of championing the best interest of pupils.

“We continue to be the light of the poor. We will not allow any school in the Western Cape to write that money- making scheme. We will collect all those papers and we will take them back to the offices of the Education MEC. She can rather use those papers as her toilet paper.”

Mayalo said the money should rather be invested to build computer labs at schools, or directed towards proper feeding schemes and free school uniforms for the poor.