https://www.middleeastmonitor.com/20161028-former-idf-soldiers-talk-at-london-university-sparks-controversy/
160
16
A protest broke out in University College of London (UCL) yesterday evening after Israeli Education Director for lobby group StandWithUs, Hen Mazzig, arrived to deliver a talk.

During the protest, Mazzig was called out for being a “war criminal” and for his support of Israeli settlements in the West Bank which have rendered thousands of Palestinians homeless. The lobby group he works with is known for denying that settlements are even a problem and have said in a statement that rather than settlements being an obstacle to peace, the Palestinian leadership in both the West Bank and Gaza Strip deter any peaceful settlement to the Palestine-Israel conflict.

Mazzig has also served five years in the IDF and was a lieutenant in the Coordination of Government Activities in the Territories (COGAT) unit, which is the part of the Israeli military that implements the Israeli government’s policy in the occupied Palestinian territories.

After the protests, which the police intercepted, many took to social media to express their discontent and to debate the decision of Mazzig being allowed to speak at UCL. Many were angered by his Tweet: “I had to be rushed out of the event at @UCL with security. The campus was the war zone and the streets are the safe place. I’m out. My god.”

War zone is what you have enforced upon Palestinian territory, we do not welcome assassins on our campuses. Good riddance. #UCL #Palestine https://t.co/49844glo10 — Fatime Al-Badri (@falbadri1995) October 27, 2016

In a statement, the UCLU Friends for Palestine Society defended its right to protest. The group said Mazzig supports settlements which are “grave violations of international law, and it is reasonable for students to protest an event at which these crimes are whitewashed and defended.”

They also confirmed that “the UCL security and police confirmed that the protest ended safely.” No arrests were made by police.

No. The protest at ucl against the Israeli speaker was NOT anti semitism — elo (@eloiserosalie) October 27, 2016