http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3831853/Pictured-Mother-71-thrown-apartment-window-death-41-year-old-son.html
160
16
An elderly mother who police say was pushed out of a window to her death by her own son in the early hours of Monday morning has been pictured by authorities.

Fernando Vargas, 41, was arrested after he allegedly threw his 71-year-old mother Carlota Vargas out of a second floor apartment window in Van Nuys, Los Angeles, ABC 7 reports.

Police responded to a report of an assault in the 7400 block of Hazeltine Avenue at 2.50am, according to the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD).

Scroll down for video

Elderly mother, Carlota Vargas (pictured), 71, was pushed out of a window to her death by her own son in the early hours of Monday morning, police said

Fernando Vargas (pictured), 41, was arrested after he allegedly threw his 71-year-old mother Carlota Vargas out of a second floor apartment window in Van Nuys, Los Angeles

Witnesses said Fernando Vargas (pictured) then jumped out of the window and was seen stomping on her head

Witnesses said the son then jumped out of the window and was seen stomping on her head, Los Angeles Police Department Officer Norma Eisenman told KTLA.

Nancy Ochoa, who witnessed the incident said it 'was horrible' and that the son said 'she was going to die anyway and it didn't matter', if he stomped on her.

The woman was transported to Providence Holy Cross Medical Center, where she was pronounced dead.

Investigators said the attack was sparked by a domestic dispute, but further details were not immediately available, according to the local station.

Vargas, who suffered a leg injury, was booked into custody on suspicion of murder, CBS Los Angeles reports.

Police said Vargas was also being tested for drugs.

Nancy Ochoa, who witnessed the incident said it 'was horrible' and that the son said 'she was going to die anyway and it didn't matter', if he stomped on her. Carlota Vargas is pictured holding a birthday cake

Family friend, Erika Lehmann said that she was 'surprised' that the incident even happened. 'She loved her son and her son loved her,' Lehmann said. Carlota Vargas (left) was described as someone everybody loved

'It's pretty strange, it's pretty heinous, especially when you're talking about elderly victims, and compounded with the fact that it looks like the victim's son is the suspect in this case,' LAPD Mark O'Donnell told KTLA.

Family friend, Erika Lehmann told the station that she was 'surprised' that the incident even happened.

'She loved her son and her son loved her.'

Lehmann described Carlota Vargas as 'outgoing' and honest. She said everyone loved her.

Carlota Vargas was transported to Providence Holy Cross Medical Center, where she was pronounced dead. Police said Carlota Vargas was pushed out of the second story apartment window in the 7400 block of Hazeltine Avenue in Los Angeles