http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3832182/When-hit-50-thought-m-never-going-kissed-Look-Size-22-divorcee-spends-5-000-turning-sexy-cougar-dates-younger-men.html
160
16
A divorcee splashed out more than £5,000 to transform herself from a size 22 to a 'sexy cougar'.

Carole Pridmore, from Chingford, Essex, shed six stone after her marriage broke down three years ago and then paid thousands for a boob job to complete her look.

Now, after getting a new haircut and a new size 10 wardrobe, she exclusively dates younger men who she meets on a website called the Toyboy Warehouse.

Carole Pridmore splashed out £5,000 to transform herself from a size 22 to a 'sexy cougar'

The divorcee shed six stone after her marriage broke down three years ago and then paid for a boob job to complete her look. She is pictured before splitting from her husband back in 2013

Ms Pridmore, 55, was a size 22 when she claims she found out her husband of 31 years was having an affair - and says he was signed up to nine different dating sites.

The mother-of-three began hitting the gym with her daughters after finding herself newly-single and before long the weight was coming off.

Three years on, Ms Pridmore, a secretary, is happier than ever.

She said: 'My confidence was rock bottom. When I turned 50 I just thought "this is it, I’m never going to be kissed again" - and look at me now.'

Ms Pridmore decided she’d had enough when her daughter is said to have found out her father was having an affair in February 2013.

It was at this point Ms Pridmore claims she threw him out and filed for a divorce.

She was then inspired to get fit after noticing she’d shed a stone through stress alone, and began getting compliments.

At her heaviest, Ms Pridmore weighed 15 stone - and is now 9st 4lb.

She said: 'I’d drive to work then sit in an office all day, I didn’t do anything.

Ms Pridmore (left today), 55, was a size 22 (right) when she claims she found out her husband of 31 years was having an affair - and says he was signed up to nine different dating sites

'I’m not one for eating cakes but I love cheese and pinot grigio.

'When I was younger I was really fat. At my biggest, when I was married, I was a size 22 and weighed 15 stone - I’m only 5”6’!'

But after the split, Ms Pridmore decided to join her two daughters at the gym and she now goes five times a week.

However, losing weight wasn’t the only thing she wanted, adding: 'I wanted to start doing things for me.

'I’ve breast fed three children.

'At my biggest my boobs were a size 38G, then they went down to a 34B when I lost all my weight.

'They were really saggy, and as I was starting to date these toyboys I knew I needed to do something about it, so I spent £5,000 having them lifted in July 2014.'

Ms Pridmore also ditched her glasses in favour of contact lenses and had a complete wardrobe overhaul.

Ms Pridmore ditched her glasses in favour of contact lenses and had a wardrobe overhaul

After signing up for the cougar dating site, she’s been wined and dined by 15 different men after being inundated with messages.

She said: 'Dating is brilliant, I’ve been out with so many young, successful men.

'They’ve got more energy and they’re more interesting than men my age.

'I’ve dated about 15 different guys, but I didn’t sleep with all of them!

'Of course some of them are only after the Mrs Robinson fantasy, but it’s good for my ego.

'The best date I’ve been on, the guy spent £350 in a top London restaurant wining and dining me.

'It’s nice to be taken out - all I’d get off my ex is fish and chips.

'At first I was like a kid in a sweet shop on this website, I was getting so many messages and it was really exciting.

'I’ve calmed down now though and I’ve been dating a 39-year-old who I met on there for a while.'