http://www.news.com.au/national/tasmania/town-of-meander-split-as-drug-rehabilitation-centre-gets-goahead/news-story/4abc39a08e11198b2fa460e1561c8c91
161
16
HELEN KEMPTON Mercury

THE organisation behind a drug rehabilitation centre in Meander and residents who back the proposal hope the official signing of a lease to take over the building will ease tensions in the town.

Bad feelings between those for and against the centre’s operation peaked last month when supporters erected prominent signs to demonstrate their backing for a project they say will keep the former Meander Primary School building and the centre of town alive.

Teen Challenge, a Christian faith-based organisation, received approval from the Meander Valley Council to operate a long-term rehabilitation centre for women and their children in June — and yesterday signed a lease for the building.

Teen Challenge Tasmania executive director Tanya Cavanagh said she was “thrilled to finally have the keys” so staff and volunteers could start cleaning up the site in readiness for the proposed fitout of buildings.

The organisation expects the planned Home of Hope centre will be able to take in its first clients within six to 12 months.

“We are keen to begin the next phase towards helping women, and women with children, break free from the chains of addiction and other life-controlling issues,” Ms Cavanagh said.

Meander farmer Wayne Johnston — who lives 500m from the school — said he hoped the community would now get behind the centre.

“We put signs up to show our support, not to antagonise anyone,” Mr Johnston said.

“We were sick of being told the majority of people in Meander were against it when that is not the case.

“Let’s hope things calm down now there will be activity at the site.”

Ms Cavanagh said Teen Challenge had become frustrated at language used in the argument against the establishment of the centre.

She said the centre would not operate as a refuge for women fleeing violence, but instead as a long-term residential rehabilitation facility.

MORE: TOWN DIVIDES OVER POTENTIAL NEW ROLE FOR FORMER SCHOOL SITE

A Meander Area Residents and Ratepayers Association petition bearing 100 signatures was handed to the council in June after it voted 5:4 to lease the school site to Teen Challenge.

A motion to rescind that decision was defeated at the next month’s council meeting.

MARRA president Bodhi McSweeney said the erection of the 20 or so signs had further fractured the community.

Mrs McSweeney said the centre had the potential to negatively impact on the lives of residents and the women who were admitted to it.

MARRA already has expressed fears that estranged and potentially abusive partners and drug dealers could follow the centre’s clients to the small farming town.

“Teen Challenge made no effort to consult the majority of people who live here,” she said.

“The rest of the community was kept in the dark about these discussions. We are now working on a plan of what we can do to stop this development,” she said.

The group had wanted the council to meet with them before the lease was signed.