https://www.yahoo.com/news/marjorie-kaplan-departs-discovery-networks-013237790.html
160
16
EXCLUSIVE: Marjorie Kaplan is leaving Discovery Communications after two decades. I hear the announcement was made today internally by JB Perrette, President of Discovery Networks International. Discovery could not be reached for comment.

Kaplan moved to London a year ago when she was named President of Content for DNI. As part of a new emphasis on local production and local content, the company is moving away from a centralized structure, with the DNI Content Group and Kaplan’s position being phased out. Kaplan’s team will be consolidated into DNI’s UK unit, with all of her direct reports now reporting to Susanna Dinnage, General Manager, Discovery Networks UK/Ireland, with the exception of Bob Scanlon, EVP and GM of Velocity and Automotive Content, who will report into a TBA US-based executive. In her newly role as President & Managing Director, Dinnage will report to Perrette will add add responsibilities of working with executives in the US and around the world on creating global franchises.

Kaplan will stay on board through the end of the year to help with the transition.

Before moving to London, Kaplan served as Group President for TLC, Animal Planet & Velocity. She originally joined Discovery Communications to launch Discovery Kids Channel. She then revamped Animal Planet with shows like Whale Wars, River Monsters and Tanked. At TLC, she launched My Big Fat Fabulous Life and I Am Jazz. She also served as president of Velocity.

Also as part of the restructuring at DNI, the company is disbanding its Northern Europe division.

Dominic Coles, who was CFO/COO of Northern Europe and managing the Nordic markets, is being given a new role as EVP, Strategic Projects, continuing to report to Doug Baker, and working on special projects.

Mike Lang will expand his current responsibilities to lead the new Nordic region as President, International Development, Digital & Discovery Nordics.

Related stories

Idris Elba To Train As Pro Kickboxer For Discovery's 'Fighter' Limited Series

Discovery Networks International President Re-Ups Through 2019

Discovery Scales 'Everest Rescue' Series; Takes Shark Week Global