http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3832311/Samsung-asks-Note-7-customers-return-phones-Royal-Mail-bans-sent-post-case-explode.html
160
16
Samsung Galaxy Note 7 customers in the UK are advised to power off the faulty device immediately and return it to its place of purchase, but there's one problem - Royal Mail won't accept posting of the smartphones.

Samsung has stopped making and selling the device after finding that even the supposedly safer replacements it was providing for recalled Note 7 phones were catching fire.

The company are offering a refund or the chance to exchange for a different Samsung model. However, because the Note 7 contains a lithium battery, Royal Mail and Parcelforce won't allow the faulty product to be transported in the post.

Samsung scrapped its flagship Galaxy Note 7 smartphone on Tuesday less than two months after its launch after hundreds of reports of it setting fire

One early pre-order customer Michael Rock, from Wakefield, got his Note 7 at the end of August but was unable to send it back via Royal Mail

The smartphone was due to relaunch in the UK, costing £740, at the end of October after sales were delayed amid concerns that the mobiles were at risk of overheating or catching fire.

The company said 45,000 Note 7s had been sold in Europe through the pre-order campaign - the majority in the UK - and more than 75 per cent had since been replaced with either a Note 7 or another Samsung handset.

One early pre-order customer Michael Rock, from Wakefield, got his Note 7 at the end of August, but when the global recall began in September and he tried to send it back for a replacement Royal Mail reportedly refused it.

'Royal Mail won't let me send the Note 7. What do I do!! Samsung won't refund until they get it back,' the father-of-two wrote on Twitter.

Samsung has axed the Galaxy Note 7, stopping production of the smartphone, pictured

A Royal Mail spokesperson said: 'In light of recent incidents and concerns raised by Samsung about its Galaxy Note 7, Royal Mail and ParcelForce are unable to accept the posting of earlier versions of Samsung's Galaxy Note 7 phones.

'For several years, there have been Government restrictions in place around the transport of lithium batteries, which are also present in the Galaxy Note 7.

'All customers are asked to detail what is in each package so that we can make sure that we are not carrying items that are hazardous. Faulty lithium batteries are prohibited in the mail by transport regulations to all destinations'.

Customers should contact the company where they purchased their Note 7 - whether it's Carphone Warehouse, EE, Vodafone, Three, 02 or Samsung - to arrange a full refund or to swap it for another model.

A Note 7 set fire on a Southwest Airlines plane on Wednesday in the U.S.

In America, a Jeep burst into flames after a Samsung Galaxy Note 7 set alight when it was put on charge inside the vehicle

Andy Brian, partner and retail expert at law firm Gordons, said: 'Samsung have taken swift action and customers have been advised to contact the provider or operator they purchased the device from to organise a loan device until they are able to exchange the Galaxy Note 7.

'Customers are also being offered the opportunity to exchange for a Galaxy S7 or a Galaxy S7 Edge.'

'If customers prefer to obtain a refund, they have the right to do so under the Consumer Rights Act.

'Retailers are required to offer a full refund if a product is shown to be faulty within 30 days of purchase, and for up to six months if a repair or suitable replacement is not available during this period, and Samsung have acted quickly to make customers aware that this is an option.'

A Samsung spokesperson told MailOnline: 'Customer safety is our absolute priority. We are engaging and cooperating with all relevant regulatory bodies, institutions and organisations to ensure that they are aware of the latest information regarding the Note7.

'We are working closely with our retail partners to make it as easy and convenient as possible for customers to return their device, offering a variety of delivery service options.

'There are fewer than 50,000 Note7 devices active in Europe – but as safety is our top priority, we are asking all carrier and retail partners globally to stop sales and exchanges of the Galaxy Note7 while we investigate the recently reported cases involving the Galaxy Note7.'

In a further statement on Tuesday evening, Samsung UK confirmed that customers can get a refund for their Note 7s: 'We are encouraging customers to contact their operator or retailer to discuss their options – which includes exchanging for an alternative device or a refund. We are encouraging all customers to power down the device and return it as soon as possible.'