http://www.leadership.ng/news/547632/why-we-suspended-4-months-old-strike-action-bayelsa-varsity-lecturers
163
16
Lecturers of the Bayelsa owned Niger Delta University, Ammasoma in Southern Ijaw Local Council area of the State yesterday explained reasons for the decision to call off the Four months old strike action.

According to the Lecturers, under the aegis of the Academic Staff Union of Universities, (ASUU) ,said strike action was called off after the the payment of two out of the six months’ salary arrears owed them, the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), with the state government and goodwill towards the state.

The Zonal Coordinator of ASUU, Port Harcourt Zone, Professor Beke Sese and NDU ASUU branch chairman, Dr Stanley Ogoun while speaking with newsmen yesterday in Yenagoa, though the strike action has been called off, they might resume the strike action if the state government fails to meet up its own part of the agreement.

According to ASUU, the lecturers were compelled to suspend the action out of goodwill and in the interest of the public

Dr Ogoun,who was flanked at the news conference by the ASUU branch chairmen of University of Port Harcourt, UNIPORT, Dr Austen Sado, Federal University Otuoke, Dr Joseph, Omoro and Dr Suobere Puyate of Rivers State University of Science and Technology, RSUST, said: “As per whether we are satisfied with the two months salaries that has been paid, we want to say No but when you go into a negotiation the essence is not to stick to your guns and not be willing to shift ground when your mediators intervening.

“The labour struggle is one that you do not fight it as a one off thing. Our relationship with our employers is not a one off contract. We will resume the strike action if the state government fails to pay the remaining months we will simply resume the strike action that we have suspended. It is as a result of goodwill that we are compelled to shift ground and enter into negotiation with the state government for the interest of the peace and the common good of Nigeria.”

“We want to make it clear that an industrial action is to compel government or employers to be responsive, and come to the negotiation table and if government is responsive no employee would embark on industrial action.”

On the Treasury Single Account, TSA, adopted by the Federal Government, ASUU said the policy is incompatible and undermines the autonomy of universities and makes it “extremely difficult for universities to discharge their core responsibilities,” and called on the Federal Government to exempt the universities from the policy.

ASUU said though it has over the years consistently engaged the various government through dialogue and avoidable strike actions to compel government to arrest the rots in the society and the university, its disheartening and depressing that successive administrations has fail adequately address the issues.

It warned that unless immediate concerted efforts are geared towards redirecting the course of the nation to the path of peace, prosperity and sustainable development especially in the education sector, Nigeria may soon witness another avoidable crisis.

ASUU highlighted some of government failures and insensitivity to the state of emergency in the education sector to include government breach of the 2009 agreements and the several memoranda of signed with the union.

Professor Sese said, “As a result of government insensitivity and willful violation of agreements and MOU, our union has taken several steps, including embarking on avoidable strikes in 2012 and 2013, to get government to wake up to its responsibilities. Regrettably to date, several aspects of the agreement and issues are yet to be implemented.

“Some of the key issues bother on funding while others are issues of University autonomy. They includes the following; Earned Academic Allowances (EAA), funding of universities for revitalization, staff salaries, pension, TSA and university autonomy, arbitrary removal and appointment of Vice-Chancellors in Federal universities, amendment of JAMB, NUC and national minimum and establishment institution acts, budgetary allocation to education, renegotiation of 2009 agreement and audience with the President.”

ASUU, particularly condemned the Treasury Single Account (TSA) adopted by the Federal Government, sayings it undermines the autonomy of universities and making it extremely difficult for universities to discharge their core responsibilities of teaching, research and community services as well as international academic networking as results of lack of fund.

The union therefore called on the federal government to exempt the universities from the TSA implementation on account of the peculiarities of the institutions.

It also urges the civil society organization, market patriotic Nigerian, the upper and lower chambers of the federal house, student’s union bodies and other well-meaning Nigerians to intervene in order to avert avoidable crisis.