http://www.dailymail.co.uk/debate/article-3833496/DAILY-MAIL-COMMENT-Whingeing-Contemptuous-Unpatriotic-Damn-Bremoaners-plot-subvert-British-people.html
160
16
George Osborne's bitterness at being removed from office is one of the more unedifying spectacles in politics

Waking up yesterday, it was as if Britain had been transported back to those febrile, fractious days in May and June, when the EU referendum campaign was being so ferociously contested.

In a document released by the Treasury, there was a hysterical — and entirely bogus — claim that the country will be up to £66 billion a year poorer if the UK fully breaks free of the shackles imposed by Brussels.

It was based on a six-month-old study commissioned by — you guessed it — George Osborne, the architect of the utterly discredited Project Fear and a man whose bitterness at being removed from office is one of the more unedifying spectacles in politics.

Meanwhile, Remain-supporting MPs were being given copious airtime by the BBC to make unsubstantiated claims of impending doom for the UK outside of the single market.

And, to top it all, the pro-Brussels CBI business group was also in full cry, claiming that Britain is heading for a ‘cliff edge’ and that big employers will not possibly be able to cope without unskilled mass immigration from the EU — an unpatriotic, defeatist position which will enrage people in communities whose schools, health services and housing cannot cope with the existing number of migrants.

Perhaps the most eloquent response to the pro-EU position of the CBI — which has long been notorious for its appeasing instincts — was the announcement that JCB, one of Britain’s most important industrial groups, was quitting the confederation in protest.

To all these embittered Remainers, the Mail has a simple message: You lost. Stop the anti-democratic games and respect the emphatic verdict of the British people.

From the moment the referendum result became clear, Remain have been sore losers: incredulous that the British people could be so disrespectful as to reject their wisdom, and increasingly furious that the economy — far from collapsing, as predicted by Mr Osborne — is flourishing.

Quite why the BBC devotes so much airtime to the embittered pro-EU ramblings of the wet-behind-the-ears ex-Tory ministers Nicky Morgan (left) and Anna Soubry (right), only it knows

So it was that they resorted to desperate subterfuge.

The people, they argued, were conned by false claims from the Leave campaign — despite the fact that this was one of the most deeply debated issues in post-war Britain, and that the Leave camp had nothing on the breathtaking mendacity of Remain.

And second, they invented — in the newspeak style of Orwell — some new phrases. The British people, they decided, had not voted for ‘hard Brexit’ — even though nobody had even heard of the expression until after the referendum. They wanted a ‘soft Brexit’ — leaving Europe but staying within the single market.

It is not difficult to discern just why the Remainers are behaving in such a petulant and unacceptable way. By putting a date on the triggering of Article 50 — the formal two-year process for leaving the EU — Theresa May last week crushed their lingering hopes that Brexit was a bad dream that might never happen.

At the same time, they were cut deep by her devastating — and entirely accurate — critique of a metropolitan elite that sneers at the public’s concerns about mass immigration and considers it ‘bewildering’ that 17.4 million people voted to leave the EU.

Thus, a well-heeled group of London ‘intellectuals’ which is used to having everything its own way — and which has ignored the ordinary voter for decades — is out for revenge on Mrs May and to re-assert its own authority.

The BBC — which is now bitterly regretting its admirable impartiality during the referendum and has returned to type — is leading the Remain charge.

Quite why it devotes so much airtime to the embittered pro-EU ramblings of the wet-behind-the-ears ex-Tory ministers Nicky Morgan and Anna Soubry, only it knows. For the Mail’s part, we know both women were unceremoniously sacked by Mrs May in July and have axes to grind.

Former Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg is among the most egregious Remainers of all

The most egregious Remainers of all, however, are Ed Miliband, Nick Clegg and friends — who have spent recent days demanding that Parliament must have the final vote on the terms of the UK’s departure from the EU. Which, of course, is code for saying that we-know-best MPs — not the public who pay their salaries and expenses — should decide the country’s destiny.

The entirely fatuous argument deployed by Liberal Democrat Mr Clegg — whose vanity literally destroyed his party, reducing it from 57 seats in 2010 to just eight last year — and Labour’s Mr Miliband is that the public did not vote to quit the single market on June 23: they voted only to leave the EU.

In fact, what the public voted for was simple: to regain control of our borders in order to end mass immigration; reclaim control of our laws; and stop sending billions of pounds to Brussels.

None of this is possible inside the single market — which requires the free movement of workers, full adherence to the diktats of the European Court of Justice and a vast annual membership fee.

Of course, Mr Clegg and the trades-union puppet Mr Miliband — one of the most unelectable politicians ever to hold high office — know this only too well. They just pretend otherwise.

But their argument that it is ‘anti-democratic’ for MPs not to have another vote on the Brexit process is perhaps the most insulting of all.

First, the original referendum bill — passed by a majority of six to one by MPs — made no mention of Parliament having to hold a second vote to approve or implement the June 23 result.

And second, who are they to lecture anybody on democracy? Miliband and Clegg both fought tooth and nail to deny the public a referendum vote in the first place.

Not only that, they are now trying to stick up two fingers to their own constituents by seeking to allow Parliament to block the referendum verdict.

Voters in Mr Miliband's Doncaster constituency voted 69 per cent in favour of Brexit

Let it never be forgotten that voters in Mr Miliband’s Doncaster constituency voted 69 per cent in favour of Brexit, one of the highest percentages in the country, while — much to his horror — Mr Clegg’s own city of Sheffield was also in favour of quitting the Brussels club.

The fact is, the mandate for Britain to leave the EU is the biggest handed to any government in history on a turnout of more than 70 per cent.

The verdict was unanswerable. It is time for the Remainers to stop reheating the arguments of the referendum, consign Mr Osborne’s risible Project Fear to history and get on with making a success of Brexit.

They are talking Britain down at every opportunity — most recently by delighting in the fall in the pound, which, as any economist knows, was over-valued in the first place.

In reality, devaluation is good for Britain and our exporters in particular. The sharp fall in the pound that followed the decision in 1992 to leave the Exchange Rate Mechanism, the precursor to the euro, helped to usher in one of the longest periods of growth on record.

Worse than being sore losers, the Remainers are also being deeply unpatriotic. Yes, there are profound challenges ahead, but there are also going to be wonderful new opportunities for our great entrepreneurs, scientists and engineers once we are finally free of the sclerotic, bureaucratic, one-size-fits-all EU.

Crucially, however, the June 23 vote was — as Mrs May so astutely observed in last week’s powerful party conference speech — about more than just leaving the EU.

It was about a deep and profound sense that the public’s concerns on everything, from immigration and rip-off energy bills to big business not paying its taxes, have been ignored for too long.

Mrs May’s verdict was stark. She said: ‘If we don’t respond — if we don’t take this opportunity to deliver the change people want — resentments will grow. Divisions will become entrenched. And that would be a disaster for Britain.’

The Mail entirely shares this view. Is it really too much to hope that the penny might now finally drop with the metropolitan elite, who for decades have ignored the wishes of their fellow countrymen?