http://www.irishsun.com/index.php/sid/248448515
160
16
Putin, Erdogan sign pipeline deal, boost trade ties, hold talks on Syria

Irish Sun Tuesday 11th October, 2016

• Agreement on long-delayed TurkStream natural gas project signed

• Syria crisis discussed, although no significant breakthrough made

• Discussions on energy deals, trade and tourism ties, defence issues also held

ISTANBUL, Turkey – Russian President Vladimir Putin and Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan witnessed the signing of an agreement for the construction of a major gas pipeline under the Black Sea.

The two presidents also held talks in Istanbul on a number of other issues, including the crisis in Syria.

The pipeline will allow Russian natural gas to be delivered directly to Turkey via the Russian Black Sea coast and on to Greece.

The project, worth an estimated 11.4 billion euros ($12.7 billion), was announced in December 2014 during Putin’s visit to Turkey as an alternative to the canceled South Stream route through Bulgaria.

However, after Turkey shot down a Russian plane near the Syrian border in November 2015, the project was put on hold. It was revived only after Turkey apologised for the incident this summer.

Now, a year later, the two countries are seeking to normalise ties.

"Today has been a full day with President Putin of discussing Russia-Turkish relations... I have full confidence that the normalisation of Turkish-Russian ties will continue at a fast pace," Erdogan said at a joint news conference after the meeting concluded.

Putin said Moscow had decided to lift a ban on some food products from Turkey following the escalation in tensions last year, adding that both leaders had agreed to work toward the full-scale normalisation of bilateral ties.

The long-delayed TurkStream natural gas project is a dual pipeline project consisting of one link serving the Turkish market and another one possibly for the southern European market. The timing is critical with Moscow struggling with sanctions following its incursion into Ukraine. The pipeline could be completed as early as 2019, according to reports.

Putin said after holding talks with Erdogan that a mechanism for providing a discount on gas prices had been agreed upon.

Gazprom PJSC, the world’s biggest gas producer, has been ordered to work out precise numbers for a gas discount for Turkey, Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak told reporters.

The two parties also held discussions on energy deals, trade and tourism ties, and defence-related issues. And while the two presidents brought up the Syria issue, over which they are on opposing sides, no significant breakthrough was made, although both leaders said were willing to work together to end the violence.

Turkey is allied with the United States and key Arab nations in supporting so-called moderate rebels to establish a political transition in Syria without President Bashar al-Assad playing a role there.

Moscow, however, backs the Syrian leader and is providing support to him in his fight against the rebels.

Erdogan has previously referred to Assad as “a more advanced terrorist than the Islamic State.”

This is the third meeting between both the presidents since June this year and both countries seem intent on restoring diplomatic relations.