http://indianexpress.com/article/india/india-news-india/punjab-polls-dussehra-in-amritsar-a-show-of-strength-for-politicians-3076308/
161
16
Posters installed by Anil Joshi in Amritsar. (Source: Express Photo) Posters installed by Anil Joshi in Amritsar. (Source: Express Photo)

Politicians in Amritsar have turned Raavan Dahan at Dussehra into a platform to flex their muscles in election year. Cabinet minister Anil Joshi has put up posters welcoming Union finance minister Arun Jaitley to Dussehra function organised by him in his assembly constituency, Amritsar North.

Besides, former SAD MLA Inderbir Singh Bolaria, who is yet to join Congress officially, too, has planned to host Punjab Congress president Capt Amarinder Singh for Dussehra function in his constituency, Amritsar south, from where he is expecting a ticket.

Joshi’s function is minus district and state BJP leadership. Pictures of both — Punjab BJP chief Vijay Sampla and Amritsar BJP chief Rajesh Kumar Honey — are missing from his posters.

The posters are published by the Dussehra Committee Amritsar North that has been founded by Joshi.

“This is a private function organised by Joshi every year,” said Honey. The state BJP said the party had no role in this. “It is a private function organised by our minister,” said state BJP secretary Vineet Joshi.

“Dussehra function is Joshi’s show of strength. This is to exhibit his proximity with central leadership. Last year, he had invited cabinet minister Raj Vardhan Singh Rathor,” said an Amritsar BJP leader.

Along with Jaitley, Punjab affairs in-charge Prabhat Jha is also featured on the posters.

Till the filing of this report, it was not confirmed if Jaitley or Jha would attend the function.

“Jaitley is in Canada and would reach New Delhi Monday night. He has assured to attend if everything went according to schedule. But his arrival is not confirmed yet,” said a confidante of Joshi.

Likewise, Jha is also unlikely to make it to the function as he is reportedly infected with chikungunya.

Meanwhile, in Congress camp, all ticket aspirants have installed posters to welcome Captain.

The poster installed by Bolaria has, however, raised eyebrows. The former Amritsar South assembly MLA was suspended by the SAD due to his alleged anti-party activities.

It is being said that Amarinder will first attend a press conference where he will induct Bolaria into Congress and then visit the Dussehra function organised by the former SAD MLA.