https://article.wn.com/view/2016/10/11/Putin_postpones_visit_to_France_amid_diplomatic_tensions_n/
160
16
Russian President Vladimir Putin has postponed a meeting over Syria with French leader Francois Hollande that was planned next week in Paris amid growing diplomatic tensions between the two countries ...

(CNN)Vladimir Putin is back -- and stealing Barack Obama's thunder. The Russian president showed up at the United Nations on Monday for the first time in a decade,...

Washington (CNN)If Donald Trump looked into Vladimir Putin's eyes, what would he see? For nearly every other Republican politician -- from the party's past two presidential...

(Source: The President of Russia ) Television channel Public Television of Russia (OTR) and its site (http://www.otr-online.ru/online/) provided live sign language...

(Source: The President of Russia ) CHARLIE ROSE: I want to thank you for inviting us to your home on what I would have described as a lovely Russian Sunday afternoon. You...

September 29, 2015, 06:00 2015-09-29 Team of the Official Website of the President of Russia ...

(Source: The President of Russia ) November 24, 2014, 08:00 Vladimir Putin answered questions from Andrei Vandenko, a journalist of the Russian News Agency TASS. The...

Report: Washington State Mother 'Injected Her 3 Kids' With Heroin To Help Them Sleep

If Clinton wins, more in GOP say no to 9 on Supreme Court

Hillary Clinton and the FBI: acrimony could leave US more divided than ever

Aviator Amelia Earhart May Have Spent Last Days As A Castaway On An Island

Related News

Vladimir Putin's week of muscle-flexing (CNN)When Vladimir Putin makes a move, the world sits up and takes notice. And this week, he's been particularly busy, making decisions on internal and international matters that have ramifications far beyond Russia's borders. Here's a look back at the Russian President's busy week -- and why the moves matter. SUNDAY: Put NGOs on notice JUST WATCHED Putin's plans for a new... CNN





Vladimir Putin’s interview with Radio Europe 1 and TF1 TV channel (The President of Russia) (Source: The President of Russia ) June 4, 2014, 22:20 In the run-up to his visit to France, Vladimir Putin gave an interview to Radio Europe 1 news programme author and frontman Jean-Pierre Elkabbach and anchor of the evening news on TF1 TV channel Gilles Bouleau. The interview was recorded on June 3 in Sochi. QUESTION (via interpreter): Good afternoon Mr President. Good... noodls





Vladimir Putin's Q&A session: A rare chance to question the President (CNN)In Russia's tightly-managed democracy, where being an opposition politician can seriously damage your health, chances to question the country's leader are rare. President Vladimir Putin cuts an isolated figure, closely guarded behind the walls of the Kremlin, traveling to-and-fro by helicopter or high-speed motorcade. His almost daily appearances on state television often... CNN





Biden blasts Putin, says U.S. debating sending weapons to Ukraine Washington (CNN)With tensions flaring between Russia and the West, Vice President Joe Biden blasted Russian President Vladimir Putin Wednesday and said that the White House is still mulling sending arms and equipment to besieged Ukrainian troops. Biden criticized Putin for what he called "brutal aggression" in Ukraine, and said the Russian president was also responsible for... CNN



