http://www.dailymail.co.uk/debate/article-3488679/PETER-OBORNE-power-vacuum-Libya-bloody-debacle-shames-David-Cameron.html
161
16
When it comes to domestic policy, I am happy to state that David Cameron has achieved a considerable amount.

He has had the wisdom to allow Iain Duncan Smith the freedom to carry out a fundamental — and badly-needed — shake-up of our welfare system.

Also, Michael Gove's education reforms have improved the life chances of millions of children. And Jeremy Hunt is making progress to reform the NHS.

However, the PM's foreign policy is another matter.

I realise that 'inept' is a very strong word — but it is, I believe, the best one to describe many aspects of his conduct of foreign affairs.

Most recently, Cameron demonstrated that ineptness during his pathetic attempt to negotiate a new relationship between Britain and the EU.

When it comes to domestic policy, I am happy to state that David Cameron has achieved a considerable amount, but the PM's foreign policy has been 'inept', writes PETER OBORNE (pictured, car bomb explosion in Benghazi, Libya in 2011)

But this was not his biggest disaster. That was his handling of the Allies' catastrophic intervention into Libya in 2011, which has left the North African country in a state of chaos.

The political vacuum has been filled by the murderous zealots of ISIS, who have turned Libya into a stronghold for their holy war and campaign of bloodshed against the West. Much of Libya is now ungovernable.

This calamity is almost entirely the fault of Cameron and his then-French counterpart Nicolas Sarkozy, who foolishly believed they could bring peace and democracy to post-Gaddafi Libya.

It is no surprise that President Barack Obama this week launched a devastating public attack on Cameron for allowing Libya to descend into lawlessness and become a haven for terrorists.

The U.S. President attacked the British Prime Minister in The Atlantic magazine for helping to turn Libya into a 's*** show'. He said he had been 'wrong' to trust Britain to invest heavily in the reconstruction of Libya after the fall of Gaddafi in 2011.

Obama said Cameron had failed to focus on Libya because he became 'distracted by a range of other things'. However candid and brutal, Obama's criticisms are fully justified. The facts tell the story.

Britain spent £320 million on bombing Libya, then invested only £25 million to try to stabilise the country afterwards.

Having toppled Gaddafi, it seems that Cameron then simply hoped for the best and turned his attention to other issues.

The political vacuum is almost entirely the fault of Cameron (left) and his then-French counterpart Nicolas Sarkozy (right), who foolishly believed they could bring peace and democracy in the post-Gaddafi era, writes Oborne

I have witnessed the terrible effects of this negligence during visits to Libya since the intervention.

More than one million Libyans — a sixth of the population — are believed to be suffering malnutrition and an estimated 500,000 have been forced from their homes.

Kidnapping and terrorism are rife. Huge amounts of weapons — including surface-to-air missiles — are in the hands of rebel militias. Oil production has plummeted.

The truth is that Cameron's Government had no proper strategy and no understanding of the country. Specifically, there was a shameful ignorance of the tribal structures that have caused so many divisions.

Disgracefully, David Cameron's negligence continues. I have proof of this dereliction of duty in the form of a copy of a letter from Abdullah al-Thani, the Libyan Prime Minister, which he sent to Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond in November.

Clearly, it was a desperate plea for help. It asked for assistance with logistical equipment to secure Libya's borders and 'to stop illicit weapons, drugs and people-trafficking across Eastern and Southern Libya'.

It set out the Libyan Government's long-term ambition to rebuild 'a democratic unified Libya'.

The letter did not ask for — let alone even mention — British troops, or even financial support. The Libyan PM offered co-operation in return for advice from the Cameron Government. Significantly, it also addressed issues that had profound implications for Britain — namely the need to tackle 'problems of migration and ISIS terrorism'.

The letter could not have been more pertinent. For not only are many Libyans among the hundreds of thousands of migrants entering Europe every year, but the country has been a major jumping-off point for refugees from other countries who try their luck in boats across the Mediterranean.

The U.S. President attacked the British Prime Minister in The Atlantic magazine for helping to turn Libya into a 's*** show' (pictured, a burning tank in Libya)

Despite raising these important matters more than three months ago, I can reveal that Hammond's office has not even replied to the Libyan PM.

The Foreign Office has a team of six ministers answering to Hammond. Even out of courtesy, surely one of them could have found the time to reply.

Of course, it is true that the authority of Prime Minister Abdullah al-Thani extends only in the east of Libya, and is fiercely disputed by the militia groups who control the west of the country.

Nevertheless, he is Libya's democratically elected and officially recognised leader. So why was his appeal to Britain for help at a time of national emergency ignored?

This appalling episode should worry anyone who values Britain's reputation overseas.

To make matters worse, since the failure of the Foreign Office to respond to the Libyan PM's call for help, ISIS has entrenched itself in the country. The terrorist group now occupies the seaport of Sirte — brutalising the local population and smuggling migrants to Europe.

I have spoken to several Libyan politicians and officials — many of whom are fiercely pro-British and remember how we helped expel the Nazis from their soil in 1942.

They cannot understand Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond's rudeness — or why Britain continues to impose sanctions on Libya.

For his part, Hammond seems not to have learnt the wise advice of Colin Powell, U.S. Secretary of State during the invasion of Iraq — that 'if you break a country, you own it'.

Obama said he had been 'wrong' to trust Britain to invest heavily in the reconstruction of Libya after the fall of Gaddafi (pictured in 2010) in 2011

What he meant was there is a basic moral imperative for anyone who invades a country to then help rebuild it. Clearly, this is not the way that Messrs Cameron and Hammond see the world. They think you can smash up a country and walk away, leaving others to sort out the mess.

This is a reprehensible abrogation of moral duty.

That said, efforts are being made to try to understand what went wrong in the aftermath of Gaddafi's fall.

Late last year, to its credit, the Commons Foreign Affairs Committee launched an inquiry into Britain's role in Libya. The majority of witnesses have now been heard, and the findings are bound to make very troubling reading.

For instance, we already know that David Cameron decided to join the French and intervene in Libya, despite his most senior military adviser, the Chief of Defence Staff, General Sir David Richards, advising caution.

Also, the head of the Secret Intelligence Service, John Sawers, said that it was not in the national interest.

Crucially, the Commons committee was told that the planning ahead of the war was inadequate. Alan Duncan, a minister of state at the Department for International Development at the time of the military intervention, accused the Government of making a 'whopping assumption that anything that follows Gaddafi will be better. It did not foresee the historic and tribal tensions [that would] be unleashed'.

In other words, the Cameron Government was woefully unprepared.

Now, it has taken President Obama to point this failure out — and not before time.

Just before Christmas, I travelled to the city of Benghazi in east Libya. It was largely controlled by rebels who oppose the democratically-elected government.

I asked to go to Liberation Square (Benghazi's equivalent of London's Trafalgar Square) so I could see the spot where Cameron had made his victory speech after the fall of Gaddafi, pledging to Libyans to restore democracy.

My guides looked at me as if I was mad. They told me it was in the hands of ISIS and we would all be kidnapped or killed if we went there.

In the past few weeks, however, there has been some good news in Benghazi. Thanks, in part, to French special forces, the city has been liberated from rebels. Government troops are now advancing west towards ISIS-held areas.

Nevertheless, the fact is that Libya has become for David Cameron what the Iraq invasion was for Tony Blair — a considerable black mark on his reputation.

As Britain's former ambassador to Libya witheringly told the BBC yesterday, the 'traumatic effects' of Blair's actions in Iraq 'have left a dreadful stain on the ability' of the British people to trust their Government on overseas operations at times of international crisis.

It is time that Cameron, too, is held to account for the military intervention in Libya — just as Blair was for his invasion of Iraq.

The Commons Foreign Affairs Committee should summon the Prime Minister to explain his conduct during the Libyan adventure.

It should ask why he appears to have ignored his most senior military adviser?

It should ask if preparations for the aftermath of invasion were adequate?