https://www.yahoo.com/news/lets-talk-paul-ryans-non-161338169.html
161
16
From Esquire

"It's just words, folks. It's just words. Those words, I've been hearing them for many years."

-Donald J. Trump, Republican candidate for president, October 9, 2016.

The most predictable fallout from Sunday night's gutterdammerung in St. Louis was that the leaders of what we now laughingly call the Republican Establishment would be wrapping themselves in their most eloquent weaselspeak as regards to their party's standard-bearer. And we were not disappointed.

On Monday morning, Speaker Paul Ryan, the zombie-eyed granny-starver from the state of Wisconsin, led the chorus. Per CNBC:

House Speaker Paul Ryan told fellow Republican lawmakers Monday he will not defend Donald Trump and focus only on holding congressional majorities. "The speaker is going to spend the next month focused entirely on protecting our congressional majorities," a Ryan spokeswoman told NBC News. His decision follows outrage over a leaked 2005 video that shows GOP presidential nominee Trump joking about touching women without consent. Following the video's release, numerous Republican lawmakers said they would not back Trump, though Ryan and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell had not explicitly rescinded their support.

Good lord, he must be looking at internal polling that turns his liver to water.

But, beyond that, what the hell does this mean? It means that Ryan doesn't have the stones to rescind his endorsement and that he is telling the rest of his caucus to swim away from the wreckage before it sucks them all down into the abyss. It also means that Ryan is resigned to a President Hillary Rodham Clinton and that his primary focus is to keep the power to obstruct yet another Democratic president.

It also means that Ryan still thinks there's enough energy in the dank regions of The Base to do him and his caucus real damage if he were to rescind formally his endorsement. His loyalty is purely toward his caucus, not toward the country. This was Paul Ryan's Ecce Homo moment. He did everything except ask for a basin in which to wash his hands. The essential gutlessness of the man always will shine through.

View photos

And then there's Mike Pence, the vice-presidential candidate. All through the 48 hours after the release of the pussy-grabbing tape, Pence was said to be livid-"apoplectic," was the word bandied about most frequently-at what was on the video. Trump did nothing between the release of the tape and Sunday night's debate except turn the election into even more of a freak show in which, among other things, he tossed Pence under an APC in the sands of Syria.

In the aftermath, Pence, that good Christian man, went on CNN to pronounce himself still a loyal crewman.

Pence made no immediate public reference to their foreign policy disconnect. At the debate's end, Pence tweeted "congrats to my running mate @realDonaldTrump on a big debate win! Proud to stand with you as we #MAGA." Pence on Monday insisted that he and Trump stood "shoulder to shoulder" on Syria. He told CNN's Alisyn Camerota on "New Day" that debate moderator Martha Raddatz of ABC News "misrepresented" his position. "I think the way she framed that was to suggest that I had implied we ought to use military power to achieve regime change," Pence said. "I simply never said that." Pence said he and Trump agree on the establishment of safe zones in Syria to address the country's humanitarian crisis. He said that could include using military power to secure those zones. Asked by Camerota why Trump said Monday night that he had not spoken with Pence about the issue, Pence said his running made said they "hadn't spoken specifically" about what Raddatz asked.

They know, all of them know, that there is a substantial portion of their party that feeds itself on lies and slander, and they know that those people can still fck their shit up in a hundred ways. They know that those people were thrilled by what El Caudillo del Mar-A-Lago did on Sunday. This would be true even if HRC were to pitch an Electoral College shutout. And now we have the putative leaders of the party taking refuge in the low bigotry of soft expectations.

It's every weasel for themselves and there isn't anywhere near enough room on the ratlines of the listing hulk of the 2016 Republican campaign.

Click here to respond to this post on the official Esquire Politics Facebook page.

[contentlinks align="center" textonly="false" numbered="false" headline="Related%20Story" customtitles="Donald%20Trump%20Is%20Without%20Parallel" customimages="" content="article.49443"]

You Might Also Like