http://www.themalaymailonline.com/malaysia/article/hadis-bill-will-only-affect-kelantan-think-again-says-mca-bureau
160
16
Hadi’s Bill will only affect Kelantan? Think again, says MCA bureau

The Shariah Courts (Criminal Jurisdiction) Act amendments proposed by PAS leader Datuk Seri Abdul Hadi Awang (pictured) was a ‘sneaky tactic’ to implement hudud via federal law, a MCA leader said. — File picKUALA LUMPUR, May 28 — PAS president Datuk Seri Abdul Hadi Awang’s private member’s Bill to elevate Shariah courts will end up affecting the whole country and not just Kelantan, MCA legal affairs bureau chairman Datuk Tay Puay Chuan warned today.

Hadi’s proposed amendments to the Shariah Courts (Criminal Jurisdiction) Act, which was fast tracked in Parliament by Putrajaya itself this week, was also dubbed by Tay as a “sneaky tactic” to implement controversial Islamic laws of hudud via federal law.

“Hadi Awang’s proposal to amend Act 355 is part of changing federal legislation. If and when the proposed amendments are passed, the Shariah court can exercise its punitive authority not only in Kelantan but in all other states in Malaysia.

“Hence, not only are Kelantanese Muslims affected but all Malaysians too,” Tay said in a statement.

He also disputed statements by fellow Barisan Nasional leaders Deputy Prime Minister Datuk Seri Dr Ahmad Zahid Hamidi and minister in charge of religious affairs Datuk Seri Dr Jamil Khir Baharom, that the amendments will only affect Muslims in the east coast state.

“On the contrary, changes to the Act will affect people in the whole of West Malaysia,” he said.

“Hadi Awang must be chided and exposed for deploying a crafty method to disguise the implementation of PAS hudud enactments.”

Tay’s statement came after Kedah MCA deputy chairman Datuk Dr Leong Yong Kong quit the Chinese-majority party yesterday in protest of Putrajaya fast tracking Hadi’s Bill in Parliament.

Dr Leong, who is also Gurun assemblyman, said that he is quitting “until the issue has a turnaround.”

On Thursday, the government put in a motion to bring the reading of the private member’s Bill forward and allowed Hadi to read the amendments.

However, the Marang MP asked for a deferment of the debate on the Bill until the next Parliament session.

Seeking to quell criticisms from within the ruling coalition, Prime Minister Datuk Seri Najib Razak then claimed that the bill is not meant to implement hudud laws, while describing the whole issue as a “misunderstanding”.