http://www.freemalaysiatoday.com/category/nation/2016/06/02/no-more-cheap-liquor-from-december-2017/
160
16
Government to raise taxes on compounded hard liquor, and the age limit for buying liquor, to tackle the toll cheap liquor takes on the poor.

PUTRAJAYA: Compounded hard liquor sold at coffee shops and sundry outlets that costs RM5 now will cost RM50 per 700ml bottle next year.

The Government is raising the age limit to buy liquor, and the price of liquor, to tackle growing concerns over the effects of cheap liquor on society, including school children.

The Consumers Association of Penang has for years been campaigning for a ban on cheap hard liquor, showing proof that it is taking a toll on the poor, including very young people.

CAP has pointed out that cheap liquor contains 20-42 per cent alcohol and is sold at a minimum of RM2 per bottle at sundry shops and grocery outlets.

Health Minister Dr S Subramaniam yesterday announced that the Government had decided to raise the age limit to buy alcoholic beverages from 18 to 21. It also plans to raise taxes on compounded hard liquor.

The new ruling and the increase in taxes take effect 18 months from now.

The Star quoted Subramaniam as saying: “The regulations pertaining to control of alcohol under the Food Regulation 1985 were amended and gazetted on May 27. Changes in policy are in line with an international agreement signed by Malaysia in 2010 during the World Health Assembly, aimed to reduce availability of alcoholic beverages in the market.”

He said premises selling alcohol would have to display a notice prohibiting the sale of liquor to those under 21 and to warn customers of the dangers of consuming such beverages.

The report said manufacturers had until the end of next year to ensure their products had a warning label, and bars and other outlets must display alcoholic drinks separately from other beverages.

The minister told the media the move was also to prevent teenagers and students from consuming alcohol. Those who break the rules face a fine of not more than RM10,000 or jail of up to two years.

“From December next year, compounded hard liquor sold in coffee shops, medicine halls and sundry outlets will no longer be available cheap. These drinks can only be sold in 700ml bottles and with the increase in tax, a drink which can now be purchased for RM5 will become RM50,” he said.

Dr Subramaniam was quoted as saying: “We found that cheap liquor has caused social issues, particularly in the poor and low income category. There are cases of people sleeping and lying on the streets due to excessive consumption of alcohol. That is why we need to initiate measures to tackle it.”

He said the new regulation would be enforced at the end of 2017 to allow manufacturers time to make changes to their packaging, and labelling of products and to comply with the World Trade Organisation practice.