http://www.dailymail.co.uk/health/article-3798084/Do-junior-doctors-want-strike-Leaked-emails-reveal-question-marks-support-five-day-walkouts.html
160
16
Junior doctors are being questioned by their union to see if they still want to go ahead with the latest controversial strikes, leaked emails reveal.

A memo sent to thousands of doctors highlight fears many no longer back the industrial action and are not willing to take part.

In emails obtained by The Telegraph, suggest the week-long strikes - planned every month until Christmas - may be dropped unless members show their support.

The British Medical Association (BMA) junior doctors committee has now began surveying medics to determine if they are backing the proposed industrial action.

Scroll down for video

Junior doctors are being questioned by their union to see if they still want to go ahead with the controversial strikes, leaked emails obtained by The Telegraph reveal

It comes as a hearing brought by campaign group Justice for Health started its second day in High Court.

One email sent to 9,000 junior doctors in the South Thames area, from member Dr Kitty Mohan, read: 'Since the most recent programme of industrial action was announced last month, many have written to us individually, or informed either the BMA centrally, your hospital junior doc reps, or your trainee group that your views may have changed.

'If you do not respond, we will have no choice but to presume you are not willing to take part in further [industrial action] and wish the dispute to end,' documents seen by the newspaper revealed.

Other regional committees are believed to have started questioning junior doctors to assess the desire to strike.

But the email from Dr Mohan should not be taken as a signal that the BMA 'trying to back out of' industrial action, The Telegraph reported.

The first in the wave of new strikes - planned by the British Medical Association - was called off earlier this month after fears of patient safety.

But the junior doctors committee said they would presume not responding to the email showed an unwillingness to take part in further industrial action

Ellen McCourt, the chairwoman of the junior doctors committee at the BMA, previously said: 'We have to listen to our colleagues when they tell us that they need more time to keep patients safe.

'The BMA is therefore suspending the industrial action planned for the week of 12 September. The remaining programme of industrial action stays in place.'

But she remained adamant the rest of the planned strike action - due to resume in October - will go ahead if Mr Hunt refuses to make concessions.

Health leaders have already warned junior doctors who strike for more than two weeks could face competency assessments and be red-flagged by the General Medical Council.

If you do not respond, we will have no choice but to presume you are not willing to take part in further [industrial action] and wish the dispute to end. Dr Kitty Mohan, member of the junior doctors committee

Strikes could lead to a 'loss of training experience', Health Education England (HEE) say.

The leaked emails come after junior doctors took their fight to the High Court yesterday in a bid to block the Government's decision to introduce a controversial new contract.

Campaign group Justice for Health accused Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt of seeking to impose 'unsafe and unsustainable' terms and conditions as part of his plans for seven-day NHS services in England.

In a two-day hearing in London, lawyers for the doctors say that Mr Hunt has not only acted unlawfully but 'misled Parliament'.

The medics contend his decision to impose the contract lacks a sound or rational foundation.

But Mr Hunt hit back at the accusations on Monday night, saying the High Court challenge should be dismissed.

The dispute over the contracts has already led to thousands of operations and appointments being cancelled since strikes started in January.

The campaign group raised more than £150,000 through crowdfunding to bring their case to High Court

Until now, the longest strike has only last two days.

But next month, when the new contract is due to be introduced, thousands of junior doctors are planning the first five-day walk-out.

But the medics are arguing although Mr Hunt is entitled to 'recommend' a new contract, he is attempting to go significantly further even though he has no power to decide the terms and conditions under which the NHS and other bodies should employ junior doctors.

The group's founding members are all junior doctors - Dr Nadia Masood, Dr Ben White, Dr Fran Silman, Dr Amar Mashru and Dr Marie-Estella McVeigh.

They raised £151,625 from 5,113 donations from a crowdfunding page to bring a High Court judicial review.

Their solicitor Saimo Chahal, from law firm Bindmans, described them as 'incredibly brave' in seeking to hold Mr Hunt to account.

Ms Chahal said: 'They are fighting not about conditions of employment but about issues which lie at the heart and soul of the NHS.'

Dr Silman said: 'We have spent the last year trying to explain to Jeremy Hunt why the contract is flawed, and why it is irrational to continue with imposition, given the current staffing and funding crisis in the NHS.

'Mr Hunt has ignored doctors' concerns, and so we are forced to turn to the courts.'

Their dispute with the Government led to the first full walkout strikes of their kind in British history.

Junior doctors rejected the latest contract offer put to a referendum by the British Medical Association (BMA) in June.

The Health Secretary decided to impose the contract, leaving junior doctors complaining that their concerns had been ignored.

Mr Hunt told Parliament that the NHS needed certainty, including in light of the UK's decision to leave the EU.

Responding to the latest development on Monday, Barrister Clive Sheldon QC, who led Mr Hunt's legal team, told Mr Justice Green in a written statement: 'The claim is wholly without substance.'

He said Mr Hunt had felt that a new contract should be introduced by the NHS.