http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/boycott-byron-calls-after-35-8508072
161
16
Customers have slammed burger company Byron after dozens of staff were arrested in an immigration crackdown.

The Home Office said 35 people from Albania, Brazil, Nepal and Egypt were arrested for immigration offences at a number of restaurants across London.

It added the operation was carried out with the "full co-operation" of Byron earlier this month.

An anonymous tipster claimed Home Office immigration officers were laying in wait when staff arrived to a 9.30am meeting on July 4.

Speaking to The Guardian a senior worker in one of the branches said: “It is f***ing disgusting.

"Some of these people worked here for four or five years and they weren’t even given a chance to say goodbye."

After reports of the arrests on Spanish language website El Iberico last week, there has been a backlash from some customers, with the hashtag #boycottbyron trending on Facebook and Twitter.

The hashtag #boycottbyron has been trending on Facebook and Twitter

Abi Wilkinson wrote: "Never, ever eating at Byron Burgers again and would encourage others to make same decision. Craven, despicable behaviour #boycottbyron."

A protest, organised by a number of groups, including United Voices of the World Union, War On Want and Global Justice Now had been organised for August 1, outside a Holborn branch.

Getty The Home Office confirmed 35 people were arrested from Albania, Brazil, Nepal and Egypt (file image)

On the 'Protest: Shame on Byron - No one is illegal Facebook' group Floyd Codlin wrote: "Where's the humanity? If we had open borders, and people in the service industry were allowed to organise in a union, then there'd be no need for deportations.

Luring your own staff who's labour you've benefited from for 4+ years into a room filled with cops is next level SNAKE. #BoycottByron — Abbie (@abbiewastaken) July 27, 2016

"Also those who think that these deportations are a good thing, are also those who've also never fought for the jobs of workers anywhere, whether foreign or British, that's a guarantee."

However, others stood by the business, saying they felt the company acted appropriately - branding it a "middle-class protest".

Lee wrote: "The people were here illegally, so no, I won't boycottbyron.

And Stephen wrote: "Such a middle-class protest #BoycottByron.

"We're supposed to praise employers who keep hush about illegal workers?

"In fact, I may pay them regular visits for doing what is right."

Never, ever eating at @byronhamburgers again and would encourage others to make same decision. Craven, despicable behaviour #boycottbyron — Abi Wilkinson (@AbiWilks) July 27, 2016

The people were here illegally, so no, I won't #boycottbyron ,,, In fact, I may pay them regular visits for doing what is right. — Lee (@alrightlandlord) July 27, 2016

A spokeswoman said: "The Home Office recognises that Byron as an employer is fully compliant with immigration and asylum law in its employment practices, and that Byron had carried out the correct ‘right to work’ checks on staff members, but had been shown false/counterfeit documentation.

"At Byron we are proud of the diversity of our restaurant teams, built around people of all backgrounds and all walks of life.

"We have cooperated fully and acted upon the Home Office’s requests throughout the course of the investigations leading to this action, and will continue to do so."

Such a middle-class protest...#BoycottByron. We're supposed to praise employers who keep hush about illegal workers??? — Stephen (@AdjustNothing) July 27, 2016

A Home Office spokesman said: "Immigration Enforcement officers carried out intelligence-led visits to a number of Byron Hamburgers restaurants across London on 4 July, arresting 35 people for immigration offences.

"The operation was carried out with the full co-operation of the business."