http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/709926/Asylum-seeker-numbers-france-rockets-20-europes-migrant-crisis-continues
36
3
GETTY Migrants applying for asylum in France have rocketed by 20 per cent according to official figures

Numbers being granted refugee status by the French Office for the Protection of Refugees and Stateless people (OFPRA) is also on the rise by 36.7 per cent, six points higher than in 2015. With over a third of migrants being granted asylum, France is getting closer to the European average, which, according to the statistics arm of the European Commission, Eurostat, is currently 45 per cent. The vast majority of asylum seekers hail from Afghanistan or Sudan, and live in the Calais Jungle migrant tent camp, where six out of 10 migrants are granted asylum.

GETTY With over a third of migrants being granted asylum, France is getting closer to the European average

But Afghanistan is in the lead when it comes to asylum applications. This year, the number of Afghan migrants seeking refuge in France rose by a staggering 726 per cent between January and August. Some are arguing that the OFPRA is not processing migrant applications quickly enough, despite the unprecedented rise in demand. According to OFPRA’s managing director Pascal Brice, the looming terror threat means it is “important” for his staff to spend time “thoroughly” investigating a migrant’s asylum application and carrying out in-depth background checks.

GETTY Majority of asylum seekers come from Afghanistan or Sudan, and live in the Calais 'jungle camp'

Rushing through applications could result in granting refugee or asylum status to a migrant with links to a terrorist group, which would be an “absolute catastrophe,” he said. OFPRA is also responsible for helping relocate migrants after president Francois Hollande pledged to take in 30,000 illegal immigrants stranded in Italy and Greece before the end of 2017 in September last year. But according to the General Directorate for Foreigners in France, the DGEF, France has only taken in 1,656 of these migrants, with another 333 expected to arrive at the end of the month.

GETTY Hollande pledged to take 30,000 illegal immigrants in Italy and Greece before the end of 2017

Jungle Migrant Camp in protests Mon, October 3, 2016 Up to 10,000 migrants are now living at the camp and are using desperate and violent measures to try and board trucks heading for the UK. Play slideshow REUTERS 1 of 24 Demonstrators protest near the area called the