http://www.express.co.uk/news/uk/679965/eu-referendum-jean-claude-juncker-european-union-brexit-commission-gordon-brown-cameron
160
16
GETTY Jean-Claude Juncker is set to intervene is the EU referendum debate

The beleaguered President of the European Commission is ready to backtrack on his promise to stay out of the debate and make a panicked intervention next week. The Brussels fat cat has been taking part in a last-minute meeting with former Prime Minister and stringent Remain campaigner Gordon Brown.

GETTY Juncker has held crisis talks with Gordon Brown

And the discussions between the two eurocratic statesmen have sparked rumours of an imminent offer to British voters from Mr Juncker’s Commission. If the veteran Scottish politician’s interfering pays off, it will be the second time he has rescued David Cameron’s referendum efforts.

GETTY David Cameron is desperate for Juncker not to get involved in the debate

In 2014 Mr Brown made an impassioned soapbox speech in favour of Scotland remaining part of the union after the Prime Minister had failed to convince voters north of the border. In that instance, Mr Brown was a key figure in the offering up of extra devolution powers by Westminster.

EU referendum: Reasons to vote in & out Tue, May 24, 2016 On the 23 June Britain decides whether to leave or remain in the European Union. Here are 6 reasons to vote in or out. Play slideshow Getty Images 1 of 15 Reasons to remain or leave the EU

But it is unclear what Mr Juncker could offer to the British people before they go to the polls next week to decide whether to sever ties with the bloc. Any concessions given to Britain would be made futile by the bureaucratic bloc’s insistence that prior agreements be made with all 27 other member states.

German media has reported that desperate David Cameron has pleaded with Juncker to “keep out of the debate” after fearing that voters will form a backlash if the Government is seen to be gaining help from EU leaders. The Prime Minister reportedly believes that the “miserable reputation in Britain” of Brussels officials would mean a Juncker intervention could be detrimental to Remain’s cause.

GETTY Boris Johnson's Leave campaign is gaining in the polls