http://newyork.cbslocal.com/2016/06/15/fallout-simon-wiesenthal-funding/
162
16
NEW YORK (CBSNewYork) — There is more fallout from the New York City corruption scandal.

CBS2’s Marcia Kramer reported the City Council’s decision to stop funding for a prominent Jewish museum has set off a chain reaction after a resignation from the board and an NYPD review of its relationship.

Kramer initially reported Monday the Simon Wiesenthal Center is in turmoil because of its connections to the city corruption scandal. The City Council cut off funds to the center to teach tolerance and sensitivity to cops and correction officers, which was an expected $500,000 in the coming fiscal year.

Tuesday’s story has generated a number of developments.

The center is severing its ties to Murray Huberfeld, who was indicted last week with Correction Officers President Norman Seabrook in what appears to be the first of the corruption indictments.

“Mr. Huberfeld has notified the Simon Wiesenthal Center of his intention to resign from the board,” spokesman John McCook said.

McCook added that the center is also conducting its own investigation of its ties to Huberfeld and Jona Rechnitz, a cooperating witness in the case against Huberfeld and Seabrook, to “determine if any further action is appropriate.”

However, the City Council said those steps are not enough for it to restore funding.

“Given some of the news about some of the things that have gone on, the council decided it wouldn’t be prudent to fund the Simon Wiesenthal Center,” council communications director Eric Koch said.

CBS2’s Kramer tried to get the NYPD to explain how it will replace the Wiesenthal training programs, but a spokesman referred us to comments made last week by Deputy Commissioner for Legal Matters Lawrence Byrne.

“We’re reviewing the program as we review all our training programs on an annual basis,” Byrne said.

Late Wednesday, the NYPD said it has adequate training in place even without the Wisenthal programs.

CBS2’s Kramer also asked Mayor Bill de Blasio if he thought the council was right to cut off funds to the center given its ties to the corruption scandal.

“I don’t critique,” de Blasio said. “They make choices about their spending.”

De Blasio’s reticence may have something to do with the fact that Rechnitz has reportedly been questioned by federal authorities about the mayor’s fundraising.

In the past two years, the Wiesenthal Center has received $655,000 from the City Council.

A spokesman said the center has received city grants for years, “long before Jona Rechnitz had any connection” with the museum.