http://www.4-traders.com/HERSHEY-CO-12988/news/Hershey-Critics-assail-Kathleen-Kane-s-latest-attempt-to-reform-the-Hershey-School-22783320/
160
16
July 29 --Attorney General Kathleen Kane announced on Friday that five of the longest-serving and highest-paid board members on the $12.3-billion Hershey Trust for poor children would resign over the next 18 months after a probe into the board's compensation, governance and travel expenses.

Friday's settlement would create a new board majority for the embattled nine-member board. It also marks the second attempt by Kane in four years -- and the third effort since 1994 -- to fix the scandal-plagued charity.

Hershey board members, while overseeing a school for poor children, have earned millions of dollars in compensation and spent more than $4 million on outside law firms since mid-2015 to investigate one other over conflicts of interest and possible insider trading involving Hershey chocolate company stock.

In a 30-minute press conference, Kane said she did not require that Hershey Trust board members reimburse the legal fees to the trust for poor children because the attorney general's office considered those payments part of a "legitimate dispute."

Kane said she believed that "we are evolving to a brighter future" for the trust. She saw it as a good sign that "we did not have to go into court and sue them to force changes."

Because Kane's law license has been suspended as she awaits a criminal trial next month, First Deputy Attorney General Bruce L. Castor Jr . signed the agreement.

Trust chairwoman Velma Redmond said in a statement that the talks with the attorney general's office were "productive. We are satisfied with the outcome."

Critics lost no time attacking the agreement which they said wouldn't force the charity to correct its ways and may be weaker than past ones.

Ric Fouad , a school alum who is President of Protect The Hersheys' Children, an adovocacy group, said " Pennsylvania officials have again taken pains to preserve the Hershey child welfare charity as a patronage slush fund.

"This agreement does nothing for needy kids and everything for those profiteering at kids' expense. Attorney General Kane has again disgraced her office and thrown needy kids under a bus."

"It's riddled with loopholes," added Joseph Berning , another alum who has been advocating for reforms since the mid-1990s, citing language in the agreement such as "best efforts" to maintain a 13-member board. "I'm so frustrated I can't see straight."

Because the attorney general's office did not force the board members to reimburse the millions of dollars in legal fees, "they can do whatever they want with the trust money as long as they [collectively] agree to it. The attorney general has given them carte blanche."

The Hershey Trust is considered the nation's largest child charity because it finances and oversees the 2,000-student Milton Hershey School .

Buoyed by decades of dividends from Hershey chocolate company stock, the trust has amassed $12.3 billion in asssets, about ten times the endowment for Phillips Exeter Academy , a bellweather prep school.

The agreement, which will be filed with the Dauphin County Orphan's Court, says that the attorney general's office has to be given a 30-day notice when Hershey Trust is about to appoint new board members and that members will serve maximum 10-year terms, which could be extended by one year.

The agreement sets $110,000 as annual board compensation, plus additional $10,000 to chair a board committee. Trust board members can still sit on the board's of for-profit companies owned or controlled by the charity, which can boost their compensation significantly.

The agreement calls for the Hershey Trust boards -- one to manage the charity's finances and a second to oversee the school, but comprised of the same individuals -- to expand to 13 members from the current nine.

Former chairman Robert Cavanaugh , Joseph Senser and James Nevels will resign by Dec. 31 , the agreement says.

Both sit on the Hershey Trust Co. and the Hershey Co. chocolate giant boards.

Cavanaugh, an alum who was appointed to the trust in 2001, is a former trust board chairman. Last year, Cavanaugh was embroiled in a conflicts of interest scandal when his college-age son was hired into a lucrative summer internship, earning about $13,000 over 10 weeks from one of the Hershey Trust's outside money managers.

The Hershey Trust board paid a New York law firm $650,000 to see if Cavanaugh violated the trust's conflict of interest policies. The report -- which ended up costing about $38,000 a page -- cleared Cavanaugh.

The current chairwoman of the trust, Velma Redmond , and board member James Mead will have to resign by Dec. 31, 2017 .

Redmond joined the board in 2001 and is well past the 10-year limit. But Kane said it was important for Redmond stay for continuity with so many board departures.

While Kane called Friday's reforms "wonderful," they seem to be barely different from ones the trust voluntarily agreed to more than 20 years ago.

In 1994, the Hershey Trust announced as part of its reforms package to settle an attorney general investigation that it would restrict board members to two five-year terms -- or ten years total, according to an April 7 press release from that year.

As part of those 1994 reforms, the trust also said that its "new criteria for board membership" included "school-related experience, such as education and child development."

The Hershey Trust boards still lack experts and the new agreement says the trust has to use "best efforts" to appoint them to the boards.

Kane said the attorney general's investigation did not involve the Hershey Co. chocolate company, which is controlled by the trust.

Mondelez International Inc. offered to acquire Hershey Co. for $107 a share in June but the offer was rebuffed by the Hershey company's board. Many on Wall Street expect Mondelez to make a higher offer with the trust board weakened.

bfernandez@phillynews.com 215-854-5897 @bobfernandez1

___

(c)2016 The Philadelphia Inquirer

Visit The Philadelphia Inquirer at www.philly.com

Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.