http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3795806/Afghan-boy-14-killed-tries-climb-lorry-bound-UK.html
164
16
A 14-year-old boy from Afghanistan has been killed in a hit-and-run in Calais as he tried to board a moving lorry heading to the UK in a bid to join his brother.

The child, who had been living in the Jungle camp for almost six months, was attempting to get on to the roof of the vehicle as it slowed on the main motorway approaching the port early on Friday.

Witnesses said another boy was helping him but lost his grip and the lad fell to the road where he was hit by a car. Its driver failed to stop, the Guardian reported.

The teenager, who has not yet been named, was described as 'polite and gentle' by friends and was said to be trying to join a brother already in the UK. This gives him the right to travel to Britain.

Three migrants risk their lives clinging to the flat roof of the lorry as it prepares to move

Children's charities say his death – one of 13 near the port this year alone – highlights the dangers asylum-seeking minors take each night. The young boy, who is the third child from the camp to have died, had an application for papers to allow him to travel to the UK made months ago.

But as progress was slow, he had begun trying to stow away, it was reported. 'He had already started the legal process for family reunification, but he had been waiting for so long he lost faith in the system and thought his only option was to risk his life in order to finally reach safety,' said Annie Gavrilescu of charity HelpRefugees.

There are more than 900 unaccompanied children – some as young as eight – living in squalid conditions in the camp where they are at risk of abuse. Many have family in the UK and make weekly attempts to reach them.

Labour peer Alf Dubs, who persuaded the Government to introduce legislation pledging sanctuary for some unaccompanied child refugees, said he was shocked by the death. But since the amendment in the Immigration Act was passed earlier this year, no children have benefited. 'The Government must speed up the process of identifying the children eligible to join family members already in the UK,' he told the Guardian.

The child had been living in the Jungle camp in Calais (pictured) for almost six months

More than 100 children in the Jungle are believed to have legitimate grounds for asylum in the UK but issues of identification have prompted local authorities to consider sending experts.