http://indianexpress.com/article/education/delhi-university-to-launch-7-vocational-courses-from-new-academic-session/
30
3
Candidates applying online registration for admission in Delhi University in New Delhi on Friday. Express photo by Praveen Khanna Candidates applying online registration for admission in Delhi University in New Delhi on Friday. Express photo by Praveen Khanna

The Delhi University is launching seven vocational courses in four of its colleges in subjects such as printing technology, software development and healthcare management, from the upcoming academic session.

The university’s Academic Council (AC) had last year given a go-ahead to Maharaja Agrasen College, Kalindi College, Jesus and Mary College and Ramanujan College to introduce these courses. However, they could not be introduced in the last academic session as various modalities were being worked out.

“The course being offered at Maharaja Agrasen College is a two-year Advanced Diploma Course while others are three-year courses. The university shall announce the detailed schedule for registration and admission to these courses very soon,” said DU’s Dean of Students’ Welfare, J M Khurana.

“There are 50 seats in each course. The registration is likely to begin from September 1,” he said. While Maharaja Agrasen College will offer advanced diploma courses in TV programming and news production, Jesus and Mary college will offer Bachelors in Vocational Studies (BVoc) courses in healthcare management and retail management and IT.

Kalindi College will be offering BVoc courses in printing technology and web designing while Ramanujan College will have BVoc courses in banking and financial services and insurance (BFSI) sector (banking operations) and software development.

Read: DU admissions 2016: Eighth and final cut-off list released

Breaking away from the regular arts, commerce and science streams, and recognising the need for vocational studies, UGC had in 2014 approved a three-year BVoc course.

Financial assistance of upto Rs 1.85 crore is also provided by UGC to each of the colleges, which are approved to offer the BVoc programme as under the National Skill Qualification Framework.

For more news on Delhi University, click here