http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3797105/PICTURED-Afghan-boy-14-killed-Calais-Jungle-climbing-lorry-cousin-17-driver-swerved-left-right-knock-off.html
160
16
Pictured: The 14-year-old boy from Afghanistan killed in the Calais Jungle camp after trying to stow away on a lorry

This is the 14-year-old boy killed in a hit-and-run in Calais when a lorry driver 'swerved left and right' as he clung to the roof and flung him into oncoming traffic.

The child, from Afghanistan, had been in the infamous Jungle camp for six months when his 17-year-old cousin helped him onto the roof as the lorry slowed on the motorway approaching the port on Friday.

In a bid to stowaway and join his brother in the UK, he clung to the roof but the lorry swerved in the road to shake him off and he was reportedly run over by three or four other lorries.

Other migrants rushed to help the boy, described as 'kind and gentle' by friends but he died at the scene. The lorry did not stop, the Guardian reported.

He had applied to come to the UK to join his brother - which is permitted under reunification laws - months ago but started trying to stow away because progress so slow, a Calais charity said.

Aid group Care4Calais claimed he had fled his home country ‘after the Taliban prevented him from attending school and tried to force him to join them and become a suicide bomber’.

‘His father feared for his life so sent him away to Europe in search of safety. He travelled from Iran to Turkey, then up through Bulgaria, Serbia, Germany and into France,’ a spokesman said.

The boy, who has not yet been identified, was the third child to have died in the camp and the 13th person to die there this year alone. Children's charities say his death highlights the dangers asylum-seeking minors take each night.

'He had already started the legal process for family reunification, but he had been waiting for so long he lost faith in the system and thought his only option was to risk his life in order to finally reach safety,' said Annie Gavrilescu of charity HelpRefugees.

Three migrants risk their lives clinging to the flat roof of the lorry as it prepares to move

French authorities have pledged the shantytown will be totally torn down ‘by the end of the year’, but the camp’s population has continued to spiral.

But the number living at the camp has topped 10,000 for the first time - 10,188 - after a 12 per cent increase from last month, the latest census produced by Help Refugees found.

Some 1,179 of the inhabitants are children, with 1,022 of these unaccompanied – a staggering 51 per cent jump since August - and some as young as eight live in the squalid conditions, where they are at risk of abuse.

More than 100 children in the Jungle are believed to have legitimate grounds for asylum in the UK but issues of identification have prompted local authorities to consider sending experts.

Miss Gavrilescu added: ‘With an impending eviction there is currently no plan for safe accommodation for the children remaining in the camp. Those still stuck in the Calais Jungle report increasing instances of self-harm, police violence, deteriorating mental health, insufficient food, inadequate accommodation and feeling hopeless.'

The child had been living in the Jungle camp in Calais (pictured) for almost six months

Sudanese migrants are now the most numerous, making up 43 per cent of the camp’s population, followed by 33 per cent who came from Afghanistan. Just one per cent are from both Syria and Iraq.

There are more than 1,000 unaccompanied children – some as young as eight – living in squalid conditions in the camp where they are at risk of abuse. Many have family in the UK and make weekly attempts to reach them.

Labour peer Alf Dubs, who persuaded the Government to introduce legislation pledging sanctuary for some unaccompanied child refugees, said he was shocked by the death. But since the amendment in the Immigration Act was passed earlier this year, no children have benefited. 'The Government must speed up the process of identifying the children eligible to join family members already in the UK,' he told the Guardian.