http://usa.onlinenigeria.com/news/146146-carole-middleton-joins-kate-and-will-for-church-service-near-balmoral.html
163
16
William and Kate have brought their children on annual visit to Highlands

Carole and husband Michael also took pride of place at church service

The women chatted amiably as the sovereign pointed out beauty spots

By Rebecca English for the Daily Mail

Published: 13:03 EST, 11 September 2016 | Updated: 21:39 EST, 11 September 2016

Guests of the Queen often expect to be chauffeured about – usually by a flunky.

But Carole Middleton must have been a little surprised to find herself riding shotgun to Her Majesty on a visit to Balmoral.

The 90-year-old monarch scotched rumours of a rift with the Duchess of Cambridge’s parents as she drove them about at the weekend.

Scroll down for video

The Queen was spotted driving Kate’s mother, Carole Middleton, back to Balmoral from a grouse shoot on Saturday. Carole and her husband are in Scotland as guests of Her Majesty

The Queen drove the Duchess of Cambridge to a picnic lunch with Prince William in the hills above Loch Muick on the Balmoral estate yesterday

On the way back from a grouse shoot on Saturday, the Queen could be seen chatting amiably with Carole – peering over the steering wheel of her Range Rover and pointing out beauty spots.

Carole and husband Michael flew to Aberdeen on Thursday on a scheduled British Airways flight.

They arrived hours after William and Kate, who have brought up their two children, Prince George and Princess Charlotte for their annual visit to the Highlands.

There have been rumours of friction between the Middletons and the Royal family, particularly Prince Charles, over access to George and Charlotte.

The two women chatted amiably as the sovereign - who could barely be seen over the steering wheel of her Range Rover - pointed out some beauty spots to Mrs Middleton on the way

Carole and her husband Michael flew up to Aberdeen on Thursday evening on a scheduled British Airways flight. Pictured, the Queen and Mrs Middleton return from a shoot yesterday

The Queen has also been wrongly accused of ‘freezing’ the Middleton family out.

But that seemed to be far from the case at the weekend. The extended family party have been enjoying country walks, picnics and BBQs.

Yesterday the Queen, dressed in a casual sleeveless jacket, drove the Duchess of Cambridge – or the Countess of Strathearn as she is known north of the border – to a picnic lunch with Prince William in the hills above Loch Muick on the estate.

A smiling Kate looked happy and relaxed as she sat in the front passenger seat of the dark green Range Rover in a khaki coat and patterned scarf.

Elegant in a tweed jacket, Carole Middleton looked relaxed as she joined senior members of Royal Family for a service at Crathie Kirk, near Balmoral Castle, on Sunday morning

William and Kate, who arrived in Royal Deeside on Thursday, have been staying at Prince Charles’s private Birkhall residence with their children. Pictured, the couple this morning

The Queen, pictured travelling to church with Prince Philip, invited Carole Middleton to join her family north of the border. William and Kate are currently on holiday with their children

A smiling Duchess of Cornwall opted for a festive pink jacket with tartan trim for the Sunday morning service. She was driven to the church by her husband, Prince Charles

William, 34, was also spotted driving a converted Land Rover Defender up the Capel Mounth path on the way to Glen Clova for a grouse shoot shortly after 10am yesterday.

On Sunday the Middletons also took pride of place in the royal pew at church.

The family holiday in Scotland will end this week. Prince William has engagements on Wednesday and Friday, before jetting off to Canada for an official Royal tour with his wife and children from September 24 until October 1.

Royal officials declined to comment on the Scottish holiday.

Carole looked relaxed as she was driven to the church service in a Range Rover this morning