https://www.yahoo.com/news/croatia-parliament-votes-dissolve-election-mid-september-110549267.html
163
16
Zagreb (AFP) - Croatian deputies voted to dissolve parliament on Monday, paving the way for an early election by mid-September, after Prime Minister Tihomir Oreskovic lost a vote of confidence last week.

The dissolution of parliament "will become effective on July 15," speaker Zeljko Reiner said, after which a new election must be held within 60 days.

The dissolution was backed by 137 deputies in the 151-seat assembly.

The right-wing government led by Oreskovic, a former pharmaceutical executive with no party affiliation, fell after only five months in power, inflicting a serious blow to the main party in the coalition, HDZ.

Cobbled together after indecisive November polls, the fragile coalition was beset by internal disputes between HDZ and its junior partner, Most, amid concerns over Croatia's shift to the right.

The political crisis escalated last month with a conflict of interest affair involving Tomislav Karamarko, the powerful HDZ head and deputy premier.

A national ethnics watchdog ruled last week that Karamarko had a conflict of interest due to a business deal between his wife and a lobbyist for Hungary's oil group MOL.

MOL is currently in arbitration with Croatia over its national oil group INA, in which it is a major shareholder.

As the coalition descended into chaos and its partners traded calls for resignations, HDZ filed a no-confidence motion against Oreskovic.

They accused the premier of trying to boost his own political power, instead of dealing with the economy as he had pledged -- accusations he firmly rejected.

- Reforms delayed -

Snap elections will delay much-needed reforms in the European Union's newest member, whose economy remains one of the worst performers in the bloc.

Croatia, which relies heavily on tourism along its Adriatic coast, emerged last year from a six-year recession.

Unemployment is above 15 percent, while public debt has reached 87 percent of gross domestic product (GDP).

Political risk consultancy Eurasia Group earlier said that a snap election was unlikely to offer a clear majority for a single party.

Surveys give the opposition Social Democrats, who were in power for four years until the November vote, a tiny lead over HDZ, whose popularity ratings have been hit by the oil affair.

Some local media reported Monday that Karamarko was to step down as HDZ chief later in the day to improve his party's prospects at the forthcoming polls.

The short rule of the conservatives came in for strong criticism from local activists, who warned of a growing climate of intolerance.

Critics accused the authorities of turning a blind eye and even contributing to concerns over a far-right surge, including nostalgia for a pro-Nazi past and increased pressure on ethnic minorities and the media.