http://www.dailymail.co.uk/columnists/article-3468765/DOMINIC-LAWSON-Operation-Fear-s-like-Operation-Pull-One.html
160
16
Chancellor: Over the past few days, Mr Osborne has adopted his most saturnine manner in an attempt to terrify the British people

With his pale skin and dark hair, and looking slimmer than ever, were he an actor Chancellor George Osborne might have been typecast as Count Dracula in those 1970s Hammer Horror films.

Over the past few days, Mr Osborne has adopted his most saturnine manner in an attempt to terrify the British people: to be precise, he is attempting to terrify us about the alleged horrors we will endure if, on June 23, we vote to leave the European Union.

This, for example lies behind his warning via the BBC’s political editor, Laura Kuenssberg, that ‘global economic turmoil’ means he ‘may need to undertake further reductions’ in government spending.

And what, Ms Kuenssberg asked, were the elements in that global economic turmoil? Osborne had one in mind: the prospect of Britain’s leaving the EU.

‘A British exit,’ he declared ‘would hurt people’s jobs, livelihoods and living standards — it’s deadly serious.’

A day later, with the behind-the-scenes political skills for which he is justly renowned, the Chancellor of the Exchequer managed to persuade the other leaders of the Group of 20 leading economies to include ‘the shock of a potential UK exit from the EU’ in their communique’s list of international problems.

Immediately after, Osborne pounced: ‘If it’s a shock to the world economy, imagine what it would do to Britain.’

There’s only one problem with this neatly choreographed bit of international politicking: it’s an absurd idea that Britain’s voting to leave the EU would be a ‘global economic shock’. How could it be, exactly?

Here is what happens if the British were to vote to leave in four months’ time. After a brief hiatus to allow Mr Cameron to consider whether he is the man to negotiate Britain’s exit or whether it would be better to resign and leave the job to someone more committed to that task, the UK would invoke Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty.

This is the official procedure under which countries may secede from the EU. It mandates a two-year period during which discussions about successor trading arrangements take place. During those two years, everything remains in place. Nothing changes, whether in terms of our obligations to the EU or its obligations to us. How big a ‘shock’ is that to the global economy?

Project Fear: Cameron declared yesterday that leaving the EU would be ‘the gamble of the century'

There will obviously be uncertainty as to what that successor arrangement will be. Will it be a series of bilateral treaties of the sort Switzerland negotiated after its people astounded Brussels by ignoring their own government’s firm referendum advice to join the EU? Under its system, Switzerland exports five times more per capita to the EU than Britain does. Not exactly an economic disaster.

On the other hand, the Swiss are struggling to persuade Brussels not to penalise them for implementing voter-mandated cuts in immigration from the EU. So perhaps Britain might prefer something closer to the trade deal that Canada has negotiated with the EU — an arrangement that makes no mention of ‘freedom of movement’.

And — the point that most concerns Eurosceptics — neither country has been required to put its own court and parliament under the sway of the European Court of Justice and the European Council of Ministers.

Finally, if no Free Trade agreement were negotiated during that two-year period — that is, if you believe Germany would not make sure a deal were cut with the biggest export market for its motor industry — we would fall back on the terms already in place under the World Trade Organisation.

Under those terms, the average weighted tariff on goods from outside the Single Market is 3.5 per cent. That’s much less than the currency fluctuation in any year: the sort of fluctuation that exists between sterling and the euro — you know, the currency which many of the businessmen now telling us we’d do much worse outside the EU said we would be mad not to join.

In a newspaper article yesterday, David Cameron argued that ‘falling back on the World Trade Organisation could be crippling for our industries as we’d have to accept tariffs that are sometimes as high as 50 per cent’. That’s a craftily-worded sentence. Which industries within the EU impose such penal tariffs on rivals from outside? Just one, which Mr Cameron carefully didn’t name: agriculture.

In other words, the Prime Minister is suggesting that a principal reason for remaining in the EU is to continue being part of the Common Agricultural Policy.

This, it’s worth spelling out, costs EU taxpayers about £50 billion a year in subsidies — and British taxpayers are the second-biggest national contributors to that monstrosity. I have nothing against the country’s biggest landowners, still less the Queen, but is it really a sensible use of taxpayers’ money to send half a million euros a year in CAP subsidies to Her Majesty?

Last week, Cameron claimed it was essential to stay in the EU because of ‘the prices in our shops. I think there’s a real risk that if we leave we would see higher prices.’

Yet food is, for the least well-off, the single biggest element in the household budget. Perhaps the PM should have a word with the woman who was the EU’s budget commissioner for many years, Dalia Grybauskaite, now the Lithuanian president. She raged that the Common Agricultural Policy forces consumers to pay ‘two or three times more for food than we would pay without the policy’.

Under what madcap inversion of all the laws of economic logic would Britain’s seceding from this grotesque form of agricultural protectionism be a risk to the ‘global economy’? And if the British family were to pay much less for its food, and Britain were to reclaim its billions of pounds a year spent funding the CAP across the Continent, how would this be a dreadful shock to the British economy?

Yet still, ramping up the rhetoric of Operation Fear, Cameron declared yesterday that leaving the EU would be ‘the gamble of the century’. When you think about it, this is most odd. Until very recently, he repeatedly implied he was not set on remaining in the EU, with the phrase ‘I rule nothing out’. If he wasn’t lying when he said that, he clearly can’t have thought leaving the EU to be a catastrophe.

But if Cameron really does believe it would be an unmitigated disaster, he must also admit to appalling irresponsibility, committing the nation to a referendum whose outcome could plunge not just Britain’s economy but also the world’s into chaos — and only for the sake of appeasing members of his own political party.

How’s that going, by the way?

Apocryphal: Albert Einstein never said, ‘If most of us are ashamed of shabby clothes and shoddy furniture, let us be more ashamed of shabby ideas and shoddy philosophies'

As Albert Einstein did not say...

A few hours after David Cameron had, with boorish condescension, told Jeremy Corbyn to ‘Do up your tie, wear a proper suit and sing the National Anthem’, the Labour leader tweeted: ‘If most of us are ashamed of shabby clothes and shoddy furniture, let us be more ashamed of shabby ideas and shoddy philosophies : Einstein.’

A telling retort — but Albert Einstein never said it.

Neither did he ever say: ‘It is the definition of insanity to do the same thing over and over again, expecting a different result.’ Yet scarcely a day goes by without someone using this phrase to denounce an opponent in argument and citing the greatest mind of the 20th century in support. Nor did Einstein say: ‘Not everything that can be counted counts, and not everything that counts can be counted.’

The purpose of these habitual misattributions is to make a remark seem more profound than it really is — and, by extension, the person uttering it.

There’s really no limit to its application: ‘As Einstein said, “More haste less speed.” ’ ‘As Einstein said, “If it’s free, take two.” ’ ‘As Einstein said, “It takes one to know one.” ’ Or even: ‘As Einstein said, “Do up your tie, wear a proper suit and sing the National Anthem.” ’

Republicans desperate to prevent Donald Trump getting the party’s Presidential nomination are putting it about that the billionaire has had contacts with organised crime. In fact, Trump was asked in a 2007 court case: ‘Have you ever before associated with individuals you knew were associated with organised crime?’

He answered: ‘Not that I know of.’

Trump has spent four decades in the New York construction and casino industries, so I’d be amazed if his firms hadn’t had such encounters.

Some years ago I was in that city, talking to a friend who had just paid an excessive amount on glass for a construction project.

At one point he told the supplier he might go to another firm, based outside New York.