http://classic.iol.co.za/tonight/movies/oscarssogrim-1.1991000
160
16
Alicia Vikander (R), winner for Best Supporting Actress for her role in "The Danish Girl", talks with Brie Larson, winner of the Oscar for Best Actress for her role in "Room". Picture: Mario Anzuoni/Reuters

Director Alejandro Inarritu, right, and actor Leonardo DiCaprio hold their Oscars after the end of the awards ceremony at the 88th Academy Awards in Hollywood. Picture: Mario Anzuoni/Reuters

Lady Gaga sings her Oscar-nominated song "Til It Happens to You" at the 88th Academy Awards in Hollywood. The powerful performance featured survivors of sexual abuse. Picture: Mario Anzuoni/Reuters

Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet talk after the end of the award ceremony at the 88th Academy Awards in Hollywood. Picture: Mario Anzuoni/Reuters

Oscar winners gather on stage after the end of the awards ceremony at the 88th Academy Awards in Hollywood. Picture: Mario Anzuoni/Reuters

Leonardo DiCaprio holds the Oscar for Best Actor for the movie "The Revenant" at the 88th Academy Awards in Hollywood. Picture: Mario Anzuoni/Reuters

Brie Larson reacts as she takes the stage to accept the Oscar for Best Actress for her role in "Room" at the 88th Academy Awards in Hollywood. Picture: Mario Anzuoni/Reuters

Brie Larson reacts as she takes the stage to accepts the Oscar for Best Actress for her role in "Room" from presenter Eddie Redmayne at the 88th Academy Awards in Hollywood. Picture: Mario Anzuoni/Reuters

Mexico's Alejandro Inarritu wins the Oscar for Best Director for the movie "The Revanant" at the 88th Academy Awards in Hollywood. Picture: Mario Anzuoni/Reuters

Composer Ennio Morricone, right, accepts the Oscar for Best Original Score for "The Hateful Eight" at the 88th Academy Awards in Hollywood. Picture: Mario Anzuoni/Reuters

Brie Larson (L) is greeted by actress Kate Winslet (R) and fellow nominee Cate Blanchett as they find their seats at the 88th Academy Awards in Hollywood. Picture: Mario Anzuoni/Reuters

Show host Chris Rock reveals that $65,243.00 was raised when Girls Scouts sold cookies to the Oscars audience at the 88th Academy Awards in Hollywood. Picture: Mario Anzuoni/Reuters

Sam Smith (R) and Jimmy Napes accept the Oscar for Best Song for "Writing's on the Wall" from the movie "Spectre" at the 88th Academy Awards in Hollywood, California February 28, 2016. REUTERS/Mario Anzuoni

Mark Rylance appears backstage with his award for best actor in a supporting role for his work in Bridge of Spies at the Oscars. Picture: Matt Sayles/Invision/AP

By Paul Eksteen

#OscarsSoGrim

With race boycotts and backlashes foremost in their minds, perhaps the Academy wasn’t in a mood to party. The PR line one has to tread during moments like these is never, ever, straight and narrow. As such, the biggest Academy Awards for 2016 were handed out to a selection of hard-hitting films with topics like bloody revenge and sexual abuse.

But, if they were intent on having a pity party, then host Chris Rock was never going to let them get away with it. He bookended his MC stint with “Hollywood is Racist” and “#BlackLivesMatter”. In between, he squeezed in a few digs at Will Smith, saying: “It's not fair that Will Smith was this good in 'Concussion and didn't get nominated. It's also not fair that Will was paid $20 million for 'Wild Wild West!”. Rock was at times brutal in the manner in which he picked apart American racial politics. “Welp, @chrisrock murdered the #oscars,” tweeted comedienne Amy Schumer.

The night, however, belonged to Leonardo di Caprio, finally welcomed into the warm embrace of the Academy after toughing it out with a bear and snow and ”injuns” in The Revenant. His brutal method acting expedition in the woods seemed destined to land him the Best Actor gong even before the film was released. Then again, Di Caprio had been cold shouldered so many times before, so perhaps he wasn’t going to take the win for granted.

His director/slave driver Alejandro G Inarritu probably can’t understand what the fuss is about. Revenant was his second Best Director win in a row, after his triumph with Birdman last year.

“I can’t believe this is happening! it is amazing to receive this award tonight. But it is more important to me to share it with the talented crazy crew members and cast. Leo you are The Revenant. Thank your for giving your very soul, your art, your life,” he enthused.

Clearly Inarritu has the juice. His Birdman collaborator Michael Keaton was involved in the event’s other big winner Spotlight.

Twitter fell in love with Keaton’s discreet fist pumping as Spotlight won Best Picture, as well as a Best Supporting Actor gong for Mark Ruffalo. Spotlight tells the story of a group of journalists from The Boston Globe who exposed the sexual abuse of young boys by catholic priests. Just hours before the cremony, Ruffalo, who had threatened to join in Oscars boycott over the lack of diversity at the Oscars, attended a Los Angeles protest demanding that the names of paedophile priests be released.

Brie Larson scooped the Best Actress award for Room, which was released in South African theatres last Friday. It is a harrowing tale of a woman and her 5-year-old son who find freedom after being held prisoner by some twisted tormentor.

Meanwhile, the Charlize Theron blockbuster Mad Max: Fury Road walked off with the biggest trophy haul, picking up six gongs in the various design and editing categories.