https://au.news.yahoo.com/thewest/wa/a/33020814/teen-girls-morley-home-invasion-terror/
173
17
Police are hunting for four men who broke into a family home, dragged a teenage girl by her hair and tried to sexually assault her in a violent home invasion.

Stop Video Replay 7 News: Teen girl's home invasion terror UP NEXT

VIDEO 7 News: Teen girl's home invasion terror

The 16-year-old girl fought off her attackers after the four men, who had covered their faces with scarves, broke into the Morley home through a rear glass door while she was watching television about 11pm yesterday.

The teenager, who cannot be identified for legal reasons, said two masked men stood over her and told her to stay quiet as they demanded her mobile phone.

She said she was scared and cried as the intruders searched for cash.

The teenager said she was pulled by the hair into another room and threatened with a knife when she told the intruders her parents’ friends were also there.

She said three of the intruders ransacked the home for about 20 minutes while she was held captive by the fourth offender.

The girl said she kicked off two of the intruders when one tried to sexually assault her and another tried to remove her clothes. It was then that the girl’s parents arrived home and disturbed the offenders, chasing them away.

A neighbour, Sinead, said her husband woke to the sound of screaming.

“He came to the front window, had a look out, and saw the man that lives next door just running across the street with a stick or a brush handle in his hand,” she said.

“I can only imagine it must have been absolutely horrifying, someone coming into your home like that. It shouldn’t happen.”

Detectives doorknocked nearby homes yesterday searching for home security vision footage to help identify the four intruders.

They are described as being young with dark skin and were wearing dark clothes and gloves.

Police say the offenders fled along Waratah Rd in a dark-coloured sedan.

Anyone with information should contact Crime Stoppers on 1800 333 000.