http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/defence/Pakistan-condemns-Indias-manhandling-of-its-diplomat-terms-spy-charge-as-false/articleshow/55092637.cms
173
17
NEW DELHI: Pakistan today condemned India’s action of declaring a Pakistani High Commission staff member as persona non grata . Pakistan also condemned the detention and "manhandling" of the diplomat by India for alleged spy activities on Indian armed forces. India, however, asserted that the staff member was treated with courtesy and he is the kingpin of a espionage racket.Pakistan also termed the charges against its member of the Pakistan High Commission as “false and unsubstantiated”."Pakistan condemns the Indian action of declaring Pakistan High Commission staff member as persona non grata," read a statement issued by Pakistan’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs Pakistan's High Commissioner in New Delhi was called in by the Indian Ministry of External Affairs this morning (27 October 2016) to convey the decision of the Indian government that one of the staff members of the High Commission has been declared persona non grata and should leave India by 29 October 2016, read the statement. "The Indian action has been accompanied by an extremely negative and orchestrated media campaign," says the statement."A staff member of the Pakistan High Commission in New Delhi was lifted by the Indian authorities yesterday (26 October 2016) on false and unsubstantiated charges. He was, however, released in about three hours on intervention by our High Commission. We condemn the detention and manhandling of our diplomatic official," says the statement."We reject the Indian allegations and deplore the Indian action which is indeed a violation of the Vienna Convention as well as the norms of diplomatic conduct especially in an already vitiated atmosphere. This act clearly reflects Indian actions to shrink diplomatic space for the working of Pakistan High Commission," the Pakistan Foreign Affairs ministry said.The Delhi Police yesterday had apprehended the Pakistan High Commission staff member, Mehmood Akhtar , with two alleged Indian spies, Maulana Ramzan Khan alias Hazrat and Subhash Jangir, both hailing from Rajasthan. The police stated Akhtar as an ISI agent, who had recruited Khan and Jangir to allegedly spy on Indian armed forces deployments along the India-Pakistan border in Gujarat and Rajasthan. The information collected was allegedly passed on to the High Commission.Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) spokesperson Vikas Swarup said, "Akhtar was not manhandled. In keeping with accepted norms of members of diplomatic missions, he was treated with utmost courtesy and was handed over to a diplomat of the Pakistan High Commission. It was Akhtar who resorted to subterfuge by concealing his real identity. When he was handed to pak hc he himself said that he had been treated well. None of this would have risen in the first place if he would not have indulged in espionage activities."On Pakistan terming the spy charges as espionage, Swarup said, “denial from Pakistan is something which has become characteristic.”Swarup also said Foreign Secretary S. Jaishankar strongly conveyed to the Pakistan High Commission Abdul Basit that the Pakistan High Commission must ensure that none of its members indulge in activities inimical to india or behave in a manner that is incompatible with their diplomatic status."We have definitely bused an espionage ring. And the ring leader has been asked to return to india within 48 hours," he said.