http://newsday.co.tt/crime_and_court/0,235108.html
173
17
Law student among three held for fraud

By AZARD ALI Thursday, October 27 2016

A 21-YEAR-OLD law student is among three persons who will appear at the San Fernando Magistrates’ court today on six counts of fraud.

The student, who is in her third year at the University of the West Indies in the Faculty of Law, was arrested yesterday along with her sister and a male relative at their home in central Trinidad, by fraud squad detectives led by Head of the Fraud Squad, Senior Supt Totaram Dhookie.



Acording to a police report, First Citizens Bank (FCB) in Couva, called in the fraud detectives and handed a certain document, purporting to be that of a job letter from the San Fernando City Corporation. The document bore the stamp of the corporation, but according to the police report, no such letter had been issued to the law student.



Fraud squad detectives reported that the corporation had confirmed that one of its stamps was stolen from an office where a 27-year-old relative of the law student worked.



The report stated that the letter was allegedly tendered at FCB’s Couva branch for the purpose of obtaining a loan.



Newsday learned that six charges have been laid against the law student, her sister and the male relative.



The charges are: larceny of a stamp; two charges of uttering a forged document; two charges of forgery and an charge of conspiracy to defraud.



The fraud squad detectives who conducted the investigations were Supt Kent Ghisyawan, Cpls Daren Badree; Sareal Bachu and Police Constable Kalil Hosein.



The charges were laid by Hosein.



Bail has not been granted to the thrio and up to yesterday they were in police custody.



They would be taken before Senior Magistrate Nanette Forde- John in the San Fernando Magistrates’ Court. The charges have been laid indictably.



A 69-year-old man is to appear at the Port-of-Spain Magistrates’ court today to answer a charge of fraud in which he is alleged to have tendered a deed to a Justice of the Peace, for the securing of bail, for an accused. The charge alleged that the deed was alreadyused on two previous occasions and was therefore null and void to be posted for bail.



The offence arose, a report stated, by the swearing to a declaration that the deed was “clean”.







