http://kfiam640.iheart.com/articles/local-news-465708/local-college-comes-to-the-rescue-15107555/
172
17
Long Beach City College is now offering assistance to students affected by the closure of ITT Technical Institute locations in the area. The college is reaching out to the displaced students while identifying LBCC academic and student services that can best support them.

Long Beach City College says it welcomes ITT students and is committed to meeting with individuals to identify how the college can best assist them in attaining their educational goals. Similar programs that might overlap include computer and office studies programs, electrical technology courses, advanced manufacturing and drafting classes, and business studies.

“We will do everything we can to accommodate the transition for affected students,” said LBCC Superintendent-President Eloy Oakley, “but it will require a case-by-case analysis of their educational goals and courses taken at ITT. LBCC is in contact with the U.S. Department of Education and will continue to work with state and federal officials to help students make the transition to one of our quality public colleges.”

ITT Tech’s managers ended classes at more than 130 U.S. schools on Tuesday, following a U.S. Department of Education decision to prevent students attending the for-profit schools from using federal student aid. Last month, the US Department of Education banned ITT from enrolling new students who rely on federal aid. The school was also on the government’s radar for keeping a low amount of money in reserve. “It is with profound regret that we must report that ITT Educational Services, Inc. will discontinue academic operations at all of its ITT Technical Institutes permanently after approximately 50 years of continuous service,” the institute said in a statement. “The actions of and sanctions from the U.S. Department of Education have forced us to cease operations of the ITT Technical Institutes, and we will not be offering our September quarter. We reached this decision only after having exhausted the exploration of alternatives, including transfer of the schools to a non-profit or public institution.”

LBCC will be hosting two workshops to provide ITT students with information on LBCC programs that may align with ITT coursework, credit by exam options, transcript evaluation process, applying for financial aid and an opportunity to speak with a counselor. The upcoming workshop will take place on:

Tuesday, September 27 from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. at the Pacific Coast Campus, Room LL206, 1305 East Pacific Coast Highway, Long Beach, CA 90806

Thursday, September 29 from 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. at the Liberal Arts Campus, Room L252, 4901 East Carson St., Long Beach, CA 90808

Students can sign up for one of these workshops by calling the LBCC Assessment Office at (562) 938-4049. Former ITT students can read the LBCC new student checklist to find out how to apply, or call (562) 938-4268 to schedule a time to meet with a counselor.