http://dfw.cbslocal.com/2016/11/03/more-safety-worries-for-arlington-school-community/
1712
17
Follow CBSDFW.COM: Facebook | Twitter

ARLINGTON (CBS11) – Arlington’s Wimbish Elementary sits at the corner of Randol Mill and Fielder—both heavily traveled streets.

It’s the same school where a child was snatched off of the street and then released last week. But parents tell CBS11 a suspected child predator is not their only worry: the worrisome mix of traffic and kids is constant.

“I see it all the time,” said mother Karen Diaz, “people on the cell phone! They can jump the curb and hit my kid!”

Parents said a school zone on Randol Mill would perhaps slow and refocus distracted drivers.

“I was walking on the sidewalk and it went by me fast… like it was about to hit me,” said 3rd grader David Gomez. “They keep speeding past you and it feels like they’re about to hit you.”

Even those like Gomez with parents walking nearby report close calls, but mostly it’s young children walking to and from school, watching out for even younger siblings.

“And they’re literally crossing midway,” added former Wimbish parent Chantill Owens.

Owens said she would drive her son to school because the walk was just too dangerous. Now, her commute to work takes her along the same road—and she’s still troubled by what she sees.

“They’re not even going all the way down. Because they’re kids and they’re not paying attention,” said Owens.

There is a school zone on Fielder and a crossing guard at the corner, but along Randol Mill traffic does not slow. There is no school zone. A city traffic engineer said that’s by design.

According to Paul Iwuchukwu, “The school zone is meant for people crossing the street… not walking alongside it. At the location where they are supposed to cross the street, there is a crossing guard there.”

And yet Thursday morning Owens said she watched as a car drove aggressively through the cross walk—inching into the intersection—even as the crossing guard attempted to walk children safely across.

“We we need a school zone,” said Owens.

(©2016 CBS Local Media, a division of CBS Radio Inc. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.)