http://www.politico.com/tipsheets/morning-shift/2016/11/welcome-to-jobs-day-217243
173
17
Welcome to jobs day

With help from Marianne LeVine and Cogan Schneier

WELCOME TO JOBS DAY: The final pre-election jobs report showed the economy added 161,000 jobs in October, the Labor Department reported today, down from 191,000 in September. The October jobs report was in line with that of previous months and is not likely to sway the election toward Hillary Clinton or Donald Trump.

Story Continued Below

Unemployment was 4.9 percent, down from September's 5 percent. Average private-sector earnings were up 10 cents over September, when they rose 8 cents. Wages were up 2.8 percent over October 2015. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had predicted the creation of about 178,000 jobs, an unemployment rate of 4.9 percent and an increase in hourly earnings of 0.3 percent. The payroll company ADP estimated Wednesday, based on its own records, that October job growth in the private sector was 147,000.

The jobs report followed news from the Commerce Department last week that GDP increased 2.9 percent during the third quarter of 2016, according to an advance estimate. That's well above the second quarter of 2016's 1.4 percent and the first quarter of 2016's 0.8 percent. The Commerce Department's second cut at estimating third quarter growth for 2016 will be released Nov. 29. More here.

GOOD MORNING. It's Friday, Nov. 4 and this is Morning Shift, POLITICO's daily tipsheet on labor and employment policy. Send tips, exclusives, and suggestions to mlevine@politico.com, cschneier@politico.com, thesson@politico.com, and tnoah@politico.com. Follow us on Twitter at @marianne_levine, @CoganSchneier, @tedhesson and @TimothyNoah1.

NLRB: TRUMP HOTEL MUST BARGAIN: With just four days until the election, what happens in Vegas (to Donald Trump) isn’t staying in Vegas, POLITICO Pro’s Cogan Schneier reports. The NLRB ruled Thursday that the Trump International Hotel Las Vegas violated the National Labor Relations Act by refusing to bargain with the union that represents more than 500 workers there in housekeeping, guest services, and food services.

Workers at the hotel — owned by Trump and casino mogul Phillip Ruffin — voted in December 2015 to affiliate with the Culinary Workers Union Local 226, a unit of UNITE HERE. In March 2016 the NLRB certified the Culinary Workers as the hotel workers’ representative. But the hotel refused to bargain with the union, a position the board found in violation of the National Labor Relations Act. In Thursday’s decision, the board ordered the hotel to recognize and bargain with the union, and to post to employees a notice of the unfair labor practice. More here.

SEIU MAKES FINAL GOTV PUSH: The SEIU is making its final electoral push in battleground states. Canvassers plan to knock on more than 1.4 million doors before polls close Tuesday. The union calls its organizing effort “the largest independent-expenditure program in SEIU history.”

SPEAKING OF SEIU: Nowadays, it’s clear that SEIU is all in for Hillary Clinton. But in a 2015 e-mail to campaign Chairman John Podesta and Campaign Manager Robby Mook, Clinton’s labor outreach director, Nikki Budzinski, expressed worry about the union’s endorsement process. “I’ve connected with SEIU Intl today and they have indicated that they are no longer on a September endorsement path,” Budzinski wrote in the email (we know from the WikiLeaks release of Podesta’s hacked email account). “While September was never confirmed, it is a departure from previous conversations.” Mook replied: “This is concerning. We should try to get to the bottom of this.” SEIU endorsed Clinton in November.

MORE ON MAYORKAS FOR DHS: James Pasco, executive director of the Fraternal Order of Police, tells Morning Shift he thinks Alejandro Mayorkas would be an excellent choice for DHS secretary. Yesterday we reported on chatter at the left-leaning (and Clinton-connected) Center for American Progress over the possibility of a Mayorkas nomination. Pasco, whose organization represents more than 330,000 law enforcement officers, lauded Mayorkas for his accessibility and “deep commitment to law enforcement.” Pasco said the former deputy secretary received a warm reception last month at a conference for police chiefs in San Diego. “He got about a three-minute standing ovation,” Pasco said. “He’s very, very popular with local law enforcement.”

Another name on Pasco’s list: Gil Kerlikowske, commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection. Kerlikowske served as Seattle’s police chief before taking over the Office of National Drug Control Policy in 2009. Four years later he became CBP commissioner. “He’s kind of a cop’s cop,” Pasco said. “His career was very similar to [former New York City Police Commissioner] Ray Kelly in terms of the kind of jobs he’s had.” Side note: the FOP endorsed Donald Trump in September.

OR SHOULD IT BE ARPAIO? Hillary Clinton tossed out her own prediction about who Trump would choose as DHS secretary, CBS News reports. Speaking to a crowd at Arizona State University Wednesday in Tempe, Clinton said Trump’s “top adviser on immigration” was Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio. Arpaio has campaigned for the Republican nominee … and currently faces criminal charges. “Just last week, Sheriff Arpaio was officially charged with criminal contempt of court because he refused to stop racially profiling Latinos,” Clinton said. “Now imagine Donald Trump appointing the sheriff our next secretary of Homeland Security to oversee the massive deportation force.” More from CBS News here.

Who will be the next DHS chief under Clinton or Trump? Send us your thoughts.

SEEKING ‘GOOD FAITH’ TALKS IN PHILLY: Philadelphia’s transit strike enters its fourth day today, with worries growing daily about weakened Democratic turnout on Election Day. Willie Brown, president of Transport Workers Union Local 234, sounded ornery in a statement issued Thursday. “[SEPTA Board Chairman] Pat Deon must have dusted off a news release from some other contract negotiation if he claims SEPTA ‘has bargained in good faith’ … Where has he been? SEPTA’s bargaining team and high-priced outside lawyers stonewalled contract talks for months prior to the strike.” SEPTA has said it could seek an injunction to force employees to work Election Day, but so far it hasn’t requested one, the Philadelphia Inquirer reported. Meanwhile, the Billy Penn blog interviewed bartenders (good source for tips). They think the strike could end on Friday with “some bigwig” swooping in to resolve everything. The latest from the Inquirer here.

UCSF WORKERS TRAIN FOREIGN REPLACEMENTS: A group of information technology workers at the University of California will lose their jobs, and before they go they’ll be required to train their foreign replacements. “In a move that could spread to other universities,” Louis Hansen of the Mercury News reports, “about 80 information tech workers at UC San Francisco are facing layoffs and have begun training their replacements — lower-paid tech workers from an Indian outsourcing firm.” Most of the outsourced work will be performed in India, but “IT staff may be brought to the UCSF campus from overseas on H-1B visas, according to public documents.” H-1B guest-worker visas are granted to high-skilled foreign workers on the premise — clearly faulty in this instance — that no Americans can be found to perform the work in question. Increasingly H-1B workers are permitted to replace skilled U.S. workers through the loophole of employing the guest workers through a contractor.

Few people are in a better position to understand how this practice mocks the intent of the H-1B program than UC President Janet Napolitano, who was DHS secretary in 2009-13. Ron Hira of Howard University pointed out in an email to Morning Shift last month that Napolitano testified at a 2009 congressional hearing about potential H-1B abuses. “Our top obligation is to American workers, making sure American workers have jobs,” she said at the time. “From an enforcement standpoint, my priority is to make sure that there is not fraud occurring within the H–1B program at all.” Hira told the Mercury News that he isn’t aware of other universities taking a similar approach, and said “at some point, you start to cross these ethical lines.” Rep. Zoe Lofgren, a California Democrat, sent a letter to Napolitano this week asking her to reverse the decision, the News reports. More from the Mercury News here.

MAKING THE JOBS REPORT: Donald Trump has called the 5 percent unemployment rate “one of the biggest hoaxes in American politics.” But the Labor Department goes to great lengths to keep its data free of political influence, Patricia Cohen reports in the New York Times. On the monthly jobs report, “there are some basic ground rules ... that prevent the process from spitting out any answers you please …. The people who generate the numbers are all career civil servants who have churned out reports for both Republicans and Democrats. And their basic methods do not swerve from one administration to the next. If the figures are biased, they are consistently biased in the same way regardless of what party is in office.” More here.

ONE JANITOR’S HUGE OVERTIME HAUL: The median pay for janitors in 2015 was $27,000. Liang Zhao Zhang made ten times that amount last year as a janitor for the Bay Area Rapid Transit system, all thanks to overtime pay, the Christian Science Monitor reports. In 2015, Zhang worked more than 4,000 hours and took home $276,121.07 in salary plus benefits. Context from the Monitor: “The Fair Labor Standards Act mandates that all workers who receive an hourly wage must be paid at least 1.5 times their normal hourly rate for any hour they work beyond an ordinary 40-hour work week. This currently does not apply to most salaried workers who perform some administrative work and receive at least $455 a week, though a new rule may increase that pay threshold to $913 a week on December 1.” Zhang won’t be affected by the new overtime rule since he’s an hourly employee (and therefore already overtime-eligible). More here.

COFFEE BREAK

—“Report: Megyn Kelly memoir details sexual harassment by Roger Ailes,” from POLITICO

—“At Trader Joe’s, Good Cheer May Hide Complaints,” from The New York Times

—“Who’s the Boss? Amazon Contractors Sue to Find Out,” from Bloomberg Businessweek

—“The workers who have the most at stake in this election aren’t white men,” from the Washington Post

—“How the Workplace Scheduling Bill Was 'Twisted, Perverted, and Mischaracterized,'” from the Washington City Paper

—“Is the Gig Economy Cannibalizing or Creating Jobs? Here’s Some Early Evidence,” from The Wall Street Journal

—“Gov. LePage tells voters to say 'No' to all referendum questions,” from WGME

—“Uber faces lawsuit from courier claiming employee status,” from PCWorld

—“Wells Fargo Faces Scrutiny for Black Marks on Ex-Employee Files,” from The New York Times

THAT’S ALL FOR MORNING SHIFT.