http://www.philstar.com/nation/2016/09/22/1626042/ombudsman-suspends-batangas-mayor-zamboanga-gov
173
17
MANILA, Philippines – The Office of the Ombudsman has suspended the mayor of Lipa City, Batangas and the governor of Zamboanga del Norte.

Mayor Meynardo Sabili was found guilty of conduct prejudicial to the best interest of the service, the ombudsman said in an eight-page decision released yesterday.

Records show that at least 10 persons led by Oscar Camerino hired Sabili as their lawyer in a land dispute in exchange for a 50,000-square-meter property in 2010.

The complainants alleged Sabili harassed them by filing a civil suit even though he had not been helpful to them. They said Sabili, accompanied by armed men, went to the property on July 15, 2012 and threatened them.

Sabili denied the allegations, adding that he could no longer be charged in view of the Aguinaldo doctrine because he was reelected in 2013.

The anti-graft court said Sabili could not invoke the Aguinaldo doctrine, citing the Supreme Court ruling in the case of Makati Mayor Jejomar Erwin Binay Jr. The SC said the ombudsman could proceed with the findings of administrative liability, which shall be “prospective in application.”

Nation ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1

“Respondent’s...threatening remarks while being escorted by armed men and introducing himself as Lipa City mayor was undoubtedly, a haughty display of influence and power,” the court added.

Sabili filed a petition before the Court of Appeals to stop the enforcement of the suspension order.

Meanwhile, Zamboanga del Norte Gov. Roberto Uy was suspended for one month for failing to immediately respond to requests for payment of back wages of an administrative assistant.

It took two months before Uy told the complainant that the claims had been referred to the provincial legal officer, Ombudsman Conchita Carpio-Morales said on Tuesday.

Morales said Republic Act 6713 mandates public officials and employees to respond to letters, telegrams and other communications sent to their office within 15 working days from their receipt. The reply must contain the action taken on the request, she added.