http://www.express.co.uk/news/uk/712941/Army-sex-attacker-jailed-sexting-a-15-year-old-girl-teenager
173
17
FERRARI PRESS Gareth Andrews, 45, was said to have persistently manipulated the teenager

Gareth Andrews, 45, was said to have persistently manipulated the teenager into a corrupt relationship after contacting her through BBM and WhatsApp. He incited her to “explore herself” sexually and sent photos of his exposed penis, saying it “would be hers” once she was 16. Andrews also talked of leaving his sick wife, for whom he is a full-time carer, and starting a family together.

He even spoke of the risk of going to prison for what he was doing. Maidstone Crown Court heard yesterday that Andrews had already been jailed for 15 months in 1989 for two separate attacks on young women, one just 15, and within half an hour of each other. He was just 19 and stationed with the Army in Aldershot when he grabbed a 19-year-old from behind while she walked through a park at night. He fondled her breasts and put a hand between her legs.

GETTY Andrews, 45, was convicted at Maidstone Crown Court

The younger victim was pushed to the ground and said to have been threatened with a knife before Andrews fondled her breasts, took off her clothes and underwear and removed his own clothing to expose his erect penis.

You took the opportunity to groom the girl and abuse the trust she put in you Judge Julian Smith

He ran off when a member of the public walked past but was later arrested, convicted of two offences of indecent assault and jailed for 15 months in 1989. Andrews, now of Kerry Avenue, Ipswich, Suffolk, contacted his latest victim in 2014. They then exchanged thousands of messages “of a highly sexual nature” over that summer, with as many as 1,586 in one week alone. Police also found 49 images of the girl on his phone, some of her in her bra and 11 described as indecent. After he received the pictures he sent the girl gifts including a teddy bear, flowers and jewellery.

FERRARI PRESS A father-of-six has previous convictions for two sex attacks while in the Army

Andrews, who sobbed through much of his sentencing hearing, admitted causing or inciting a child to engage in sexual activity between August 1 and October 1 2014. He was supported in court by his wife, Teresa, who suffers from the debilitating illness fibromyalgia and has difficulty even dressing herself. She is standing by him and even wrote a letter which Judge Julian Smith described as “moving and distressing” in terms of the impact her husband's depraved crime had had on her. But he remarked she had also “found excuses” for him when there were none. Jailing Andrews, formerly from Gravesend in Kent, he said: "It was your choice, your decision and your manipulation. You took the opportunity to groom the girl and abuse the trust she put in you.” Andrews will have to sign the sex offenders' register for 10 years on his release and be subject to a sexual harm prevention order for the same length of time.

GETTY Police found 49 images of the girl on his phone, some of her in her bra and 11 described as indecent