http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/top-tory-warns-200-labour-8727208
36
3
Jeremy Corbyn's party is set to be hit harder than Theresa May's as the map is redrawn

A top Tory is warning 200 Labour seats could be hit in a shake-up the opposition has branded "partisan gerrymandering".

New analysis by peer Robert Hayward shows Labour will bear the brunt of a constituency boundary review which cuts Britain's 650 MPs to 600.

Jeremy Corbyn 's party has protested for months about the changes - because they will not count a surge of 2million voters who signed up in the last year.

Now Lord Hayward, a respected expert and architect of the Tories' strategy ahead of this autumn's report, has confirmed Labour fears.

He claims Labour is set to lose between 25 and 30 seats - up to 13% of its total in Parliament - while the Tories will lose between 10 and 15, less than 5%.

Getty Images Theresa May's party is set to lose less than 5% of its current seats

About 170 more Labour seats would be altered in some form, with many becoming more marginal than they are now.

Lord Hayward told the Guardian the shake-up could force Labour MPs to "compete against each other for reselection".

A spokesman for Labour chief whip Rosie Winterton said: "Simply put, this is gerrymandering".

He added the analysis was "further evidence that the sole motivation for these changes is a partisan plan to give the Tories’ an unfair advantage at the expense of democracy."

Lord Hayward warned there was a disproportionate involvement in the process by political parties, who will lobby at public hearings to keep loyal voters on their patch.

He told the Mirror: "All the parties use the system... I would wish that more individuals use the system to make their representations.

"I would hope the representations go way beyond political parties to individual communities."

Getty Almost 2million people signed up to vote in the year ahead of the EU referendum

But he insisted it was right to base the review on last year's 44.7million voters, not the 46.5million who'd signed up by the EU referendum .

He cautioned against reviewing the numbers "ad infinitum" and said: "Parliament decided what the [cut-off] date would be and there is a process that decides that.

"It's a process that we've had for over a century, by which constituencies are rebalanced on a regular basis to take into account population changes."

The review, to be published in 2018 by four independent Boundary Commissions, is forcing constituencies to be more equal by limiting their population to within 5% of the 74,769 average.

Lord Hayward said Labour will be worse-hit because it has many smaller-than-average seats, especially in Wales, the north east and "parts of the M62 corridor".

But the numbers are now out of date after a surge of young voters, many of whom live in inner-city seats, were encouraged to sign up for the EU referendum .

And Labour says the removal of Britain's 73 MEPs after Brexit will pile more work into MPs' in-trays, meaning the shake-up should be reconsidered entirely.

Other parties, including the SNP , will also be hit, the analysis says. Individual seats were not named.