http://www.business-standard.com/article/news-ani/congress-jd-u-back-centre-s-move-to-isolate-pakistan-116092100275_1.html
172
17
The (United) and on Wednesday backed the Centre's move to diplomatically isolate Pakistan, saying they would support the initiatives of the ruling dispensation at the Center which are in interest of the nation.

The comments came three days after the faced one of its biggest attacks on its units in recent times, the Uri terror attack, leaving 18 army jawans dead and shocked the entire country.

leader P.L. Punia told ANI that the Pakistani Army is completely involved in the Uri incident and if, Indian Government takes any action against them, they are right.

"Whatever happened in Uri, where 18 brave soldiers got killed, is a very saddening situation and even more tragic is that Government is directly involved. This topic in itself is a very serious issue as Prime Minister Modi also chaired a high-level meeting and whatever would be the decision should be in interest of nation and security of the nation and party will always support these initiatives," Punia said.

"After the Uri incident, whatever steps the government would initiate, be it at diplomatic level or bilateral relations with other countries.they should try to isolate Pakistan, which should be their priority and after that the most rigid step should be initiated. If we look at the entire incident, terrorists came and Pakistani Army is fully involved in the same," he added.

Resonating similar sentiments, JD (U) secretary-general K.C. Tyagi said that government is responsible for the dastardly incident.

"Behaviour of Government and its army indicates as if they are preparing for some war. In 48 hours, their army or their terrorists, who so ever it is, are working according to the directions of the Government," Tyagi said.

"They are challenging our democracy and now whatever steps the government takes for the security of our country, we are with them," he added.

Earlier, Prime Minister Modi on Monday gave an assurance of going after the perpetrators of the deadly Uri attack and further gave the green signal to diplomatically isolate at every international grouping.

According to sources, India is to present all actionable evidence against if required at international bodies.

The Indian Permanent Mission is to issue a statement taking on Islamabad soon after Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif will make his speech at the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA).

Evidence of Pakistan's hand in Uri attack i.e. GPS tracker movements that go back to starting point in Pakistan, Pashto literature, Army marked arms will be given to Islamabad at the DGMO level, sources add.

has, however, flatly refused New Delhi's claims of Islamabad's involvement in the Uri terror attack, stating that it has become India's traditional tendency to point fingers on them after each terrorist attack.

Director General of Military operation Lt. Ranbir Singh yesterday said that the four terrorists, who attacked the military base in Jammu and Kashmir's Uri, belonged to Pakistan's banned terror outfit Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM).

(This story has not been edited by Business Standard staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)