http://www.nytimes.com/2016/10/06/t-magazine/fashion/theyskens-dior-saint-laurent-new-designers-paris-fashion-week.html
13
1
Photo

The focus of the spring/summer 2017 Paris Fashion Week was undoubtedly, relentlessly, on the new. New labels, new designers at houses, lots of new clothes, a few new ideas. You may wind up asking: “What’s new?” The last five years have been characterized by that situation. Newness is nothing new.

Yet there hasn’t been so much of it in a single Parisian Fashion Week for 70 years. Fittingly, that’s the anniversary the house of Christian Dior is celebrating come next year — the anniversary of the founder’s “New Look,” the contemporary term for Dior’s wasp-waisted, full-skirted silhouette that, in its outright defiance of wartime strictures, transformed the way the world looked. The evening following its spectacular unveiling, the artist Christian Bérard allegedly whispered to Dior: “Tomorrow begins the anguish of living up to, and if possible surpassing, yourself.”

But unlike spring/summer 1947, the spring/summer 2017 season in Paris wasn’t about a single creative statement. Rather, it was about the diverse debuts of a number of designers, seeking either to refine or to redefine the houses they’ve been tasked with helming. That included Anthony Vaccarello at Saint Laurent, Bouchra Jarrar at Lanvin, Pierpaolo Piccioli’s first solo show at Valentino and his former designer partner Maria Grazia Chiuri’s opening gambit for Dior.

And it was a week bookended by Olivier Theyskens’s return to the runway under his own name, after a 15-year hiatus — and by Justin O’Shea’s departure from Brioni less than six months after his appointment (a tenure rivaled in its brevity only by Lindsay Lohan’s 2009 turn at the house of Ungaro). If the first marks a triumph against odds seen as a victory for the creative, the second demonstrates the capricious nature of the industry — much-feted Theyskens versus ill-fated O’Shea.

Of course, O’Shea wasn’t a designer as such — with negligible skills aside from dressing himself in an eye-catching manner and, perhaps, knowing the sort of suit other peacocks may pay good money to own. His appointment was seen in much the same light as Lohan’s. Nevertheless, the speed of his departure, after the showing and selling of a single collection, highlights how capricious fashion has become. It’s never been easier to shift from in to out. That’s new.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Maybe that’s why these opening acts were, on the whole, uneven and apprehensive, reflecting aesthetics still to be clearly defined via advertising campaigns, editorials and the all-important impact of the clothes hitting rails. Designers were treading cautiously. For example, at Lanvin, Bouchra Jarrar married the clean lines and luxurious minimalism of her aesthetic (which is still nascent, given the slow development of her own brand over half a decade of haute couture-focused clothes) with the disco-tinged coquettishness left behind by Alber Elbaz. He was by no means the first creative director of Lanvin (notable predecessors included Claude Montana and Antonio Castillo), but his revival of the label stuck around the longest. This collection was a clever first step, although it wound up focusing on a world post-cocktail and precoital, which felt limited.

Anthony Vaccarello’s Saint Laurent was decidedly postcoital. Or maybe midcoitus, with dresses tugged up legs and off shoulders, the model Binx Walton’s nipple bedazzled and exposed by a curvy leather frock. Vaccarello’s focus was sharp, as were the best bits of his tailoring and those racy, leggy dresses. Models’ bodies were peppered with bits of Yves Saint Laurent paraphernalia, like heels shaped in the house’s Cassandre logo, tasseled ’70s earrings and handbags shaped like the Opium bottle (though those were cut from the show). Sex sells, we’re often told — and though Vaccarello’s image seemed hard-core, it was actually a soft start for the designer, who carried on a blueprint established by Hedi Slimane. Saint Laurent is one of those clever houses that hammers home the visual of the show with a fast-paced advertising campaign rollout: Vaccarello’s minidresses are making a big impact on billboards and buses across Paris. His first collection showed that Vaccarello could tussle with the bones of YSL and come up with something that felt both relevant and reverent. But being unique is the next big challenge. He’s shown he can pay homage; but what can Vaccarello do that’s new?

Newness is the obsession of Dior — perhaps because the house’s designers are forever trying to replicate the seismic, once-in-a-lifetime shift that Monsieur Dior once achieved. Chiuri, by contrast, looked backward: to Dior himself, like everyone does, but also to the house’s other creative directors, like Gianfranco Ferre’s Italian bravissimo (Chiuri is Italian too, with a similar background in alta moda), and to John Galliano’s pop-cultural obsessions, like Fly Girls and the rapper Lauryn Hill. That fusion sounds odd — in fact, it was less about fusing than juxtaposing, like bricolage, as a way of leading to newness. That meant an arresting contrast of exposed, Dior-branded elastic strapping brassieres and panties, like those often flashed in the ’90s by Marky Mark, under otherwise straightforwardly pretty tulle dresses. The clever thing here was that Chiuri embraced an entire archive of material, rather than just relying on Dior’s not-so-New Look as a template.

Chiuri is a woman — which is, perhaps, why she didn’t want to corset and pad and otherwise mold her models in the label’s retrograde midcentury silhouette. Or perhaps she was simply trying to find her own “New Look,” something that felt similarly alien, and yet absolutely right for the times in which we live. It’s a work in progress: She shoots her first campaign in a week’s time, and her all-important first haute couture collection will be shown in January.

Back to Olivier Theyskens, whose clothes have perpetually seemed from another time, trespassing on the present. His latest show — a low-key affair, showed to an audience of less than a hundred, with hair and makeup completed in Theyskens’s own apartment — also felt from another time. Namely the ’90s, when creativity abounded and designers tugged strings and lived on shoestrings to make their dreams into our realities. This wasn’t pie-in-the-sky stuff: You can’t go within four miles of a pie if you ever want to fit into Theyskens’s slipstream bias chiffons, his corseted bodices beneath high-rise black pants, or the closing duo of ball gowns. Those were nothing new for him. But they looked great. So who cares? There’s a lesson for designers everywhere there.