http://dfw.cbslocal.com/2016/09/21/man-who-tried-to-meet-minor-for-sex-gets-10-years/
173
17
Follow CBSDFW.COM: Facebook | Twitter

FORT WORTH (CBSDFW.COM) — A 48-year-old man, most recently from north Texas, Brian Dale Prim, was sentenced yesterday to 10 years in federal prison, following his guilty plea in May 2016 to an indictment charging one count of enticement of a minor.

According to documents filed in the case, on December 21, 2015, Prim responded to a Craigslist ad entitled, “Need some young company, I’m here?” The ad read, “I’m bored and looking to chill with some cool dude. I’m very young and cool.” At the time, Prim did not know that an officer with the Fort Worth Police Department’s Crimes Against Children Unit was working in an undercover capacity at a motel in Fort Worth and had posted the ad.

Prim responded to the ad and asked the undercover officer, who he thought was a 13-year-old girl, to send him a picture. The undercover officer sent a photo. The conversation between Prim and the undercover officer posing as the 13-year-old continued to become more sexual and Prim provided his phone number to the undercover officer so “she” could text him. Ensuing text messages, sexually graphic in nature, continued, and Prim asked if he could call.

Prim called, and posing as the 13-year-old girl, another Fort Worth police officer answered the phone. Prim and the undercover officer chatted, decided to meet, and Prim described the sexual acts he intended on doing with the 13-year-old. Early on in the text messaging exchange, Prim was told that the 13-year-old girl lived in a Fort Worth motel. Prim requested that the “girl” stay on the phone with him until he pulled in the driveway. While on the phone, Prim stated he was wearing a hoody, gym pants, and a TCU ball cap. Once he arrived at the hotel wearing the described clothing, the undercover officer gave Prim the room number. After Prim parked, he knocked on the motel room door and was arrested.

(©2016 CBS Local Media, a division of CBS Radio Inc. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.)