http://www.msn.com/en-gb/news/uknews/mass-brawl-in-erith-shocking-footage-emerges-of-fight-between-100-schoolchildren/ar-BBwnnbt
173
17
© Evening Standard The footage shows a woman trying to intervene. Shocking footage has emerged of up to 100 schoolchildren brandishing “knives and bats” in a mass brawl in a south east London park.

The horrifying clip shows a group of around 10 children kicking and beating each other with sticks as a woman tries to intervene.

One child is lying on the ground and unable to get up in what appears to be a school playground as the crowd swarms around.

Two people were rushed to hospital and six others have been arrested after the violence which unfolded between young people in Northumberland Heath near Erith yesterday afternoon.

The Met sent officers from the Territorial Support Group, dogs and a helicopter to deal with the unexpected fight which spilled out into surrounding roads.



Police said the two people's injuries are not life-threatening.

One witness, who asked not to be named, told the Standard: “It was just absolute pandemonium. There were kids screaming at each other.”

She said: “It was just scary. It was school kids, basically, all in their uniforms, with hoods up and lots with their faces covered up. Some had knives and bats and who knows what.



© Provided by Independent Print Limited “There were a hell of a lot of people very concerned about it. People were out there with their children and dog walkers who didn’t know which way to go.

“It shouldn’t be happening but it did happen and there's nothing Joe Bloggs can do about it.”

A spokesman for the Met Police confirmed they had been called to the park at 5.40pm after “reports of a large fight between a group of youths”.

He said: “Two individuals suffered non-life threatening injuries.

“They were taken to a south London hospital by London Ambulance Service to be treated for their injuries.

“Officers are still in the area to provide reassurance.

“Around six individuals were arrested and are in custody at south London police stations.”