http://www.express.co.uk/news/uk/702051/romanian-migrant-jailed-rapped-woman-robbed-elderly-mcdonalds-crown-court-gabriel-lupu
173
17
SUSSEX POLICE A Romanian migrant was jailed after raping and robbing a 69-year-old woman

Predatory Gabriel Lupu had been in Britain for just three months before subjecting the vulnerable women to a humiliating attack off the street. Lupu, 23, who does not speak English, found the confused 69-year-old wandering the streets alone before viciously attacking her.

SUSSEX POLICE Lupu had been in Britain for just three months before violently attacking the woman

Yesterday a judge was so sickened by the crime the valet was jailed for 10 years and told he would be kicked out of the country once his sentence had been served for the “appalling offences”. The woman, who suffers from schizophrenia, had travelled from her home in Brighton to nearby Worthing on May 8. She spent the day wandering about the seaside town and missed the last bus.

GETTY Lupu yesterday sat motionless at Hove Crown Court

This sort of scenario is the sort of priority the Government should be addressing post Referendum Diane James

The woman, who cannot be named, decided to wait until McDonalds opened at 6am to eat before catching the first bus home. Wearing a jumper and jeans Lupu yesterday sat motionless at Hove Crown Court as CCTV pictures showed him lurking near the seafront in the early hours. He was assisted by an interpreter at the court. Footage showed him approach and talk to the woman for 13 minutes. Lupu, who was working at a car wash in the town then tried to snatch her handbag and move her towards an unlit car park.

Fourteen minutes later he was shown running away. He stole £200 before returning to dump the handbag. Judge Shani Barnes, honorary recorder of Brighton and Hove, said: “This is an extraordinary callous case. You moved her into an alleyway and perpetrated two terrifying offences against her, humiliating her in the dark, alone and without anyone to assist her. “You are dangerous. My task is to protect the public.”

GETTY Ukip leadership candidate Diane James said: 'His sentence makes a mockery of UK justice.'

Yesterday it emerged that Lupu’s parents had spotted their son in a social media appeal and told him to return to the UK from Romania where he had been visiting family. At first he denied the attack in the early hours but later pleaded guilty to rape and robbery. While in custody Lupu’s brother, who was in court yesterday, brought him clothes, including jeans and shoes identical to those seen on CCTV from the morning of the attack. His DNA was found on the victim’s clothes and discarded handbag. Although he pleaded guilty he still maintains he recalls nothing about the incident.

The court heard that Lupu, who has no previous convictions, told probation officers he was concerned about what his family would think, adding: “If I was going to rape someone it would be someone my own age.” Less than 20 minutes after the woman had been raped she reported the attack to police. Lupu was arrested at Ben’s Car Wash in Worthing after a tip off. Prosecutor Richard Barton said the victim’s children said she had changed from being staunchly independent and energetic. Now she was more irritable and “untrusting” of people, particularly men.