http://www.tribune.net.ph/metro/stop-sale-of-jewelry-cleaners-with-cyanide
1712
17
Answering the call of a toxics watch group, Manila Mayor Joseph “Erap” Estrada yesterday ordered the City Health Office (CHO) to launch a crackdown on local jewelry shops that are selling silver jewelry cleaners containing the deadly cyanide compound.

Estrada said City Ordinance No. 8178 passed in 2008 prohibits the retail of all metal and jewelry cleaners containing cyanide. Violators are fined P5,000 or a one-year imprisonment.

“We will enforce the city ordinance against the selling of these cyanide-containing silver cleaners, and the silver polish itself, we will get rid of it immediately. This product is lethal,” Estrada said after the EcoWaste Coalition urged mayors and local health and police chiefs to crack down on vendors of silver jewelry cleaners.

Last August 20, the group conducted a “test buy” and managed to purchase silver cleaning products in a shopping mall in Quiapo, in a beads and accessories store on Villalobos Street, and in another silver jewelry store on Carriedo Street, proving that such harmful merchandise is still being openly sold despite government regulations against it.

Estrada directed City Health Officer Benjamin Yson to coordinate with the Manila Police District (MPD) in conducting surprise raids on the erring business establishments selling unregistered silver cleaners.

“We will continuously monitor these stores to make sure that silver cleaners are not sold for household use. It’s supposed to be for limited industrial use only. Violators will be duly penalized,” Estrada warned.

According to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the presence of cyanide in the silver cleaning products could pose imminent risks leading to serious poisoning or death.

“I urge jewelry buyers to be vigilant and make sure to check the product details, if you were offered this product, inform us immediately so that these sellers will be apprehended,” Yson, for his part, said.

Cyanide can be easily absorbed by the body, making it more critical to people who have touched, used, or inhaled it, he pointed out.

Moreover, FDA advised the public to avoid purchasing such polish without instructions written in English or Filipino.

Unknown to many, in 2006 this reporter almost lost his three-year-old son Pat Jr. when his nanny who was cleaning her silver jewelry left the boy alone at the table with the silver cleaner placed in small mineral water bottle.

The boy mistook the silver cleaner for water because the substance resembled the clear water character of the said silver cleaner and drank it. After a few seconds, the boy fainted and was rushed to the UST hospital for first aid treatment and subsequently transferred to the Philippine General Hospital upon the advice of experts and was admitted to the Toxicology Department.

Luckily after a few days at the intensive care unit, the boy miraculously recovered.

Two cyanide-poisoning deaths were reported in Manila in 2013 and 2015. The first one was Kristel Tejada, then a freshman student at UP Manila, and the second was Alfred Cardeno, a student of the Pamantasan ng Lungsod ng Maynila.

Tejada and Cardeno were both 16 years of age at the time of their deaths in March 2013 and September 2015, respectively.

Based on police data, most suicide cases were caused by drinking silver cleaner due to its easy accessibility buying it over the counter.



