http://www.philstar.com/cebu-news/2016/08/20/1615313/cidg-nabs-high-ranking-npa-leader
173
17
CEBU, Philippines - A high-ranking leader of the New People’s Army was arrested in Cebu City yesterday by the Criminal Investigation and Detection Group.

Amelia Pond, whom police also identified with a psuedo-name Adelfa Toledo, was arrested after attending an activity with the Rural Missionaries of the Philippines in Barangay Lahug in uptown Cebu City.

CIDG-7 director, Sr. Supt. Marlon Tayaba, said Amelia alias Adelfa Toledo, 64, was arrested inside a taxi along Archbishop Reyes Avenue.

The arrest around 1 p.m. yesterday prompted the militant group Bayan Central Visayas to hold a protest rally in front of Camp Sotero Cabahug.

Bayan secretary general Jaime Paglinawan believed that the arrest was illegal because the warrant of arrest issued by the court was for Adelfa Toledo and not for Amelia Pond. The group is asking the police for her immediate release.

The arrest warrant against Toledo was for double murder and frustrated murder issued by Compostela Valley Regional Trial Court Judge Virginia Tehano-Ang last January 22, 2015.

Freeman ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch:

Pressed for comment on the effect of the arrest to the upcoming peace talks with the National Democratic Front, Tayaba said they are merely implementing a warrant of arrest as a normal police operation.

The criminal case against Toledo was in relation to the deaths of barangay councilors Florencio Guay and Roberto Kapangpangan of Ngan, Compostela Valley Province last August 7, 2000.

The CIDG information sheet showed that Amelia Pond is an Executive Committee Member of the Southern Mindanao Regional Committee of the NPA. Pond is also Second Deputy Secretary and member of the Komiteng Hukom of the Davao Oriental Provincial Committee of the NPA.

Tayaba clarified that Pond was not arrested for being an NPA leader but for the warrant of arrest issued by the court for a criminal case.

Reportedly confiscated from Pond were several ID cards, some of which bearing the name Adelfa Toledo and the others Amelia Pond.

Bayan said that the ID cards were placed inside Pond’s bag by the arresting policemen.

Tayaba said that Pond was a subject to several months of surveillance operations. She is highly mobile and the right timing happened yesterday afternoon, said the police official.

Tayaba also denied it was the police who placed the ID cards inside Pond’s shoulder bag. (FREEMAN)