http://www.express.co.uk/news/uk/701945/Drunken-driver-drove-70mph-30mph-zone-mounted-pavement-avoids-jail
173
17
SNWS/GETTY Kirk Karchut received a suspended 18 month sentence for his reckless behaviour

Kirk Karchut, 31, led officers on the high-speed chase through busy streets at 11am on a Saturday morning. A court heard he drove his Vauxhall on the wrong side of the road and mounted a pavement before speeding through a petrol station forecourt. Police deployed a stinger to try and stop Karchut but he continued to speed off even though the tyres were fully deflated.

When he was arrested and breathalysed, the manic driver gave a reading of 79 micrograms of alcohol in 100 millilitres of breath - more than twice the legal limit of 35.

Heavy drinking in the world of Kirk Karchut is drinking to oblivion Andrew Turnock

Karchut, of Stoke-on-Trent, Staffordshire, pleaded guilty to drunk and dangerous driving without a licence or insurance at an earlier hearing. But he was spared jail when he was sentenced to 12 months in prison suspended for 18 months at Stoke-on-Trent Crown Court yesterday. Karchut was also banned from driving for 18 months and ordered to take part in a rehabilitation activity as well as paying £200 compensation.

Judge David Fletcher said: "It is a very straightforward situation, and this offence clearly crosses the custody threshold. "I take a view there is some potential for you to deal with your issues. I am going to give you the opportunity to prove that you can." The court heard Karchut's Vauxhall had come to the attention of police in an unmarked car in Abbey Hulton, Stoke-on-Trent, on June 4 this year. Prosecutor William Magill said: "Checks revealed the vehicle had no insurance, and the officers decided to stop it.

GETTY The police found he was more than twice over the legal drinking limit

"The car failed to stop, swerved around a bus and accelerated away from the police car. "The vehicle was followed travelling at up to 50mph in a 30mph zone." The court heard Karchut also hit speeds of 70mph on a 30mph road in Bucknall, Stoke-on-Trent. Mr Magill added: "The car then drove on the wrong side of the road.

GETTY Karchut mounted a pavement and kept on driving when all his tires were flat

"The car then mounted a pavement and through a petrol station forecourt. "Fellow officers had heard about the pursuit and had set up to deploy a stinger. "However, the vehicle continued to be driven even though its tyres were fully deflated." The court heard Karchut had a criminal record going back to 1998 - with alcohol often a factor. Andrew Turnock, mitigating, said Karchut had been drinking heavily the night before the police chase.

GETTY The court ordered Karchut to pay £200 worth of compensation and attend rehabilitation