http://newsday.co.tt/crime_and_court/0,232121.html
173
17
No floodgate for bail in Sando courts

Friday, August 19 2016

THERE was no floodgate of applications for bail before Justice Hayden St Clair Douglas yesterday in the San Fernando High Court, but six persons applied.

None of them were charged with kidnapping, gang violence or gun and ammunition offences, which prompted attorney, Subhas Panday, yesterday to call for an end to spreading hysteria and panic.



He instead, urged the Government to put an end to the draconian measure of incarcerating persons charged with gun-related offences.



“What is necessary to deal with crime is to increase the detection rate so that more persons who commit crimes would be caught and brought before the courts,” Panday said.



The sunset clause in the Anti- Gang and Bail (Amendment) Act expired on Sunday at midnight and, as a consequence, the mandatory 120 days incarceration without bail for certain offences would no longer apply. Attorney-General Faris Al Rawi had expressed the view that law enforcement authorities were bracing for a flood of applications for bail from accused persons who were still awaiting the expiration of 120 days or had been refused bail in the High Court.



But Panday said yesterday that the population was made to believe that the sky would fall. He added that magistrates and judges would now decide, on merit, whether persons charged with all criminal offences, except murder, are entitled to bail.



“In other words, the original Bail Act 17 of 1994 would apply from now on.” Panday said.



What frightens Panday, an attorney who has practised at the criminal bar for over 15 years, is the Bail (Amendment) Act No 7 of 2015, which states that any person over the age of 18 found with an illegal gun or accused of using a gun in the commission of a crime, would not able to get bail for up to 120 days from the date of the offence.



As it stands now, Panday said, all a police officer has to do to deny such an accused person bail when he or she appears before a magistrate, is to inform the court that the offender had a firearm, or an imitation firearm when he was alleged to have committed the offence. He said, “The accused stands before the magistrate and the policeman or woman police officer who laid the charge, do not have to produce a gun in court to substantiate the allegation, nor present the alleged victim with the gun shot injury.”



