http://www.heraldscotland.com/opinion/14722039.Never_mind_the_burka_____let__39_s_have_a_ban_on_polls/
172
17
LAST week, The Sun newspaper was first to publish the results of a fresh poll on the subject of whether the British public would like to ban the burka. “A majority of Brits back a ban on the burka in public, poll shows,” said the paper, declaring that 57 per cent were in favour. Other newspapers followed, some of them classing the result as “overwhelming”.

The result of the poll, conducted by YouGov, was indeed substantial, almost shockingly so, and appeared to point the way towards the UK following France down the path of a ban. But where had this come from? Who was pushing this agenda? A YouGov editorial explained the backdrop: a call by Ukip leadership candidate Lisa Duffy for such a ban, and the wider context of the high feeling and controversy around recent burkini bans on French beaches.

This poll arrives at a time when post-Brexit tensions need to be cooled. Yet instead, the flames are being fanned.

Meanwhile, it would be easy to conclude that the results themselves are part of a Brexit-era shudder, or a drift towards ever more xenophobic feeling across Britain. Those of us who fear that this is happening, given recent statistics of rising hate crime, might have cause to worry. But is that actually what we are seeing here?

That a poll might be commissioned right now makes sense. Given the flap France has got into over burkinis on beaches, and German government announcements that they may consider a partial burka ban, it was perhaps inevitable that some might ask what the British public genuinely feel about the veil.

We got an answer. It appears we are keen on banning it: not as much as the French, 80 per cent of whom supported the ban prior to its introduction; but more than the United States, which polls at 59 per cent against. But though decisive, this is also an answer that needs to put into context.

This, after all, wasn’t the first such poll in recent history. There were YouGov polls in 2013 and 2010 and, if we look at their results over time, we get quite a different picture of the direction of travel.

What we find is that the British public today is less enthused by the notion of banning the burka than it was in 2010. The 57 per cent of those polled this year who backed a ban, compares with 61 per cent in 2013 and 67 per cent in 2010. There is a small fall in appetite – and meanwhile, what we also see rising is the number of ticks in the box marked “don’t know”. One could say that public opinion is very slowly shifting away from banning, towards uncertainty, or even opposition to the ban. The more the issue is debated, the more unsure we become, and the more, perhaps, we start to doubt whether the right question is being asked.

Perhaps, I would posit, the British public are gradually realising that there is no answer here. Perhaps they are no longer going with their visceral shudder of fear, the kneejerk impulse to free these women from their fabric prisons, and are instead starting to consider that the whole issue is not that simple.

But that’s not the impression that a poll like this, published across the media, gives. Rather it suggests that intolerance is growing, and that the time has come for politicians to pay attention, possibly to back such a ban themselves. The YouGov editorial explicitly suggests that “this would be a popular policy with the majority of the public”. And simply by asking the public such a bald question, it is reminding us that the burka is problematic, pointing a finger at the garment, telling us that here might lie a solution to issues of cultural tension and terrorism.

I have to admit I’m not fond of opinion polls. I don’t like the blunt, guiding nature of their questions, even when they allow room for degrees of response. "Some countries," asks the YouGov poll, "such as France, have banned people from wearing the burka in public. To what extent would you support or oppose a law that bans people from wearing the burka in the UK?" Of course, you can say "don't know", but really you're expected to be somewhere in a box marked support or oppose.

I don’t like the way polls are used to push particular agendas, the way they favour a kind of clickbait reaction, rather than slow argument and consideration. But more than anything else, I don’t like the way they appear to create the issue. Just as the EU referendum forced us to contemplate as a problem something the vast majority of us hitherto had not considered one, an opinion poll presents us with a scapegoat. It invites us to think there is something wrong here, something worth banning.

We live in a time of polls. And we in the media have become increasingly influenced and reliant on them. I quote them myself from time to time. They exert their tyranny across the world. In the United States, a study by the Pew Research Centre found that while in the 1960s, news sources only made mention of opinion polls a few times, by the 2000s their use had jumped to between 6,000 and 8,000 per annum.

There are particular questions that appear to suit opinion polls well: in or out, to ban or not ban, to leave or to stay. A political culture driven by polls is one that seeks answers in these kind of questions, while neglecting more complicated questions that don’t fit the format.

But with every kind of question, polls can oversimplify issues. I hate to think of what a UK defined by polls would look like. It would probably have the death penalty, fewer refugees accepted in the UK, women staying at home rather than risk going outdoors without their veils, policies that shift from moment to moment.

Some may see this is democracy at its purest, the people truly speaking. But the people who would actually be speaking would be those who made up the questions.