http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/politics-and-nation/as-kashmir-burns-india-seeks-to-mend-ties-with-other-neighbors/articleshow/54381628.cms
173
17
On the first Friday prayers following Eid last week, riot police in Lhaviyani Atoll in northern Maldives barged into a mosque to arrest devotees praying to Allah to free political prisoners, including its exiled president Mohamed Nasheed . In South Asia's smallest nation, the police, of course, answer to their reportedly corrupt president Abdulla Yameen , whose dictatorial policies in the paradise islands have unleashed an extraordinary upheaval that are eating into the vitals of this young democracy.Watching with quiet concern is India, the Maldives' gargantuan neighbour in the north and east, wondering if and whether a coalition between former political enemies like Maumoon Abdul Gayoom and Nasheed can rid the Maldives of Yameen's baleful influence.Surely, there's never a dull moment in India's neighbourhood. Prime Minister Narendra Modi 's extraordinary energy in hoping to rewrite at least some legacies of the past were on display this week, with the visits of Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and Nepal's PM Pushpa Kamal Dahal , also known as Prachanda. It is now being said that India has decided to offer asylum, or at least travel documents to Baloch separatists living in London and Geneva and elsewhere, so they can stir up the insurgency in Pakistan 's underbelly.Certainly, Delhi's Balochistan jab is a new policy thrust that has the capacity to shake up the region. It invokes the anger and despair in 1947-48 of Baloch's Khan of Kalat — a princeling who stood up to Jinnah's insistence that he join the new Pakistan, and was ultimately forced to agree by rude force — with the insurgency that has disrupted the province ever since.So as Kashmir burns uninterruptedly for the third month, the Delhi establishment is seeking to create an equivalence with the troubles in Balochistan. If Pakistan can stoke the insurgency inside Kashmir for decades, India can surely shed its diffidence and support the "moral and political" struggles of the Baloch?In the coming days, the UN General Assembly is set to become a verbal war zone with Pakistan PM Nawaz Sharif raising Kashmir, while External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj ups the ante on Balochistan.The unhappy Baloch are only one quiver in Delhi's formidable arsenal. Another is its determination to make friends with Pakistan's unhappy neighbours who can help squeeze Pakistan from the outside as well. In this new great game, Afghanistan's Ghani is a key player. Although he began his presidency two years ago by going against the advice of his own intelligence establishment and announcing an understanding between it and Pakistan's ISI, the Afghan president realises that the ISI and the Pakistan army are determined to keep his beloved country a client state. Ghani seems much happier to partner with India's newly minted strategy to keep Rawalpindi on the boil.So India gave Afghanistan an additional billion dollars, but terrorism by their common neighbour — Pakistan — was front and centre of the agenda. It helps that Ghani continues to be supported by the Americans in Kabul and that US President Barack Obama is Modi's newest best friend. The only problem in this beautifully cooking jelly is that Ghani's political antagonist, Abdullah Abdullah, has always been very close to India. Hopefully, that wrinkle can be sorted out soon.Certainly, there's something special about leaders who emerge from the mountains. In the lap of the Himalayas, Nepal's PM Prachanda fought monarchy exactly a decade ago with a little help from India — and won — but has since fallen in and out with Delhi a couple of times. Perhaps that's the nature of the neighbourhood. Intimacy breeds both togetherness and resentment.Less than a year ago, Delhi and Kathmandu, then under the prime ministership of KP Oli, were bitterly opposed to each other as Oli resisted the introduction of equal rights for its Madhesi population in the Terai. But Prachanda, with a little encouragement from Delhi, has been persuaded to see the light and has now allied himself with the Madhesi leaders. While some amendments to the constitution in Nepal are awaited, Modi seems persuaded that his own RSS mentors, hoping against hope for a Hindu rashtra in a predominantly Hindu republic, should stand down in favour of a former Maoist.So as China builds a railway across desert and mountain to reach Nepal's border from the Tibet side, India has promised to expand upon an East-West road and rail network across Nepal, besides $750 million for earthquake reconstruction.Prachanda certainly realises that his own as well as the Nepali elite's momentary romanticism with Beijing cannot come at the cost of his nation's age-old ties with India.The question is, does Modi seek to remake South Asia in his own image? He certainly has the right to think along those lines — just as Jawaharlal Nehru did by taking Kashmir to the UN, like PV Narasimha Rao did by sending a multi-party delegation headed by Atal Bihari Vajpayee to the UN Human Rights Council, like Vajpayee did by visiting Pakistan even after the Kargil conflict and like Manmohan Singh did by opening back-channel talks on Kashmir with Pervez Musharraf.If Modi's instinct is to further democratise South Asia, then his instinct is right. Perhaps a dose of the democracy pill is now needed in the Maldives. Time to go south.