http://www.4-traders.com/WELLS-FARGO-CO-14861/news/Wells-Fargo-Prosecutors-Take-Up-Wells-WSJ-23057377/
173
17
Bank's sales practices draw scrutiny from U.S. attorneys in New York, California

By Emily Glazer and Christopher M. Matthews

Federal prosecutors are in the early stages of an investigation into sales practices at Wells Fargo & Co. that led to the bank being hit last week with a $185 million fine, according to people familiar with the matter.

The investigation is being conducted by the U.S. attorney's offices for the Southern District of New York and the Northern District of California, these people said. Prosecutors have yet to decide if any case, should they decide to pursue one, would be along civil or criminal lines, the people said.

Prosecutors have issued a subpoena to the bank for documents and materials, the people added.

A spokeswoman for Wells Fargo declined to comment. A spokesman for the Manhattan U.S. attorney declined to comment. A spokesman for the U.S. attorney for the Northern District of California didn't respond to requests for comment.

Wells Fargo last week was fined by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and Los Angeles City Attorney and entered into an enforcement action. The regulators alleged that Wells Fargo engaged in "widespread illegal" activity and said that employees had opened as many as two million accounts without customers' knowledge. The bank neither admitted nor denied wrongdoing as part of the settlement.

A criminal investigation by federal prosecutors, were it to happen, would represent a significant escalation from last week's civil settlement. Because the financial-services industry is among the mostly highly regulated in the U.S., alleged misconduct can draw the scrutiny of multiple law-enforcement and regulatory agencies.

The involvement of the Justice Department raises the stakes because it holds responsibility for criminal prosecutions and can seek more severe penalties or charges against individual employees.

More immediately, the development shows the matter isn't behind the bank.

While in early stages, the investigation by federal prosecutors is focusing on whether someone senior within the bank directed employees to falsify documents in conjunction with the opening of accounts and products without consumers' knowledge or authorization.

Prosecutors are also focusing on whether there was willful blindness to sales practices on the part of executives at the bank, these people said.

Wells Fargo has acknowledged that it fired 5,300 employees over a five-year period related to improper sales practices. Chief Executive John Stumpf in an interview Tuesday with The Wall Street Journal said there were employees in the bank who didn't "honor" the company's values and so had to be let go.

The bank hasn't identified any senior executives held responsible for the behavior. Mr. Stumpf said that those fired included bankers, managers and managers of managers, but declined to name the most senior executive let go.

Mr. Stumpf said "Our goal is to get it right with every customer 100% of the time. When we fall short of that goal, I feel accountable and our leadership team feels accountable -- and we want all our stakeholders to know that." But Mr. Stumpf also said the bad behavior didn't signal wider institutional or cultural problems within Wells Fargo.

The investigation by prosecutors raises another concern for Wells Fargo, which has faced public and political fallout for the settlement and the allegations of bad behavior. Mr. Stumpf is slated to appear Tuesday before the Senate Banking Committee at a hearing that will focus on Wells Fargo's sales practices.

Additionally, the bank said this week that it would scrap sales goals at in its retail-banking operation. Regulators cited such goals and compensation incentives tied to them as fueling employees' behavior.

Write to Emily Glazer at emily.glazer@wsj.com and Christopher M. Matthews at christopher.matthews@wsj.com