https://behindthenewsisrael.wordpress.com/2016/09/04/egyptian-mp-women-must-accept-genital-mutilation-to-reduce-libido-and-match-sexually-weak-men/
173
17
A member of Egyptian parliament called on women to agree to female genital mutilation, or FGM, in order to “reduce their sexual appetites,” local media reported. He also cited Egyptian men’s high rate of consumption of sexual stimulants.

Elhamy Agina, also in hot water in June this year after comments suggesting that women should dress more modestly in the Egyptian parliament, this time openly defended the procedure of female genital mutilation, a centuries-old tradition common in many African states. The procedure requires the intentional removal of some or all female external genitalia for non-medical reasons.

The ‘operation’ is often conducted by a charlatan healer on girls while they are still toddlers using a razor blade and no anesthetic.

“We are a population whose men suffer from sexual weakness, which is evident because Egypt is among the biggest consumers of sexual stimulants that only the weak will consume,” Agina said.

“If we stop [female genital mutilation], we will need strong men and we don’t have men of that sort,” the MP declared.

He also suggested that it would be better for women to undergo the procedure as it “reduces a woman’s sexual appetite” and women must “stand by their men” so that Egyptian husbands and wives live in concord.

The ritual procedure, dating back thousands of years, is still widespread in Egypt, despite having been outlawed in 2008 with Article 242 of the Penal Code criminalizing the practice. Last week, Egypt’s cabinet approved a bill which increases jail terms for people who perform FGM and those who escort girls to the practice.

Despite the legislation, though, FGM is still performed in Egypt behind closed doors and often in unsanitary conditions. According to the country’s Health Issues Survey (EHIS) conducted in 2015, some nine in 10 women aged from 15 to 49 have been subjected to the procedure, mostly those living in rural areas or having lower levels of education.