http://leadership.ng/news/549205/police-arrest-ex-ebonyi-council-boys-four-others-over-theft
173
17
he Ebony I State Police command in the wee hours of Sunday Itodo arrested the former Vice Chairman of Abakaliki local government area, Mr. John Nwofoke and four others for allegedly draining over 450 litres of diesel from the sound proof generating sets provided by the state to

supply light to the street lights across the state.

LEADERSHIP gathered that the suspects were arrested after they had successfully drained the diesel from the generating sets at Azugwu sub-station and loaded it in a hilux van from where they would either reseal the product or still use it as their supply for the next day

having been paid for the supplies.

Leadership gathered that there was a mild drama at the scene of the incident when a hilux vehicle allegedly belonging to the state Ministry of Power loaded with suspected thugs allegedly came to effect the release of the suspects and were resisted by the policemen and the

residents of the area.

It was gathered that the ex council boss who serves as the Confidential Personal Assistant to the state Commissioner for Power, Mr. Emma Uguru is also said to be the man in charge of the supply of

the diesel in the Ministry of Power where the ministry is said to be spending over N20 million monthly in the supply of diesel.

However, at the time of this report, there is uneasy calm in the Ministry as the five suspects arrested by the police were allegedly recruited by the Commissioner to supply the diesel and ensure safety

of the installation as the State government may probe the constant

draining of the diesel by suspects.

According to a staff of the ministry who spoke to Leadership on grounds of anonymity said all the suspects arrested by the police were boys to the commissioner, adding “the boys were all Emma Uguru’s men, at the time of their arrest; they were arrested alongside a hilux vehicle attached to the office of the Commissioner with over 20 gallons containing the diesel.

Meanwhile, the suspects were taken to the Ekumenyi Police Division where they were drilled and detained.

Governor David Umahi while speaking at the state thanksgiving service at the Christ Embassy church, Abakaliki described the incident as serious economic threat, adding that the state government will not tolerate any act capable of destroying any installations of the state government.

He said the state government will prosecute the suspects to serve as

deterrent to others who may be planning to indulge in such criminality.

It will be recalled that the Ebonyi state Command of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defense Corps, NSCDC last week arrested a two man gang that specialized in secret sales of government diesel to a cartelin the state.

One of the suspects, names withheld is in charge of the Generator Plants used in powering street lights along Ezza Road and one other suspect who is the personal Guard to the Head of service, Ebonyi State government, Mr. Chamberline Nwele.