http://www.express.co.uk/news/uk/704642/SAS-at-Notting-Hill-Carnival-Ring-of-steel-at-London-festival-over-terror-attack-fears
174
17
GETTY Police are on the scene at the Nottinghill Carnival

Yesterday Police raided buildings and seized guns, ammunition and a machete in the Notting Hill neighbourhood in west London. Up to two million people are expected to be on the streets today and tomorrow for the festival but they will be protected by a specialist task force known as "Blue Thunder" who are to patrol from the sky and from covert locations. Armed snipers are to be placed throughout the famous London neighbourhood as police confirm they have "meticulously planned" their operation which has been designed to avoid a Bataclan, Munich or Nice-style attack. Security has been upped around the country and the threat to the UK is "severe".

A specialist command unit is using visual recognition software to identify terrorists. MI5 advice says: "International terrorism is a nationwide problem in the UK. "Attacks have occurred in London and Glasgow, and thwarted terrorist plots have been aimed at targets outside the capital." Unmarked blue helicopters are on stand-by as the carnival gets underway.

GETTY The Notting Hill Carnival is being policed by SAS

The threat level for London has been set at 'severe' for some time now and remains at this level for carnival 2016 Met's carnival spokesman Superintendent Robyn Williams

A Met Police said: "Our operation has been meticulously planned and involves a range of measures aimed at ensuring the safety and security of those attending the carnival. "A number of barriers are being placed at key locations as part of these plans. "This is a precautionary measure and is not in response to any specific intelligence to suggest a threat to the carnival. "UK security measures and activities are constantly reviewed to reflect the current threat to the UK from international terrorism and in response to events across the world." SAS snipers have been trained to stop vehicles in crowds by shooting drivers with armour-piercing bullets, according to the Daily Star online (http://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/latest-news/541041/notting-hill-carnival-isis-terror-terrorist-attack-SAS-protecting-revellers).

The Met Police has a team of armed snipers to respond to an attack. The counter-terrorism specialist firearms officers are elite police equipped with new weapons and trained in tactics, such as fast-roping from helicopters, battling terrorists and rescuing helicopters. Notting Hill Carnival bosses say they have doubled security they are putting measures in to prevent gang violence. The Met's carnival spokesman Superintendent Robyn Williams, said: "This weekend is the highlight of the year, not only for the Caribbean community, but also for many visitors from London and the rest of the country.

GETTY Police launched raids on houses yesterday and found guns and knives

"The Met has worked hard to ensure that carnival is a safe and enjoyable weekend for everyone who attends and I would ask all carnival goers to enjoy this family event and make sure that you follow officers’ and stewards’ instructions. "In addition to the officers policing carnival, highly-skilled officers who can recall offenders’ faces after seeing them briefly either in person or on file – so-called ‘super-recognisers’ – will be monitoring the event live from a CCTV control room. "This year the Met also has an extra tool in its possession to identify and arrest troublemakers, with a trial of a facial recognition system which can assist in identifying wanted offenders. "The technology involves the use of overt cameras which scan the faces of those passing by and flag up potential matches against a database of custody images.