https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2016/sep/15/silicon-valley-tech-industry-elitism-mark-zuckerberg
172
17
Last week’s roasting of Mark Zuckerberg over Facebook’s decision to censor the most iconic photograph of the Vietnam war has once again turned a favored son of Silicon Valley into a public punching bag. It happens pretty often, although typically the damage is more spontaneously self-inflicted. Tech executives seem to have a special talent for doing or saying infuriating things.

Indeed, hardly a week goes by without a powerful person in Silicon Valley upsetting a significant number of people. Whether it’s Marc Andreessen declaring that India was better off under British colonial rule, or Marc Benioff seeing Black Lives Matter as a branding opportunity, or Elon Musk shrugging off the death of a Tesla driver using the car’s autopilot feature, tech industry titans are the stuff that PR nightmares are made of.

Why is the tech industry so frequently enraging? The most obvious answer is its insularity. The industry remains heavily concentrated in the San Francisco Bay Area, and its upper ranks form a fairly close-knit community. An act or opinion that elicits vigorous approval within this community might set off a tsunami of outrage outside of it, a disconnect that many tech elites seem unaware of.

Silicon Valley’s leaders are also accustomed to being treated differentially, even worshipfully, by a tech press that faithfully parrots their press releases and a political class that hails them as the saviors of the American economy. If they act a bit too bullish or speak a bit too freely, it’s because they’ve been encouraged to. If they respond poorly to criticism, it’s because their skins haven’t been given the opportunity to thicken.

To change the world, Silicon Valley’s leaders must do battle with the forces that want to keep it the way it is

But these reasons provide only a partial explanation. Silicon Valley may offer an especially extreme case, but the bosses of any industry are insular by virtue of their power and wealth. You could hardly accuse the overlords of the financial sector of being in touch with the everyday lives of ordinary Americans. The more meaningful question isn’t whether tech is an island, but what kind of island it is.

The most important thing to understand about tech elites is that they’re idealists. When they talk about changing the world, they mean it. This is hard for outside observers to understand, who are often inclined to dismiss tech’s transformational rhetoric as hackneyed marketing chatter. It may be hackneyed, but it is also deeply felt among industry leaders.

This idealism is the legacy of the 60s and 70s counterculture, which continues to exert enormous ideological influence on Silicon Valley. Historian Fred Turner has chronicled how cultural entrepreneurs such as Stewart Brand and the editors of Wired magazine powerfully shaped tech’s image of itself – so powerfully that even the 20-year-old founder who has never heard of Brand or never read Wired in the 90s is living in the world they created. The techno-utopian consensus comes in many flavors, but at its core is the idea that technology is a tool for personal empowerment that can radically restructure society for the better.

Utopia won’t arrive without a fight, however. To change the world, Silicon Valley’s leaders must do battle with the forces that want to keep it the way it is. This is the other half of hippiedom: rebellion against the big, boring institutions that enslave society. The cosmology of the counterculture was never complicated: it’s the Empire – authoritarian, bureaucratic, collectivist – v the Rebel Alliance – scrappy, romantic, individualist. It may seem strange that the people running one of the most profitable sectors of the economy think of themselves as rebels. But for the idealists of Silicon Valley, fulfilling their ideals necessarily involves a frontal assault on the establishment. Witness their fondness for the word “disruption”, which conveys the joyful violence of smashing the status quo. Or the Facebook motto “move fast and break things”, which surely applies to more than just code.

Seeing tech elites the way they see themselves, as utopian revolutionaries, helps clarify why they so often stumble into controversy. If you believe that your industry is an instrument of human liberation, then you’re likely to feel an excess of confidence in your ability to tackle or speak about subjects you know nothing about – in much the same way that a Christian fundamentalist might feel qualified to give an opinion on homosexuality, say, or the age of the universe. And if you believe that you are saving the world through an act of creative rebellion, then you may react angrily to criticism, because it feels like ingratitude. Here you are struggling to destroy the Empire, and this is the thanks you get?

Andreessen’s remark about the benefits of British colonialism offers an instructive example. A venture capitalist and Facebook board member, Andreessen was responding to the Indian government’s decision to ban Facebook’s Free Basics program, a free mobile service aimed at bringing the internet to people too poor to pay for it. This seemingly philanthropic gesture was motivated by self-interest: Facebook would determine which apps and which kinds of data would be permitted, forming a digital dictatorship over large parts of India that would pay dividends down the road. Indians responded with fierce protests that eventually succeeded in killing the experiment.

Tech was making the world a better place​​ – yet the world it was making wasn’t one that millions wanted to live in

In a tweet, Andreessen blamed India’s rejection of Free Basics on an “anti-colonialism that has been economically catastrophic” for the country. The intensity of this response, which required days of damage control to retract, suggests he was truly incensed at the thought that the interests of Silicon Valley and those of the human race as a whole might not coincide. Tech was making the world a better place – yet the world it was making wasn’t one that millions of Indians wanted to live in.

The reality is that Silicon Valley isn’t a force for good or evil, but something more prosaic: a force for capital accumulation. Its executives may talk about radical transformation, but their transformations aren’t particularly radical. No one would dispute that companies such as Apple, Facebook and Google have changed much about our lives. But compared with the extraordinary innovations of the 20th century, and the expectations these produced about a space-faring, Jetsonian future, the world of apps looks pretty meager. Peter Thiel, whose contrarianism runs so deep it even out-contrarians the contrarians of Silicon Valley, puts it perfectly: “We wanted flying cars, instead we got 140 characters.”

What’s changed even less, however, is the economic regime where these modest transformations take place. Tech elites may like to think of themselves as rule-breakers, but they play by the same rules as the rest of American capitalism. The future they imagine for us is one in which markets predominate and small numbers of large corporations continue to own society’s wealth. This is ultimately what the Rebel Alliance has to offer: the same political economy as the Empire, with better UI. Fortunately, there’s nothing foreordained about this future. Forging an alternative will require following the Indian example, and building a movement from below. It may bruise a few egos, and inflame a few tempers, but the emotional discomfort it causes the billionaire prophets of Silicon Valley will be well worth the result.