http://dailypost.ng/2016/10/22/north-east-commission-bill-senator-nyako-regrets-loss-soldiers-insurgents-attacks/
173
17
The Senator representing Adamawa Central Senatorial District, Abdulaziz Murtala Nyako has described the passage of North East Commission into law by the Senate as a milestone for Nigerians and the people from the zone.

Speaking with DAILY POST in Abuja, Nyako lamented that the incident of insurgency remains unfortunate for the nation if huge economic, material and human loss were taken into consideration.

“The degree of devastation in terms of human, materials and financial losses occasioned by insurgents attack is regrettable. Funds expended fighting insurgency in the zone has affected the nation so much”, Nyako said.

“On daily basis, we are losing our soldiers, civilian JTF, people including the vulnerable and this is quite regrettable”, he added.

He was, however, optimistic that the Commission would address the problem of the people particularly the internally displaced persons, stressing that it would have been better the lot of Nigerians in terms of infrastructure if those monies government spent fighting terrorism were channeled into other areas.

Nyako said that herdsmen crises and other forms of insecurity across the federation were as a result of movement of cattle rearers from Sambisa Forest, explaining that North East almost became a hub where criminals are dispatched to other zones.

“Herdsmen crises across the nation was because of Boko Haram attack on them which they have to move to other parts of the country they do not know the terrain and before you know it herdsmen will attack those resisting them.”

He added that the Senate was aware of diversion of relief materials meant for IDPs which the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) was already handling, disclosing that the Senate has deliberately passed a bill stipulating stiff penalties for those involved in diversion.

“Last week, the Senate passed a bill to the effect that anybody who diverts relief materials meant for internally displaced persons would be jailed for ten years. They will be made to return quantity of materials diverted with a minimum of ten years with or without option of N10million fine,” he maintained.