http://www.4-traders.com/news/Innovation-at-PAAMCO-Draws-Hedge-Fund-Veteran--22999418/
331
3
IRVINE, Calif., Sept. 2, 2016 /PRNewswire/ -- PAAMCO, an alternative investment management firm, today announced that hedge fund veteran Basil Williams has joined the firm as Managing Director. During the next year, he will transition into Head of Portfolio Management, succeeding David Weinberger who plans to retire in mid-2017.

Williams, who was most recently Co-CIO of Mariner Investment Group, cited the innovation at PAAMCO as the key driver for him in joining the firm.

"Whether it is providing alternative absolute return portfolios, solving an LDI challenge or constructing bespoke completion portfolios for traditional asset class allocations, PAAMCO has become the go-to firm for the world's most sophisticated institutional investors" said Williams. "I have known the firm since its inception more than fifteen years ago and have seen how it has anticipated many of the industry developments such as transparency and separate accounts. I am delighted to be part of the organization."

PAAMCO CEO Jane Buchan also cited innovation and the evolution of the firm as a central reason for hiring Williams. "Bringing Basil on board will broaden our outreach, particularly in the area of tailored, fixed income-based solutions. His thirty-plus years of expertise will help us continue to design offerings that meet the changing needs of our clients" said Buchan. "He is uniquely positioned to help us with our continued evolution. As a firm, we have found value in using our separate account structure to increase individual manager returns while simultaneously reducing overall manager costs."

Williams' career spans more than thirty-five years and includes roles at the highest levels at several investment management firms. For most of his career, he was Head of Fixed Income and then CEO of Concordia Advisors, an alternative investment firm focused on relative value trading. After merging the firm with Mariner Investment Group in 2013, he became its Co-Chief Investment Officer. Williams holds an MBA from New York University and a BA in Applied Math from Brown University.

About PAAMCO

PAAMCO (Pacific Alternative Asset Management Company), which manages $10 billion in discretionary assets and advises on an additional $12 billion in assets, is a leading institutional investment firm dedicated to offering alternative investment solutions to the world's preeminent investors. Since its founding in 2000, PAAMCO has focused on investing on behalf of its clients while striving to raise the standard for industry-wide best practices.

Headquartered in Irvine, California with a global footprint that extends across North America, South America, Europe and Asia, PAAMCO's clients include large public and private pension funds, sovereign wealth funds, foundations, endowments, insurance companies and financial institutions. The firm is known for its completeAlpha((TM)) approach to hedge fund investing which focuses on delivering performance from early-stage opportunities, controlling costs and protecting client assets. In addition, it offers long-only active equity investing in emerging markets through its PAAMCO Miren division.

Media Contacts

Steve Bruce/Mary Beth Grover

ASC Advisors

203 992 1230

To view the original version on PR Newswire, visit:http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/innovation-at-paamco-draws-hedge-fund-veteran-300322280.html

SOURCE PAAMCO (Pacific Alternative Asset Management Company)