http://www.philstar.com/headlines/2016/08/14/1613275/shabu-tiangge-found-cebu-jails
173
17
MANILA, Philippines - Authorities seized almost P5 million in cash and a large stash of illegal drugs inside two provincial jails in Cebu City yesterday.

Officials said two teams led by agents of the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency (PDEA) together with the police and jail guards raided the Bagong Buhay Rehabilitation Center and the Cebu Provincial Rehabilitation Center in Barangay Kalunasan in Cebu City.

The raiding teams discovered drug dens allegedly maintained by the inmates, Central Visayas police director Chief Supt. Noli Talino said.

“Based on our information, the inmates feel more safe in using drugs right inside the jails rather than outside. We discovered the drug dens where the users can buy shabu much like a tiangge (flea market),” Talino said.

During the inspection of the jails, all inmates were ordered to strip naked to ensure they are not hiding any contraband.

Talino said the raids were conducted on the request of Cebu Gov. Hilario Davide Jr., who also gave additional information regarding the drug dens at the jails.

Headlines ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1

“The inspection stemmed from the information received from a former inmate who surrendered (and said) that the facilities have shabu tiangge operations,” Talino said.

The raiding team seized some P4.5 million in cash, a total of 88 grams of shabu individually wrapped in plastic sachets, cellphones, weighing scales and assorted drug paraphernalia.

Talino said the jail officials would be investigated regarding the illegal drug operations in the two penal facilities.

Meanwhile, government prosecutors in La Union are set to appeal the case of a former police colonel convicted for illegal drugs.

In July 2008, the regional trial court of Bauang sentenced former police superintendent Dionicio Borromeo to life imprisonment for allegedly protecting a shabu laboratory in the province.

An appeal was made before the Court of Appeals where the sentence was lowered to 12 to 20 years imprisonment. – With Jun Elias