http://dailypost.ng/2016/09/10/gunmen-kidnap-unical-deans-son-shoots-lecturer-wife/
171
17
Gunmen suspected to be kidnappers have abducted the son of the Dean of postgraduate school of the University of Calabar, Emeka Okwueze, Onyebuchi Okwueze.

A statement by the university’s information officer, Mr. Effiong Eyo, said the gunmen also shot two other persons during the operation.

The statement reads: “A first year student of the department of Banking and Finance and son of the current Dean of Graduate School of the University of Calabar, Onyebuchi Okwueze, has been reportedly kidnapped.

“Gunmen suspected to be kidnappers yesterday stormed the premises of the Dean, Professor Emeka Okwueze, who was unavailable at the time of the attack, broke into his house and made away with his plasma television and his 24-year old son who was the only one at home.

“The gunmen who were said to have begun their operation at about 8.15pm also inflicted injuries on a lecturer in Physics department, Dr Anthony George, and his wife who were driving in and got caught up in the attack. While Dr George was shot on his right hand, his wife sustained bullet injuries on the left knee. Both are however responding to treatment.

“Though they made unsuccessful attempts to gain entrance into the stretch of houses accommodating staff within the wing of buildings, the gunmen however smashed the mirror and front tyre of a Mercedes Benz vehicle belonging to a Professor in the College of Medical Sciences, Prof Chucks Ejezie.

“It will be recalled that in the month of May this year, kidnappers invaded the same wing of buildings and took away with them the son of a Deputy Registrar, Barr Ekpenyong Iniama and the wife and daughter of Prof Wilfred Ndifon of the College of Medical Sciences, but both were later released.

“In a bid to checkmate future occurrence of the event, the Deputy Chief Security Officer of the Institution, DSP Jarlath Abang, disclosed that several security measures had been put in place by the management of the institution in conjunction with the Cross River State Government.

“The measures covered and implemented in the joint initiative include demolition of all shanties at the waterfront by the Cross River State Government, prohibition of fishing and farming at the water front, displacement of illegal occupants and constant patrol of the quarters both by security operatives on foot and vehicles.

“The Deputy Chief Security Officer attributed the delay in the distress call as a major reason for the kidnappers’ gain.

“The Vice Chancellor of the institution, Prof Zana Akpagu, visited the homes of the staff who were affected by the attack and commiserated with them over the unfortunate event and assured them of anagement’s concern over their welfare and pledged to do all within the purview of his office to ensure the release of those kidnapped and also catch up with the kidnappers.

“He also promised to work with the relevant security agencies to ensure continued safety of lives and properties on campus.”