http://www.india.com/news/india/bharat-bandh-2-sep-2016-protesters-vandalise-state-bus-in-west-bengal-trade-unions-strike-disrupts-normal-life-in-up-1453406/
30
3
Mumbai, Sep 2: Trade unions’ strike on Friday has left commuters affected in major parts of the country. With state transport buses not plying, passengers have been stranded at bus stops. Protesters in West Bengal on Friday morning vandalised a North Bengal State Transport Corporation (NBSTC) bus in Cooch in Behar district. Municipal Corporation Mayor Ashok Bhattacharya was arrested along with 15 other protesters in Siliguri, West Bengal.

Passengers were seen stranded at an inter state bus stand in Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala. Schools and colleges in Bengaluru urban district are closed today as a precautionary measure. In Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh roadways employees disrupted normal life. Railway employees at Bhubaneswar railway station in Odisha have also joined the strike. (ALSO READ: Live Updates on Trade Unions strike; banks, factories, govt offices remain shut)

West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said that there will be no ‘bandh’ in the state. CM also warned supporters of the strike and said that strong action will be taken against those who disrupt public life.

Around 3000 personnel have been deployed in the state to maintain law and order in and around the city during the strike called by central trade unions (TUs). The Chief Minister also said that West Bengal government is planning to introduce a new law in which people who ransack and damage property during striles will have to make the compensation . She also asked people to report for work on Friday. Talking about the bandh, Banerjee said, “We will make a law on this. I had a discussion on this with the chief secretary,” she said here. However, the government will pay compensation if anyone’s vehicle or shop is damaged during tomorrow’s strike.” (ALSO READ- Bharat Bandh 2 Sep 2016: No auto, cab strike in Mumbai; public transport to function tomorrow)

At a time when illness such as chikungunya and dengue is on rise, nurses at government hospitals across the country have also joined the strike. Lakhs of nurses are on an indefinite strike as they want redressal of issues related to pay and allowances.

Banking operations are also hit as employees of six public sector banks have decided to join the strike in the country. Protesting against “anti-labour policies” of the government many banks informed their customers about likely inconvenience on Friday. Unions like All India Bank Employees’ Association (AIBEA), Bank Employees Federation of India (BEFI), All India Bank Officers’ Association (AIBOA), All India Bank Officers’ Confederation (AIBOC) and Indian National Bank Officers Congress (INBOC) have issued notice saying that they will go on a one-day strike on September 2.

Trade union leaders said that the strike would be bigger than last year’s bandh and around 18 crore workers would join the protest against government. Trade Union Coordination Committee (TUCC) General Secretary S P Tiwari, “This time strike will be bigger than last year as over 18 crore workers from formal and informal sectors would come on streets to protest against government’s indifference to their 12-points charter of demands and unilateral anti-worker labour law amendments.”

One of the foremost demands of the trade unions is that minimum wages should be above Rs 18,000. They had given ’12-point charter of demands’ to the government in September last year listing their demands. The trade unions had also demanded that price rise should be checked through a pan-India public distribution system. They also said that labour laws be enforced and all workers get universal social security.