http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3885916/PHD-student-accused-starting-fires-Calais-Jungle-university-academic-funded-British-taxpayer-study-police-fascist-violence-camp.html
36
3
James Ellison (pictured) has been writing about the ‘positive aspects of violence’ on the No Borders’ Facebook page under an alias

A leading member of the anarchist group accused of starting fires in the Calais Jungle is a British university academic who is being funded to study ‘police and fascist violence’ in the camp, it can be revealed.

James Ellison is part of the hard-line organisation No Borders, whose members are being investigated by French police over claims they infiltrated the Jungle and torched shacks by igniting gas canisters during this week’s operation to close the sprawling camp.

Mr Ellison, 29, has been posting regularly about the camp’s closure on No Borders’ Facebook page under the online alias ‘James Jayus’, calling to ‘let everyone in’ to Britain and writing about the ‘positive aspects of violence’.

Mr Ellison has a fully funded scholarship at Loughborough University, where he is studying for a doctorate on ‘visual representations of border violence in Calais’. He also gives talks at other campuses across the country.

Until two days ago the university had described Mr Ellison on its website as an ‘activist’ who ‘through involvement with freedom of movement struggles in Calais... has witnessed first hand the ensuing border crisis and human emergency as it has increased over the last 4 years.

‘All of this experience has fed into his research and James has become directly involved with documenting police and fascist violence in Calais. He has also helped establish social media groups that have become instrumental in coordinating material support and volunteers in Calais.’

Mr Ellison described his research project on 'border violence in Calais' in one of his online profiles

The Calais camp was demolished on Monday (pictured) and No Borders activists were accused by migrants in the Calais Jungle of lighting fires. Mr Ellison was not in the camp during its closure, but was posting regularly on Facebook group Calais Migrant Solidarity

These lines were deleted after The Mail on Sunday approached the university for comment.

The university offers students fully funded ‘studentships’ in the School of the Arts, English and Drama, which Ellison studies in, covering tuition fees and paying them a yearly stipend of £14,296. Loughborough University received more than £33 million last year in teaching and research grants from Government quango the Higher Education Funding Council for England.

Mr Ellison was not in the camp during its closure, but during the past week he has been posting regularly on Facebook group Calais Migrant Solidarity (No Borders), which he helps run as an administrator, under his alias. The group’s Facebook page says: ‘We work against the state and its borders and believe in freedom of movement for all.’

Mr Ellison, who grew up in a pretty terraced cottage in the desirable Devon village of Cheriton Fitzpaine and attended local state schools, wrote earlier this month: ‘I’d like to say, don’t just let the children in, let everyone in. It doesn’t matter how f*****g old they are!’ Prior to its demolition, in a discussion on the page about Calais’ mayor’s fears that Left-wing anarchists would cause trouble in the camp, the academic admitted he saw ‘the positive aspects of violence’.

He wrote: ‘I can see the positive aspects of violence and I see no need to be violent when the people you are struggling with don’t lead the fight. Still, not all No Borders [members] are violent.

A burning travel trailer in the Calais Jungle in Calais after French authorities went in to clear the camp on Monday

‘Just like not all Jungle residents are violent.’

No Borders activists were accused by migrants in the Calais Jungle of lighting fires that engulfed parts of the camp in the early hours of Wednesday morning.

Patrick Visser-Bourdon, the police commissioner leading the security operation, said afterwards: ‘Migrants say No Borders activists came into the camp in the middle of the night and set off the canisters.’

The investigation into the No Borders infiltration of the Jungle was followed by yesterday’s announcement that French riot police will start destroying illegal camps in Paris that have been swelling after migrants converged on the capital after the razing of the Jungle.

In September, Ellison posted an article about three Mail on Sunday journalists who were injured in a car crash in Calais after migrants threw a log at their vehicle, saying: ‘Daily Mail hate and lies!’ In 2012 the activist was charged with obstructing the highway during a protest organised by No Borders at an Immigration Removal Centre near Heathrow against a flight deporting people to Ghana.

The committed anarchist even bragged on Facebook at the time about how he received legal aid. He appeared in court with 10 others, but his charges were later dropped.

Debris of burned makeshift shelters is all that is left of the camp that once housed between 6,000 and 8,000 people

Last night Mr Ellison said in a statement from his lawyer: ‘I am not currently in Calais nor have I been there for nine months. I find the scenes of the camp on fire and its destruction distressing. My role in No Borders is as administrator for a Facebook Group. I am not responsible for organising any of the protests that have occurred.’

He added: ‘I do not believe that all “No Border” activists are violent nor do I believe that they were responsible for the fire and destruction of the camp.’

He claimed he had discussed ‘positive aspect of violence’ in a discussion of the 1969 Stonewall riots by the New York gay community. An hour after the MoS contacted Ellison for comment, the ‘James Jayus’ Facebook page was deleted.