http://www.4-traders.com/news/Ministry-of-External-Affairs-of-Republic-of-In-Transcription-of-Media-Briefing-on-upcoming-visit-o--23038316/
30
3
Official Spokesperson, Shri Vikas Swarup: Good evening friends. We have two important briefings lined up today beside my own regular interaction.

The coming week will be a busy diplomatic week for India in terms of both 'Act East' as well as India's global engagements through the G20 Forum.

Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi will be making an official visit to Vietnam on September 02 and 03. He will arrive in the night of 02 September and the official program will begin on the morning of 03 September.

He will hold bilateral talks with his Vietnamese counterpart Nguyễn Xuân Phúcapart from a number of other key engagements that Secretary East will brief you on today.

From Vietnam, the Prime Minister will proceed directly to Hangzhou for the G20 Summit which will take place on 04 - 05 September. Prime Minister will attend all the various sessions of the summit as well as bilateral meetings with other leaders on the sidelines including a BRICS Leader's meeting.

Secretary (West) will shortly brief you on this leg of Prime Minister's tour. Prime Minister will return to India on 05 September.

PM will again depart for Lao PDR on 07 September to attend the 14 ASEAN-India Summit and the 11East Asia Summit which will take place over 07 -08 September.

Secretary (East) will brief you in detail regarding this final leg of his tour. So let me begin today's briefings by giving the floor to Secretary (West), who will talk about Prime Minister's visit to China for G20 Summit.

Secretary (West), Ms. Sujata Mehta:Thank you Vikas and good afternoon friends. Just to tell you about what we hope to achieve from the G20 Summit and what our participation comprises.

The Summit is being held in Hangzhou on 04 and 05 September. It will comprise five thematic sessions, which I shall come to in a bit. The Indian delegation, as JS (XP) mentioned, is led by the Prime Minister. The delegation also includes Dr. Arvind Panagarhiya, the Vice-Chairman of the NITI Aayog, who is India's G20 Sherpa. The G20 is one of those international groupings where the heads are supported by the Sherpas. So at the center of India's G20 activity is the Vice Chairman of the NITI Aayog. Foreign Secretary and Secretary DEA Mr. Shaktikanta Das will also be a part of the delegation.

Each G20 Summit, and this is the 11 of them, is devoted to a particular theme. I would like to give you some background about the G20.

The G20 used to be a forum where Finance Ministers of major economies used to come together for discussions on the margins of the Annual Fund Bank meeting.

At the time of the financial crisis in 2008, as proposed by the United States, the G20 was elevated to a Summit level gathering to discuss cooperation and coordination in economic and financial matters. As I said, this happened at the time of global financial crisis and the idea was that this would be the premier body to address global economic issues.

At that time it was a question of bringing the world economy out of the downward spiral that it was in. Now it has a more positive agenda including reforming the international financial sector, strengthening global governance, particularly global economic governance and the minimizing of risk to the global economy.

Each G20 Summit has a general theme around which discussions are organized. The theme for the Hangzhou Summit is going to be, 'Towards an Innovative, Invigorated, Integrated and Inclusive World Economy.'

As I said there are going to be five themes for the discussions at the Summit. Prime Minister will be the lead speaker for session which is entitled, 'Inclusive and Interconnected Development.' Now this as you see is a theme which actually correlates closely with the manner in which we approach economic development. So he will be the lead speaker in that, but of course, all the leaders speak on all the themes at this forum.

This is a very important forum, it is a Leaders Only forum so this offers a lot of opportunities to also hold discussions on matters beyond these themes, being leaders they review the entire global agenda.

G20, in addition to this summit, also includes a virtually year long program of activities. It includes several meetings of finance ministers and central bank governors.In the Chinese Presidency there have been three such meetings this year, in Shanghai, in Washington D.C. and in Chengdu.

In addition the G20 Sherpas have been in almost constant discussion and their deliberations have included subjects such as innovation, the digital economy, the new industrial revolution, trade and investment, energy, employment, agriculture and food security, the 2030 agenda for the Sustainable Development Goals, global health and the financing of terrorism as well as the refugee crisis.

G20 working groups have been established and have met on infrastructure investment, on international financial architecture, on climate finance, on employment and so forth.

G20 ministers who are concerned with employment, with trade, with energy and agriculture have already met and G20 science and technology ministers are scheduled to meet in November this year.

The reason I am giving you all these details is to basically give you a sense of:

a)- The very broad ambit that the G20 covers, virtually every aspect of economic governance and economic development.

b)- Also to give you a sense of the amount of activity this entails in terms of the major economies of the world staying in almost constant contact on matters of common interests.

From our perspective, our priorities of this G20 Summit are going to be, the cross-border mobility of professionals, particularly in services, the reduction in remittance costs from overseas Indians, poverty eradication, moderation in consumption and more sustainable lifestyles and improved technology access particularly for renewable and post-harvest agriculture activities.

These, as you can see, are fairly obvious issues of interest to India given the stage of our economic development and our particular situation and we will continue to pursue these.

As part of our G20 efforts we have also been supporting measures directed against terrorism, in particular terrorism finance and corruption. We have also supported measures regarding global tax administration in the context of tax evasion and tax avoidance, but also in terms of improving global taxation governance in general.

Matters related to climate finance are also being pursued through G20. There is a G20 working group on Climate Finance and Green Finance. On Green Finance, we have stressed the point that the definition of Green Finance is still to be agreed. It is still to be the subject of consensus and therefore our approach on this is that we look at it from the perspective of Climate-friendly Finance.

There has been an initiative taken on G20 this year pertaining to anti-microbial resistance in terms of new antibiotics. We have participated in this and our particular points are, we have advocated the concepts of affordability and market access for antibiotics as major criteria of interest to us so as to incentivize R&D but to also ensure that antibiotics are actually affordable and accessible to those who need them.

I had wanted to give you a quick rundown on the G20 Summit and I'll be happy to answer any questions, if there should be any. Thank you.

Official Spokesperson, Shri Vikas Swarup: The floor is now open for questions on the G20 Summit.

Question:Hosting of G20 is rotational in nature. When does India get to host? Could you tell us about the bilateral meetings that Prime Minister will have with the BRICS leaders as well as with Mr. Obama and others?

Secretary (West), Ms. Sujata Mehta:The membership of the G20 is divided into what they call as baskets and the rotation, as you pointed out, goes between the baskets. The particular basket to which India belongs will be up for hosting the summit in 2019.

Typically summits of G20 are decided two years in advance so at this point we know where summit will be in 2017 and 2018. The issue of the hosting of the summit in 2019 will be determined at some point in 2017, so that is where we are in terms of hosting the summit.

In terms of the bilaterals, as far as I know, there will be the customary meeting with the host of the summit. So there will be, I believe, a meeting with the President of China, who is the host.

I think other bilateral are still in the process of being worked out because the way the schedule is, it is actually a very very tight schedule and access to meeting sites is very strictly limited.

So typically the experience is that the bilateral summits tend to be on the margins of, in the meeting room themselves they have, what they call 'Pull Asides.' So I guess that is the sort of arrangement that will happen.

The BRICS Summit is again something which is done, it's like a small meeting of BRICS leaders, which typically held on the margins of G20 Summit. This time it is going to be, I believe, on the morning of the 4 soon after the delegations arrive. That is really the way it will be.

Question:I want to know the progress on CRS on automatic exchange of information and the BEPS project. Number two is, will there be a talk on terror financing and terrorism?

Secretary (West), Ms. Sujata Mehta:I believe the BEPS project willcertainly be discussed.The automatic exchange on tax information is actually a convention which is being shepherded through the G20 and the OECD. And as you know we have signed the convention and we are hoping others will join as well. I can't tell you about what the exact number of countries that have adhered to the convention is but it is fairly large.

As far as terror financing is concerned. Yes, it is part of the discussions that will be held. These issues figure in the communique which has been negotiated, the draft is still being worked on in Hangzhou they are going to carry on discussing it today into tomorrow. But all these issues will figure up.

Question:India has certain concerns viz-a-viz Intellectual Property Rights. Could you please elaborate on it and what is the focus that is there?

Secretary (West), Ms. Sujata Mehta:Let me put it like this G20 is a pre-eminent economic forum. Therefore, we do express our concerns regarding IPRs but it is not the only forum where we pursue our interest.We do this across all the venues where these are discussed including the WIPO (The World Intellectual Property Organization) and the World Trade Organization. So this is a concern and we always express our views on this as we will in the G20.

You see, the G20 it is not as though, IPR would be an agenda item in the G20. The way the conversation goes these subjects are touched on in the course of the discussions and as I said we express our views on these subjects in the G20 and in other forums where these are the subject of discussion.

Question:Besides economic issues, issues like South China Sea will also be taken up during the summit?

Secretary (West), Ms. Sujata Mehta:Let me again say that when leaders of big countries meet, they discuss all subjects. But the agenda of G20 is mainly related to economic issues and the issues of global economic governance. Nothing stops leaders from saying what they wish to. But the focus at G20 is clearly on Economic issues.

Official Spokesperson:This concludes the briefing on G20. Thank you very much.

Official Spokesperson, Shri Vikas Swarup: ……to invite Secretary (East) Smt. Preeti Saran to give you a briefing on Prime Minister's bilateral visit to Vietnam and then a bit later to the visit to Lao PDR for the ASEAN-India Summit and the East Asia Summit.

I think she already answered that, you will have to wait for the transcript. The one bilateral that we are confirming right now is the bilateral with the President of China because that is customary. He is the host of G20 Summit and it is always customary to the host to meet all the top leaders who are coming.

I think the Prime Minister's meeting with President Xi is very soon after the arrival and as far other meetings, they are really time dependent. They depend on whether the Board Leaders are able to finish their interventions before a particular time so typically we do not give out advance information on who is meeting who because if the meeting does not happen then people read other meanings, the meeting was supposed to be held and it did not happen and things like that.

I now welcome Secretary (East) and her strong delegation including JS (South) and JS (ASEAN-ML).

Tomorrow as you know, Prime Minister is meeting President el-Sisi of Egypt and immediately thereafter he will leave for airport to depart for Vietnam where we will arrive late, tomorrow night. So 3 September will be the main day for bilateral meetings in Vietnam, which is a very important partner. To brief you first on the important bilateral visit to Vietnam, I give the floor to Secretary (East).

Secretary (East), Ms. Preeti Saran:Thank you Vikas and thank you all for joining us here this afternoon for this briefing. I will begin with Prime Minister's visit to Vietnam that is taking place, as Vikas mentioned, from 2 to 3 of September and then I'll also like to brief you about Hon'ble Prime Minister's visit to Laos, to Vientiane, where he will be attending the India-ASEAN Summit and he will be going there from 7to 8 September. He will attend the 14 India-ASEAN Summit followed by the 11 East Asia Summit.

I will start with the Vietnam visit. As you know, Vietnam is an important strategic partner for India and when Prime Minister goes, he will meet the top most leadership of the country, which includes Mr.Nguyen Phu Trong, the General Secretary of the Communist Party of Vietnam, President Trần Đại Quang, Prime Minister Nguyễn Xuân Phúc and the Chairperson of the National Assembly MadamNguyễn Thị Kim Ngân.

These are new leaders, Vietnam had their elections to Communist Party Congress, which was held in January so this provides an opportunity for the Hon'ble Prime Minister to meet with the new leadership following the Party Congress and National Assembly elections which were held in March this year.

This would be the first bilateral visit at the level of our Prime Minister to Vietnam in last 15 years. The last such bilateral visit took place when the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee went in 2001.

Dr. Manmohan Singh had visited Vietnam, Hanoi for India-ASEAN Summit in 2010. The visit takes place at an important time when next year we would be celebrating the 45 Anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations with Vietnam and 10anniversary of our strategic partnership with Vietnam.

Vietnam also happens to be the country coordinator for India in the ASEAN for this year and for the next two years and therefore that also has an importance.

Our relations with Vietnam are characterized by warmth and high degree of trust. To use a quotation from a former Prime Minister of Vietnam, 'India-Vietnam relations are like a clear blue sky without any clouds.'

Vietnam is the central pillar of India's Act East policy and our priorities for cooperation range in a whole host of areas including Defence and Security, Trade and Investment, in Maritime Cooperation, in Energy Resources, in integrating ourselves to the ASEAN community and for leveraging our interactions on regional and international forums.

We work very closely with Vietnam in ASEAN of course, but also in the Mekong-Ganga Cooperation in the ASEAN Regional Forum, in the ASEAN's Defence Ministers Meeting plus in East Asia Summit and at the United Nations. At the UN, Vietnam has been supportive of India's membership to an expanded United Nations Security Council.

In the non-permanent candidature we have offered reciprocal support to Vietnam for the year 2020-21 and for India in 21-22. Defence and security cooperation with Vietnam is very robust and it includes areas like counter terrorism, trans-national crimes. In Defence Cooperation, our focus have been on capacity building, training, high level exchanges and, more recently, defence procurement.

Our bilateral trade with Vietnam has been growing at almost 26 percent pa in the last few years and today it stands at 7.8 billion dollars. We have surplus trade with Vietnam to the tune of 2.8 billion dollars. We have, our leaders last time that they had met, had agreed to set up a trade target of 15 billion dollars by 2020.

The areas that we focus on our trade relationship are Textiles, Machinery, Pharmaceuticals, IT and other Services sectors. India is also an important investor in Vietnam.

Presently we have invested in oil and gas exploration, in agro processing, sugar, IT etc. and it stands at about 1 billion plus dollars. Those of you who follow India-Vietnam relations would be aware that Tata Power is in the process of implementing 1320 MW Thermal Power Plant in Soc Trangprovince of South Vietnam which is about 1.8 billion dollars investment and we feel that once that project is successfully implemented, certainly, it will encourage more investments and certainly it will also bring India as one of the Top Ten investors in Vietnam.

Apart from trade and investment, India has traditionally provided support to Vietnam in several areas including, in extending lines of credit for infrastructure and the agriculture sector. We have also helped set up institutions for example there is an Advance Resource Center in ICT in Hanoi that is established with Indian assistance, there is another one which is Entrepreneur Development Center, also in Hanoi. Under the ASEAN framework there is an English Language Speaking Center, there is a high performing computing facility and a cyber-forensic lab.

Multilaterally, apart from ASEAN, we have also assisted Vietnam in the IBSA context. We are doing two projects, one was already completed which is on rice seed research in Danang, in Central Vietnam and there is another one that is ongoing, in telemedicine in Haiphong in North Vietnam.

In addition to our cooperation and development assistance program, that I have just outlined, connectivity and people-to-people contacts are very important elements of our cooperation with Vietnam. We provide 150 ITEC scholarships and another 50 scholarships from ICCR to Vietnam. Perhaps this is the largest scholarship programs that we provide to a country beyond our immediate neighborhood.

In addition to that there are historical civilizational ties. Champa civilization has its influence very visible there and these are obvious in the Champ monuments in Central Vietnam, in Quang Nam province. The Archaeological Survey of India has seen these temples and we have offered our assistance in restoration of this temple complex some of which was destroyed during the American war period.

We have plans to open a culture center for which the modalities are being worked out. We have, in anticipation of culture center, already sent a yoga teacher and yoga happens to be a very important element that binds us culturally together. The two consecutive International Yoga days of Yoga that were celebrated last year and this year have created a much wider awareness and enthusiasm for yoga.

The other civilization and historical linkages that we have with Vietnam is in the area of Buddhism. There is a resurgence, renewed interest and certainly we have been training a lot Buddhist monks and scholars.

Indian television programs, in particular, Balika Vadhu is very very popular there, some others are also very popular in Vietnam. Indian cinema is very popular. Those are the elements which help in cementing close people-to-people ties.

We are in the process of discussing all these areas. I gave you a broad brush picture just to give you an idea how broad and robust our collaboration and cooperation with Vietnam is and we hope that when our Prime Minister visits Vietnam and he meets the leadership, as a result of the discussions, some important agreements would be signed. There is still work in progress and we will keep you informed as the visit progresses.

Now, I move on to India-ASEAN Summit which will be held on the morning of 8 September followed by the East Asia Summit. Around the same time ASEAN member countries, there are ten of them, they hold one after the another, Summit Meetings with their dialogue partners and India is one of the privileged partners at the Summit level relationship.

The 14 India-ASEAN Summit which will be held in Vientiane, the capital of Lao PDR and it will be followed by the 11East Asia Summit. This is the third time that our Hon'ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi is actually participating in the India-ASEAN and East Asia Summit. You would remember last year the same thing was held in Kuala Lumpur and before that it was in Myanmar.

ASEAN is central to India's Act East Policy and it was enunciated by our Prime Minister in Myanmar in 2014. Both the summits, the East Asia Summit as well as India-ASEAN Summit provides a very important platform to reiterate the importance of our partnership with ASEAN and with wider Asia-Pacific region.

ASEAN is a diverse but very successful regional grouping which is the seventh largest economy. It has third largest market. Its GDP is about 2.5 trillion dollars and its average growth rate is 4.6 percent per annum. There are individual countries in ASEAN that are growing even faster and Vietnam is one of them. I think the growth rate of Vietnam is 6.7 percent.

India became a sectorial dialogue partner in 1992 and full dialogue partner in 1996 and then we had summit level contacts with them from 2002. In 2012 we entered into a strategic partnership with ASEAN.

Just to give you an idea of how the relationship has evolved and the growing importance of your engagement with ASEAN, we have about 30 dialogue mechanisms across different sectors in ASEAN presided over by an annual summit where our Prime Minister would be attending.

In addition to that we have seven ministerial level interactions which range from foreign ministers, in July we had foreign ministers meeting, in August we had our MoS for Commerce and Industry attend Economic Ministers Meeting. In addition to that there is ministerial level participation in Agriculture, in Tourism, in Telecommunications, in Environment and in New and Renewable Energy.

At the upcoming ASEAN-India Summit, the ten countries and our Prime Minister will review the progress of growth in our relationship across the three pillars of our interaction with ASEAN. These are the Political Security, Economic and Socio-Cultural cooperation.

We have drawn five yearly plans of action and currently we are in the process of implementing third plan of action which runs from 2016 to 2020.

India is scaling up its cooperation with ASEAN in the Political Security sphere primarily focused on traditional and non-traditional security challenges in the region. We look forward to work closely with ASEAN on counter-terrorism, anti-piracy, cyber-security and maritime issues.

The first India-ASEAN Summit that will take place after the ASEAN Economic Community came into existence in December last year and next year we would be celebration 25 anniversary of our partnership with ASEAN. So this particular summit provides an important opportunity for our Prime Minister and the leaders of ASEAN to discuss and review how far we have gone and what is it that we could do to enhance our relationship with the ASEAN region.

Our bilateral trade with ASEAN, with all the ten countries put together, is 64.04 billion dollars and it comprises about 10.12 percent of our global trade. There is a great scope of further increase in trade volume and we have mechanism for reviewing our trade and goods.

Last year we had also activated our ASEAN-India trade in Services Investment. We are really moving to ASEAN-India free trade area which has provided the instruments and the opportunity for our businesses to work closer together. It has also provided an opportunity for the businesses on both sides to be part of value chain and production networks.

Separately, when I talk about East Asia Summit though it's not exactly part of that, you would be following on trade negotiations. We are also negotiating with ten ASEAN countries and India plus five other countries i.e. Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership. That again provides another opportunity for providing these enabling instruments for improving our trade, our investment and enhancing our economic cooperation.

Our investments form ASEAN from the period 2007 to 2015 have totaled approximately 32.4 billion dollars which accounts for nearly 13 percent of total FDI equity flows into India and Indian investment into ASEAN during the same period was about 38.6 billion dollars.

We support ASEAN's centrality in all our interactions in the region, in the Asia-Pacific region where whether it is in the East Asia Summit, whether it is in ASEAN's Defence Ministers Meeting plus or the ASEAN Regional Forum, which is a grouping of 27 countries and the Expanded ASEAN Maritime Forum.

The initiative for ASEAN integration, as part of this particular initiative, to help in capacity building in the ICT, in English language courses, in Space and in Renewable Energy.

The focus of all our developmental assistance so far has been on the CLMV countries i.e. Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar and Vietnam. We have, to help in our development programs and projects, constituted three separate funds. One is India-ASEAN Cooperation Fund which has a corpus of about 50 million dollars. Another one is ASEAN-India Green Fund of 5 million dollars and ASEAN-India Science and Technology Fund for another 5 million dollars. These provide us the opportunity to identify projects where we can collaborate.

In addition to that, last year you would remember, when Prime Minister was in Kuala Lumpur he had announce a 1 billion dollar line of credit for physical and digital connectivity to ASEAN countries.

We have given concrete proposals which include areas such as fiber-optic projects and broadband networks on telemedicine and tele-education. In addition to that we are already bilaterally, trilaterally and otherwise working on two very important connectivity projects. One is Trilateral Highway which runs from India to Myanmar to Thailand and then of course there is the Kaladan Multi Modal Project.

We regard our partnership with ASEAN as an important element to develop the North-Eastern states of India as well and we think that the North-Eastern states of India is an important gateway to ASEAN. It has after all land connectivity with Myanmar. In any case, ASEAN is our extended neighbor.

We have maritime neighborhood with Thailand and Indonesia in ASEAN. People-to-people contacts, just as is important in Vietnam, is equally important for other ASEAN countries with all of whom we have very close historical links for same reasons like Buddhism, civilizational ties with Buddhism and Hinduism and other aspects as well.

We are all plural tolerant society and that binds us all together. We have offered ITEC Scholarship programs to other ASEAN countries. We have instituted, what is called, a Delhi Dialogue which is a 1.5 forum and there is another network of think tanks.

We have also established an ASEAN-India Center. Recently on 8 August we inaugurated the ASEAN-India Study Center at the North-East Hilly University. I am giving you these examples so that you know how at the academic level, at the think tank level, we want to continue this collaboration.

An important focus of our Prime Minister's meeting with the ten ASEAN leaders would be to review what has taken place so far, how is it that we can work better and how is that we could mark the 25anniversary of our partnership with what are the activities to further enhance this collaboration.

I now move onto the next summit which is East Asia Summit which will take place also on the 8 September soon after the India-ASEAN Summit is over.

The East Asia Summit comprises of ten ASEAN countries and another eight countries which includes India, China, USA, Russia, New Zealand, Australia, Japan and Republic of Korea. This is a leaders led forum in the Asia-Pacific region and it comprises of 55 percent of the world population and 55 percent of the global GDP as well. So you can see how important it is as a grouping and how important it is for our leaders to meet annually.

India is the founding member of the East Asia Summit. This was established in 2005 and consistently since 2005, the Prime Minister has attended the East Asia Summit. This would be the 11 East Asia Summit that the Indian Prime Minister would attend.

In the month of July, prior to East Asia Summit, we have just had a Foreign Ministers Meeting of the East Asia partner countries and a Trade Ministers Meeting in the month of August.

The important initiative that India has announced and taken in the East Asia Forum, the foremost is Talanda University. We have also established a virtual knowledge portal on disaster management. I think that's an important area for collaboration and a web portal on trauma care.

The annual East Asia Summit provides an opportunity for leaders to exchange views and assess regional and international issues of concern including tradition and non-traditional security threats primarily, terrorism, which is a scourge that plagues us all and India has been a major victim there, maritime security, non-proliferation etc.

The East Asia Summit also reviews six priority areas. These are Education, Energy and Environment, Finance, Pandemics, Disaster Management and Mitigation and Connectivity.

Again this is work in progress, we expect the chair, it is Laos this year, to issue a chair-statement at the end of the discussions after the leaders have met. There might be separate individual statements but they are still in the process of evolving so I will stop here and would be happy to take questions.

Official Spokesperson, Shri Vikas Swarup:Thank you Secretary (East) on that various comprehensive briefing on both the bilateral visit to Vietnam as well as on the two important summits in Vientiane.

I also have with me Ms. Pooja Kapoor who is Joint Secretary (ASEAN Multilateral) and Mr. Jaideep Mazumdar who is Joint Secretary (South), so the floor is now open for questions.

Question:Mam could just update us on the status of oil exploration project with Vietnam and also, is the sale of Brahmos missiles is on the cards?

Secretary (West), Ms. Sujata Mehta:As far as the oil exploration is concerned we have been in Vietnam from the eighties and currently ONGC Videsh Ltd has invested in block 6.1, which is a productive block. There are negotiations going on for another block which is 1.28. We expect negotiations on that to continue positively.

In addition to that, Petro Vietnam have offered additional blocks, but negotiations are going on so I would not be in a position today, but may towards the end of the visit we should be able to share if there is anything concrete.

In addition to oil exploration we have had discussions in the last two years on our interest in participating in mid-stream and down-stream projects as well. We have had delegation from Indian Oil Corporation and other Indian companies visiting Vietnam, holding discussions. There is a CondensH project that we have been discussing, that is as far as energy sector is concerned.

On your other question, as I mentioned in my initial remarks that we have a very robust defense cooperation focused on capacity building, training. You may remember that recently when our Rashtrapati Ji had visited in 2014, a 100 million dollar line of credit for patrol boats was announced and we expect there is a growing interest in defense procurement from India. We are prepared to look at all aspects of this relationship and we are in discussions with Vietnam.

Question:Madam, Prime Minister is going at a time when lots of issues like the South China Sea issue, which is one of the most important for the whole region and all the countries of ASEAN, China as well as the East Asia are involved in the issue. Do you think the Prime Minister is going to take some stand on this issue that is perturbing the whole region?

Secretary (West), Ms. Sujata Mehta:Our stand on South China Sea is very well known. As you know, we are committed to and we have always advocated freedom of navigation, of over flights and of un-impeded commerce. We feel that all disputes should be resolved peacefully in keeping with international obligations and threat or use of force is avoidable.

There are overlapping claims that are disputes. Our official spokesperson had commented on the 12 of July about response to the arbitral tribunal. We hope India is parties to UNCLOS and we hope full respect for UCLOS.

As far as Vietnam is concerned, they have appreciated our own position and how we have resolved our own maritime boundary with Bangladesh. So our position is well known and we would be reiterating that.

Question:Once you are going there, the Prime Minister will again raise this issue?

Secretary (West), Ms. Sujata Mehta:It is bound to be discussed in East Asia Summit because that is a forum where we discuss regional and international issues and of course we will be discussing it with all the leaders present there.

Question:What is the progress on Special Purpose Vehicle for CLMV countries which was announced in the previous budget?

Secretary (West), Ms. Sujata Mehta:Yes, it was announced in the previous budget and it is being coordinated by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and I have been informed they are in the process of drawing up the modalities of which is called 'Project Development Fund.' I think they are still not clear if to call it Special Purpose Vehicle. It is a Project Development Fund intended for the CLMV countries which will encourage and certainly assist Indian companies to invest in these four countries.

My colleague tells me, it is apparently under discussion and we will hear from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry soon on this one. But yes we are drawing up the modalities.

Question:The connectivity that we are talking about with ASEAN, is it something on the lines of what we are doing in Africa, hospitals and internet connectivity and all that? Number two, there was a proposal that was being discussed to provide direct connectivity between India and Vietnam. When are the flights going to start? They wanted us to train their pilots to fly Sukhoi planes, has there been any progress on that?

Secretary (West), Ms. Sujata Mehta:You have asked three questions. First one is on connectivity. As far as connectivity is concerned, when we look at connectivity, connecting to the entire ASEAN region, we look at physical connectivity through land, sea and air. There is work in progress in each of these.

We are also looking at digital connectivity, we look at people-to-people contacts, we look at cultural connectivity. So everything that I have outlined, as part of our collaboration, whether it is bilaterally with Vietnam or in the multilateral forum of ASEAN. I think, each of our programs, somehow, enhances our physical connectivity, our cultural, economic and people-to-people contact. It is work in progress.

On your second question about Vietnam and direct flights, we have an air services agreement with them. In 2014, Jet Airways has started flights, but they were not direct, they were via Bangkok. We are constantly encouraging airlines, both in India and Vietnam to look at the opportunities and there are growing opportunities especially with tourism.

You would remember that last year we had announced e-visa i.e. electronic visa for all the ten ASEAN countries and the Buddhist circuit is a very important circuit for tourists form ASEAN countries. Indians again are great travelers and they travel to several ASEAN countries. Vietnam per se, we can provide the instruments which are in position, air services agreement is there. We hope that the airlines, both from Indian side as well as from the Vietnamese side, will look at the market and get it going.

On the Sukhoi training issue, yes there is an ongoing discussion. We have been in discussions with Vietnam. We have a very strong composite package for the training of the Navy and we are now discussing area of collaboration among the air forces.

Question:My question is a follow up question of Brahmos missile. Vietnam has publicly requested India to supply this missile to their forces. Is India giving any consideration to this?

Secretary (West), Ms. Sujata Mehta:I think I clarified what we have a very robust conversation going on with the government of Vietnam and we are prepared to look at all areas of cooperation when it is raised.

Question:It is a repetitive question, but still I will ask. On Secretary Kerry's remarks on the South China Sea, he almost welcomed it and he said that China should learn from India's respect for the international tribunal. I just want to ask you, the growing strategic and defense cooperation between India and Vietnam, could this be link to checking China's assertiveness in the region and in the coming days will India and Vietnam play a greater role in the South-East Asia. How important will India's role to bring these countries together?

Secretary (West), Ms. Sujata Mehta:I have to tell you that India-Vietnam relations and you mentioned the strategic partnership, is a very very strong relationship at it goes back to centuries. Without giving history lesson, I did mention about the Cham monuments etc.

In more modern times, let's say in last century and in the current century, after Vietnam had the Dien Bien Phu victory of 1954 over the French, Indian Prime Minister was the first international leader to visit Vietnam.

When both our countries were fighting for Independence, our leaders were in touch with each other and supported each other through our independence movement.

During the war years when Vietnam was fighting the American war and others we have constantly provided support at a time when there were international sanctions on Vietnam, India supported Vietnam. So you can see our relationship goes back to centuries, in modern times it is very strong, it stands on its own, it is an issues-free relationship.

In modern times, the support that we have provided through their period of struggle, it is a robust economy. It is a story which is exemplary. A war torn country to have clocked almost 10 percent growth per annum for two decades consistently and to be able to pull itself out from abject poverty to a middle income country is an inspiration for us.

We feel it is an important partner for us in economic cooperation so when we call them our strategic partner, we go back to the support that we have provided each other traditionally and we build upon it in all areas whether it is defense, security, economic, political or cultural. Please view the India-Vietnam relationship on its own merit, it stands on its own.

Question:As you have mentioned that for the connectivity with the North-East, Kaladan project is very important. Every year we see the deadline of this project is deferred. There are some indigenous people who are creating problems, resistance of the binding of the river and the roads. So what is the status now and how soon will the project be completed?

Secretary (West), Ms. Sujata Mehta:As I am aware it is on track. Certainly there have been issues, but we are solving these bilaterally with Myanmar because that is the other country through with the Kaladan project is to be implemented and I am confident that will be able to keep the timelines that we have looked at.

Question:OVL has been engaged in oil exploration projects in Vietnam for last few years. So in the wake of the verdict by the International Court of Arbitration, is India looking at ramping up its oil exploration projects in South China Sea?

Secretary (West), Ms. Sujata Mehta:OVL has been participating in oil exploration projects in Vietnam not in last few years, but since 1980s. It has been there for quite some time and when OVL participates in oil and gas exploration and other Indian companies participate in mid-stream and down-stream projects, they do it with a view to securing our energy requirement as part of our energy security issue.

Question:Mam, aapne kaha Vietnam mein jo temples hain aur jo architectures hain, unko restore karne ka India ka plan hai. Uske baare mein elaborate kar sakengi?

Secretary (West), Ms. Sujata Mehta:Vahan par Cham monuments hain aur dakshin Vietnam mein kai aur monuments bhi hain, Champa civilization se similar hain. 2014 mein jab Vientnam ke Pradhanmantri yahan aaye the to humne ek MoU sign kiya tha uske tahat Archaeological Survey of India ne decide kiya tha ki, Danang ke pass Mỹ Sơnmein, uska ek temple complex hum log restore karenge kyonki jo mandir hain wahan par woh usi tarah ke hain jo usi age ke vintage temple hamare yahan hain.

We are working on the modalities on how to work on it. Just as a matter of interest for you, the Mỹ SơnTemples which are there in Quảng Namprovince of Danang is a popular beach resort also known for the American war days. Quảng Namis also the province from where the present Prime Minister Mr. Nguyễn Xuân Phúccomes from. He has an emotional commitment to it as well.

Question:You have spoken a lot about Vietnam and very little about Laos. The fact is there is no consensus over South China Sea between Laos and Vietnam since they both are leading two different blocks. Vietnam and Philippines are very eager for a statement from ASEAN however ASEAN did not issue a statement on the PCS verdict. How are you going to create a consensus in these two blocks since you are visiting these two countries?

Secretary (West), Ms. Sujata Mehta:When we deal with ASEAN, we deal with ASEAN as one entity, a grouping of ten member states. It is for the ASEAN members to resolve their own internal differences. What we have done constantly at every stage, has been to support the centrality of ASEAN in its role in the Asia-Pacific region. We stand for and constantly support ASEAN's unity and ASEAN's centrality and we will continue to do that. Thank you Very Much.

Official Spokesperson, Shri Vikas Swarup:This concludes the press briefing on the Prime Minister's visit to Vietnam, the East Asia Summit and the India-ASEAN Summit. Thank you all.

I thank Secretary (East), JS (South) and JS (ASEAN - ML)

Now I will resume the regular press briefing. I have just one announcement before we dive into the Q & A session.

Following the First Round of the trilateral meeting between Afghanistan, India and Iran held in New Delhi last April, the Second round of the DG-level meeting of the three countries was held in Tehran yesterday i.e. 31 August 2016 which was hosted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Islamic Republic of Iran.

In the meeting a wide range of issues of common interest were discussed by the three parties including the recent developments in the region and the trilateral political, economic, transit and cultural cooperation.

Discussing the situation in the region and Afghanistan, the three parties emphasized the need for regional cooperation to counter current and emerging threats of terrorism and extremism.

In regard to the recent trilateral agreement signed by the three countries in May 2016 in Tehran on development of transit routes to Afghanistan and the region through the port of Chabahar, it was agreed that, in preparation for use of Chabahar to this end, some specialized meetings and seminars be organized for relevant experts and representatives from trade and industry and the recommendations of these meetings be reviewed in the next Meeting of the Director-Generals, which will be held in Kabul.

The three parties also explored possible grounds for cooperation in the Heart of Asia-Istanbul Process.

That concludes my only announcement, the floor is now open for questions.

Question:Nawaz Sharif recently appointed his 22 parliamentarians as special envoy to Kashmir to highlight the issue all over the world. Do you have any response and what is the status of Foreign Secretary's proposed visit to Islamabad?

Official Spokesperson, Shri Vikas Swarup:Sending out 22 Envoys is not going to make their baseless and untenable claims legitimate. I would say that instead of sending 22 Envoys with the wrong message to the wrong countries, it would have been better just to send one Envoy with the right message to the right country. The message obviously has to be one of stopping support to cross-border terrorism, ending incitement to violence in Jammu and Kashmir and putting an end to interference in India's internal affairs.

Question:A week from now, I understand the Prime Minister of Nepal is visiting India. He will be here sometime around 15 or 16. Looking at the strained relations we had with the previous government, what do you expect from the visit?

Official Spokesperson, Shri Vikas Swarup:You may understand the he is coming, but I am not in a position to confirm that officially. All I would say is that when Prime Minister had complimented Prime Minister Prachanda on assuming the office, he did invite him to visit India.

The invitation was accepted by Prime Minister Prachanda and he will be visiting India shortly, but as you know these visits have to be announced in conjunction i.e. both sides have to make simultaneous announcements so I am not in a position at this point in time to confirm that visit, apart from saying that yes, the visit will happen in the near future.

With Nepal we have very broad base cooperation underpinned by centuries old civilizational ties and people-to-people linkages so I expect the entire gamut of issues relating to development cooperation.

Prime Minister Prachanda is very keen for re-construction assistance in the wake of the earthquake, to start in earnest. We have promised them a lot of money, but nothing has been utilized so far hence I expect those issues will be taken up.

The development projects that we have like Terai roads and other projects, power trade agreement. We expect all those to figure and of course we will get a briefing from him, what are his priorities and how he sees his own role in expediting progress and development in Nepal.

Question:My question is on Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif. Nafees Zakaria mentioned in his press conference some time ago that Nawaz Sharif has yet again written a letter to United Nations Secretary General in which he says that Prime Minister Narendra Modi talking about Balochistan is completely unwarranted.

He has also said that between the Indian side of Kashmir and Pakistan Occupied Kashmir, there can be no comparison at all and also saying that India setting some conditions for dialogue process between India and Pakistan.

How do you react on this and as I mentioned Pakistan's Prime Minister just visited Balochistan today. He was at the Gwadar port to launch five developmental projects. What is India's position on the CPEC in the context of recent protests by people in Balochistan and Pakistan Occupied Kashmir?

Official Spokesperson, Shri Vikas Swarup:As far as the latest letter written to the United Nations Secretary General, as I said, these are things that we have seen before and I have mentioned in the previous briefing that they can write as many letters as they want to, this will not change the reality on the ground.

The reality on the ground is Jammu & Kashmir is an integral part of India and a part of Indian Jammu & Kashmir is under the forcible and illegal occupation of Pakistan.

As far as the internal situation in Jammu & Kashmir is concerned, we believe Pakistan has no locus standi commenting on that. We are perfectly capable of dealing with that.

In so far as China Pakistan Economic Corridor is concerned, there also our position has been made very clear to both the parties concerned that it passes through Indian Sovereign Territory under Pakistan's illegal occupation.

When we say POK, it is exactly that, it is Pakistan Occupied Kashmir, it is part of Indian Territory and we would obviously have concerns about any project happening there with any third party collaboration.

Question:There are reports about Indians getting infected by the Zika virusin Singapore. Do you have anything on this?

Official Spokesperson, Shri Vikas Swarup:I can confirm that as of 12 noon on 30 August 2016, 13 Indian nationals are being treated for the Zika virus in Singapore.

This information has now officially been conveyed to us by the Singapore Ministry of Health. According to them these patients are showing mild symptoms and have either recovered or are recovering. Their recovery process is being monitored closely. Due to patient confidentiality, the Singapore authorities are unable, at this stage, to share details of these patients without their consent. The cases seem to be localized in a defined area as per the Singapore Ministry of Health.

Our Mission is in constant and close touch with the Ministry of Health of Singapore and will continue to follow up to ensure that Indian Nationals receive full medical support.

Question:In Brazil new government has taken over and a BRICS summit is going to happen in October, so do you think it will impact BRICS agenda some way or the other or relations with Brazil?

Official Spokesperson, Shri Vikas Swarup:No, I have already answered this question long ago that when the BRICS Summit was announced, it was a collective decision of all five parties and all five parties remain committed to honor the date for the BRICS Summit, which as you know, is going to be held in Goa on 15 and 16 October and we expect participation from the new President of Brazil.

Question:Afghanistan and Iran also have stakes in the Balochistan issue so when the trilateral happened was the issue of change in Balochistan policy of India was discussed?

Official Spokesperson, Shri Vikas Swarup:Look the Afghanistan-Iran trilateral was not to discuss that particular issue, it was to discuss cooperation among the three, developments in the region and as I mentioned development of Chabahar port which is going to benefit all three countries and a wider region as such.

Question:Is there any decision on India's participation in upcoming NAM summit in Venezuela?

Official Spokesperson, Shri Vikas Swarup:The decision on the level of our participation is yet to be taken.

Question:American Videsh Mantri John Kerry abhi bhi Bharat mein hain. Unke schedule mein koi badlaav hua hai ya unke engagements abhi badhe hain, is sandarbh mein ko jaankaari mil sakegi kya?

Official Spokesperson, Shri Vikas Swarup:Kal jaise ki unke state department ke prakta ne spasht kiya ki Shri Kerry Ji ko nirdesh diya gaya tha ki woh yahan se seedhe Hangzhou jayen jahan woh Rashtrapati Obama ko join karenge. Is wajah se unhone socha ki waapis America jayen aur fir is ilaake mein waapis aane se achha hai ki yahin se woh direct chale jayen.

Jahan tak unke yahan engagements ka prashn hai, ye to aapko American dutawas se hi poochhna padega. Hamare pass abhi adhikarik taur par koi jaankaari nahi hai.

Question:Did the Americans in the talks between John Kerry and Sushma Swaraj, at any point, ask India to try and move forward for a dialogue with Pakistan?

Did India raise the issue that it has in terms of the Pakistan Occupied Kashmir or Balochistan with America because that's a concern we have been raising. Have you raised it with the Americans?

Why did the India-Afghanistan-US trilateral stop after 2013, which is to be resumed now?

Official Spokesperson, Shri Vikas Swarup:Again you have asked more than one question.

As far as the dialogue between visiting US dignitaries Secretary Kerry and Secretary Pritzker is concerned, you would have seen the very comprehensive joint statement that we have put out.

India-Pakistan relations were not discussed. Of course, Pakistan's support to terrorism was discussed and as you know it was referenced also in the joint statement. We have a very strong paragraph on Pakistan stopping support to cross-border terrorism, bringing to justice the perpetrators of the Mumbai terror attacks of 2008 and the Pathankot terror attack of 2016.

There was also a reference that both countries will work closely on terrorist designations and the US indicated its willingness to consider fresh listings of terror groups which indulge in cross-border terrorism.

I think the full spread of bilateral relationship is itself sufficient to engage both sides in a very constructive way. You would have seen the very vast area that the joint statement covered and the discussions covered from defense to space to agriculture to science and technology, to trade and investment, people to people ties, visa issues. Everything was really discussed but the issue that you are seeking information on was not raised.

Further, the trilateral started in 2012, another round was held in 2013 and then may be for scheduling reasons and other reasons it could not meet for two years. Now it is going to meet again in 2016 on the margins of the UNGA.

Question:Jo sawal abhi thodi der pehle poochha gaya usmein ek crucial part ye hai ki Nawaz Sharif ne chitthi jo Ban Ki Moon ko doosari baar likhi hai usmein categorically ye likha hai ki Pradhan Mantri Narendra Modi ka Balochistan aur Pakistan Occupied Kashmir par bayaan totally unwarranted hai aur UN Charter ke khilaaf hai. Is par aapki kya pratikriya hai, unhone Pradhan Mantri ke bayaan par aapatti darj karaai hai?

Official Spokesperson, Shri Vikas Swarup:Yadi Maanvaadhikar par, jinko kuchla ja raha hai, jinko dabaya ja raha hai, uske baare mein bolna galat hai to mere khyal se Vishwa ke kai desh aur kai netaon ko kathghare mein khada hona padega.

Jaise ki Videsh Sachiv ne haal hee mein ek bayaan me kaha tha ki 'Humanity does not stop at our borders.'

If we feel strongly about human rights violations happening in a particular part of the world then we have every rights to raise those concerns, we will raise those concerns, we have raised those concerns in the past also.

In fact what is blatant interference is cross-border terrorism which Pakistan has been indulging in again and again repeatedly. The capture of terrorist Bahadur Ali is live example of what is actual interference in our country's internal affairs where you are sending people armed to the hilt with the direct objective of creating mayhem and terror in another country, that is real interference and that is what Pakistan needs to stop.

Question:There have been reports that state run media is planning to start Baloch bulletins. Is there synchronized campaign or has any decision been taken that India will officially raise the voice of the Baloch people at global fora?

Official Spokesperson, Shri Vikas Swarup:As you know the information in cultural space in South Asia has a lot of commonalities and the All India Radio already provides services in a number of foreign and Indian languages.

To the best of my knowledge they provide services in 27 foreign languages and 12 Indian languages including in South Asia to an abiding audience for a number of years. Of course fresh services can be added or existing services can be augmented depending on the demand so I think we have to look at it purely from that perspective.

Question:This is supplement on the CPEC issue. When you look at the UN Kashmir resolution, it clearly mentions that those people who are normally not found in the region i.e. POK must be go back before India recovers POK and it refers to the Pathans and outsiders who had come at that time. Do you think Chinese who are now present in POK, who are now part of the CPEC construction activities, should also be evacuated from there?

Official Spokesperson, Shri Vikas Swarup:You are now going back to past history and UN resolution and things like that. I think we have all moved on from that. As you know those UN resolutions are part of history and you know why they were not implemented and which party is responsible for not implementing that.

As far as we are concerned, in 1972, we entered into a new framework with Pakistan under the Shimla Agreement which was reiterated in the Lahore declaration of 1999 and that is the framework under which we want to move ahead with Pakistan. There is no point in digging up old history, we have to move on with the new realities and new perspectives.

Question:Hum ye maante rahe hain ki Pakistan se jo aatankwaad niryaat hota hai to Jahir taur par Pakistani hukumat ki kahin na khain ek sanliptata hai, who jaante hain ye ho raha hai fir bhi woh dhyan nahin dete. Aise mei sawal ye hain ki John Kerry saab jab yahan the toh unhone ek aanklan kiya aur unhone kaha ki Pakistan ek victim hai terrorism ka aur saath hi saath unhone ye bhi kaha ki non-state actors hain wahan aur Pakistan ko madad chahiye aur humein patient hona padega. Is aanklan se aap kitna sahmat hain?

Official Spokesperson, Shri Vikas Swarup:John Kerry saab ke doosare bayaan ko kyon aap nazarandaaj kar rahe hain jahan par unhone kaha hai ki Pakistan Sarkar ko aur adhik karna hai un terror groups ko rokane ke liye jo anya deshon mein aatank faila rahe hain.

Ye kahna ki Pakstan terror ka victim hai, ye baat to hum maan rahe hain lekin agar woh victim hai terror ka to woh terror create kisne kiya, asli baat to ye hai na jis par introspect karna chahiye ki is victimization ki shuruaat kaise hui.

Question:….. Inaudible…..

Official Spokesperson, Shri Vikas Swarup:Dekhiye asli mudda ye hai ki good terrorist aur bad terrorist ke beech mein differentiation nahi hona chahiye aur is par John Kerry saab ne bahut spasht shabdon mein kaha tha kiagar aap samajhate hain kuch good terrorist hain unko aap paal sakte hain aur kuch bad terrorist hain unko aap daba sakte hain to ye antatah aapke upar hi rebound karega. Jab tak ye false distinction banaya jayega achhe aur bure aatankwaadi ke beech mein tab tak is chunauti se hum muqable nahin kar payenge.

Question:Was it disappointing that John Kerry tried to do a balancing act in the region. On one day when our External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj hit out at Pakistan he agreed and on the other day as pointed out now he differentiated between non-state actors, state actors and also said that Pakistan is a victim. Is it disappointing for India?

Official Spokesperson, Shri Vikas Swarup:We do not look at diplomacy in those terms and as I said we do not draw those kind of conclusions what you have drawn. As far as we are concerned, we go by the joint statement that India and United States agreed that at the end of Second Strategic and Commercial Dialogue.

Please look at the joint statement, the language that it contains, that as far as we are concerned is the authoritative record of US position on the issue of cross-border terrorism.

Question:Regarding the visit of Sushma Swaraj to Rome, is there something on agenda, some bilateral meeting with some representative?

Official Spokesperson, Shri Vikas Swarup:Yes, I can confirm that apart from her audience with His Holiness the Pope we will also have a bilateral meeting between her and her Italian counterpart.

That concludes the press briefing. Thank you all.

(Concludes)