http://www.4-traders.com/news/Ministry-of-Economic-Affairs-of-Republic-of-Ch-Market-opportunities-in-the-Iranian-oil-and-gas-ind--22979833/
30
3
Iran is located in Southwest Asia and is part of the Middle East. It has a population of more than 78 million and a land area of approximately 1.65 million square kilometers. The country is bordered to the north by the Caspian Sea; to the south by the Persian Gulf and the Gulf of Oman; to the east by Afghanistan and Pakistan; to the northeast by Turkmenistan; to the northwest by Armenia and Azerbaijan; and to the west by Turkey and Iraq. Located within Iran's territorial waters is the Strait of Hormuz, which provides the only sea passage from the Persian Gulf to the open ocean and is one of the world's most strategically important choke points, with some 35% of the world's petroleum traded by sea passing through it.Iran has the second biggest economy in the Middle East and 28th largest in the world. Its GDP amounted to US$387.6 billion for 2015. With abundant natural resources, ample labor, and sound industry and technology, Iran has much potential for greater growth. Its most important shipping port is in the city of Bandar Abbas at the Strait of Hormuz. The main industries in Iran are petroleum, natural gas, petrochemicals, steel, automobiles, textiles, cement, fisheries, agriculture and telecommunications.

Petroleum and Natural Gas

All activities related to petroleum and natural gas in Iran are controlled by the Ministry of Petroleum, which manages the state-owned National Iranian Oil Co. (NIOC), National Iranian Gas Co. (NIGC), National Iranian Oil Refining & Distribution Co. (NIORDC), and National Petrochemical Co. (NPC).

At present, there are 62 onshore oil fields, 16 offshore oil fields, 20 onshore natural gas fields and two offshore natural gas fields in operation in the country, with approximately 26% of the petroleum reserves and 50% of the gas reserves being jointly owned with neighboring countries. In the next decade, Iran plans to invest US$150 billion in developing its petroleum, natural gas and petrochemical industries, with US$50 billion to be used in developing upstream industries in the petroleum sector, US$50 billion in developing upstream industries in the natural gas sector as well as liquefied natural gas (LNG) facilities, US$30 billion in the petrochemical sector, and US$20 billion on improving the efficiency of oil refineries. According to the current Iranian exploration plan, a considerable increase in petroleum and natural gas production is expected. Crude oil is the economic lifeline for Iran, with income generated by oil accounting for more than 80% of the nation's total revenues. Therefore, the Iranian government places great importance on developing the petroleum industry, and the nation's citizens hope to share in the benefits.

1.Petroleum

Iran has the fourth largest petroleum reserves in the world, behind only Venezuela, Saudi Arabia and Canada, at 157.3 billion barrels, which is roughly 10.9% of the world's total reserves and 13% of the total reserves of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). Iran's petroleum production ranks 6th globally, while its petroleum exports rank 4th in the world and account for roughly 80% of the country's export revenues. Following the recent lifting of various sanctions, Iran's petroleum industry has quickly rebounded. At present, crude oil production is about 3.2 million barrels per day, and daily exports have topped a record 2 million barrels. Production is forecast to top 4 million barrels per day by March 2017.

Competition between Iran and Saudi Arabia has helped to keep international oil prices low, at around US$40 per barrel. As Iran plans to boost production and capture more market share, it has rejected a deal to lower oil production proposed by OPEC.

Iranian Minister of Petroleum Bijan Namdar Zangneh announced in April 2016 that in order to boost production, the oil field located at South Pars in the Persian Gulf (which is shared with Qatar) and the West Karoun oil field at the border with Iraq (which is shared with Iraq) will be developed. This is expected to boost Iran's oil production from 157.3 billion barrels to more than 160 billion barrels. In addition, Iran has continued to invite international companies to co-fund and participate in developing its oil resources. Therefore several such firms, including French firm Total, Italy's ENI Oil, Germany's Siemens and Salzgitter, Japan's JCCP Center and Mitsui Chemicals, the Dutch Shell Oil, and South Korean LG Group's GS Refinery, have been working closely with Iran. Furthermore, mainland China has actively participated in the development of Iranian oil fields and has signed a long-term procurement contract with Iran. According to news reports, mainland China will spend US$70 billion to US$100 billion on purchasing petroleum and natural gas from Iran, and will help it to develop the Yadavaran oil field located near the border with Iraq.

Iran has built the biggest offshore oil storage platform in the world at the Soroush oil fields in the Persian Gulf, which officially went into operation in February 2015. Its total storage capacity is 2.2 million barrels, which can handle production from the nearby oil fields of 200,000 barrels per day. NIOC plans to collaborate with foreign refinery companies to build oil refineries in Malaysia, Indonesia and Syria. The total amount of investment is around US$8 billion to US$9 billion, with Iran to own a 30% stake in the refineries.

2.Natural Gas

Iran has the 2nd largest reserves of natural gas in the world, behind only Russia. Its reserves amount to roughly 1,000 trillion cubic feet, representing about 18% of the global total. Iran's natural gas production and exports rank 5th and 26th, respectively. A portion of its natural gas fields are co-owned with neighboring countries, including Iraq, Kuwait, Qatar and Oman. Approximately 50% of its main reserves are located at South Pars, which is connected Qatar's North Field in the Persian Gulf, with the other 50% located in the Persian Gulf in several locations, including Golshan, Ferdows, Kish, Lavan and Farour, and so on. Iran is currently collaborating with Pakistan and India on building a natural gas pipeline called TAPI (Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-Pakistan-India) to enable Iran to supply gas to Turkmenistan, Afghanistan, Pakistan and India. The three countries have invested a total of US$10 billion in the pipeline's construction, which is scheduled to be completed by December 2019. The pipeline will have a capacity of about 33 billion cubic meters.

In addition, Iran signed a US$3.3 billion deal with mainland China in March 2009 under which they plan to build an LNG plant at the natural gas field in South Pars.

Iran's natural gas production was roughly 100 million cubic meters per day in 2015 and is estimated to reach 1 billion cubic meters per day this year. Furthermore, Iranian authorities announced completion of the 12th phase of development of the South Pars natural gas field, which is the world's largest. The Iranian government spent more than US$7 billion on this phase of development, which is expected to increase the country's GDP by 2% and generate US$6 billion in revenues every year. There are a total of 29 planned phases of development of the natural gas field, whose reserves amount to roughly 40 trillion cubic meters, representing 40% of Iran's total gas reserves and 8% of the world's reserves. Under a long-term gas field development and procurement deal between Iran and mainland China, it is estimated that Iran will export US$20 billion worth of LNG to mainland China within the next 25 years.

Reference: TAITRA (Taiwan External Trade Development Council), EIA (Energy Information Administration), OIETAI (Organization for Investment Economic and Technical Assistance of Iran),IMF (International Monetary Fund)