http://realty.economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/allied-industries/three-years-on-infra-debt-funds-have-very-few-takers/53940493
36
3
MUMBAI: Infrastructure debt funds (IDFs), seen by the government as an alternative to bank loans for long-term projects, have remained a little-tapped source since starting up in 2013 with to Rs 7,000 crore. Intal refinancing at ` dia has more than Rs 1 lakh crore road projects alone.The three IDFs set up by nonbanking finance companies (NBFCs) -ICICI Bank-backed India Infradebt, L&T-owned L&T IDF and IDFC IDF -were all profitable last year but their portfolios are skimpy ."More than the profit , the volume of debt held by these companies is important," said Manish Agarwal, leader, infrastructure, PricewaterhouseCoope,. "These companies were envisaged to allow banks to refinance their infrastructure books and free them up for lending but that has not really happened."The funds can take over debt provided projects have completed at least one year of satisfactory commercial operation. But banks aren't keen on relinquishing the few sound performe, when credit growth is slow."IDFs were envisaged when banks were hitting their infrastructure exposure limits, GDP was growing at a fast clip and new projects were coming through, " said Suvek Nambiar, CEO of India Infradebt, the fi,t IDF set up by an NBFC. "The situa tion has changed now."India Infradebt has 21 projects; Rs 20 of them roads. It had Rs 2,730 crore of infrastructure debt under management as of March."We have refinanced these projects by reducing interest costs and improving sponsor returns, " Nambiar said.India Infradebt, which posted a 38% increase in profit to Rs 29 crore re in the year ended March is also looking to back renewable energy projects sponsored by develope, and leading private equity funds.L&T IDF, which was also launched in 2013 had Rs 3,000 crore of infrastructure debt under management as of July. Profit rose 30% to Rs 39 crore in FY16."IDFs have started slowly, mainly due to procedural issues " said Shiva Rajaraman CEO, L&T IDF. "For example, when we started, we had to get a guarantee from NHAI (National Highways Authority of India) for every project and because it was a new kind of refinancing, it took some time. But these problems have now been ironed out and we... expect to triple our book by the end of this fiscal to more than Rs 7,000 crore."` Last year, the Reserve Bank of India allowed IDF-NBFCs to invest in public-private partnerhip projects even without a government-backed authority. It also scrapped the requirement for a three-way agreement with a government agency like NHAI as one of the parties.