http://www.ibtimes.co.in/rick-morty-season-3-air-date-spoilers-crossover-gravity-falls-confirmed-694049
36
3
It seems that Adult Swim's popular animated series Rick And Morty Season 3 is all set to crossover with Disney's action-comedy animated series Gravity Falls.

Rick And Morty Season 3, which is all set to premiere next year, tells the story of a crazy old scientist, Rick and his underachiever grandson, Morty, as both of them travel to numerous parallel dimensions and the worlds there.

In one of the episodes of Gravity Falls, a portal opens up and it sucks several objects into it. The same objects were later seen in an episode of Rick And Morty when Rick opened a portal in order to escape the galactic police.

Also Read: 'Rick and Morty' Season 3 spoilers, plot rumours: Next season confirmed to air in December; Evil Morty to play major role?

However, it might just be a mere coincident as both the shows are targeted at different kinds of audiences and have no similarities to each other. Hence, the crossover might not take place at all.

Besides it, the show-runners had teased the fans with a video clip during San Diego Comic-Con 2016 where Rick, who is a cockroach for some reason, decapitates several rats and escapes a prison. The clip might hint at the events in the upcoming season as Rick was sent to prison in Rick And Morty Season 2 finale and he might try to escape in the third season.

Season 3 of Rick And Morty might get intense than the previous seasons as according to several speculations, Mr and Mrs Smith, Morty's parents, will finally be getting a divorce and as a result, the family might move out of the house.

Recent reports have also stated that Vin Diesel, renowned Hollywood star, will be guest starring in one of the upcoming episodes and will be providing voice over for a character in the series. The reports mention that Diesel might voice Mr Meeseeks that was previously voiced by show's creator Justin Roland himself.

Rick And Morty Season 3 is yet to get an official release date. However, the show-runners have confirmed that it will air sometime in 2017.