https://sputniknews.com/politics/20160907/1045038329/russia-federation-council-matvienko-china-visit.html
30
3
MOSCOW (Sputnik) — The delegation of Russia's parliament upper house, headed by its speaker and chairperson Valentina Matvienko will start its visit to china on Wednesday, the press service of the Federation Council said.

"The delegation of the Federation Council, headed by…. Valentina Matvienko is heading to China for a working visit. During this trip, the visits of the cities of Wuhan and Beijing are planned," the press service said in a statement.

The delegation includes Deputy Chairman of the Federation Council Ilyas Umakhanov, chairman of the Federation Council's International Affairs Committee, Konstantin Kosachev, Vice Chairman of the Federation Council Dmitry Mezentsev.

© AP Photo/ Alexei Druzhinin/ Sputnik, Kremlin Pool Russia, China Share High Level of Trust, Cooperation - Putin

The visit agenda includes meetings with the Chinese leadership, negotiations with Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress (NPC) Zhang Dejiang. According to the press-service, one of the main topics under discussion will be the development of interparliamentary relations and regional cooperation between China and Russia.

In Wuhan Matvienko will visit the Optical Valley, the new technology development zone, the center of laser and opto-electronic technologies. The delegation also has plans visit the Center of the Russian-Chinese Cultural Exchange, which was opened in Wuhan last year.

"During the visit, we expect to take decisions that will give a new impetus to cooperation of the Federation Council and the National People's Congress in legislation, in the areas of political, economic, scientific, technical and humanitarian cooperation, as well as cooperation at the international parliamentary organizations," Matvienko said, as quoted by the press-service.

In Beijing's Tsinghua University, Matvienko will perform in front of professors, teachers, graduate students and will soak about the development of strategic partnership between Russia and China.