http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/707300/Hairdresser-faces-jail-throwing-hijab-clad-woman-out-salon
30
3
Businesswoman Merete Hodne is due to appear in court this week after the incident was reported to the police in October last year. However the hairdresser said she was fully within her rights to not colour the hijab-clad woman’s hair – and said it was not religious but political matter. The 47-year-old Norwegian added it would have been discriminatory against her other customers if she had not thrown Malika Bayan out of the establishment.

TV2 Merete Hodne is due to appear in court for throwing hijab-clad woman out of her salon

Hodne, who runs a salon in Bryne, south west in Norway, told Tv2: “I fear the totalitarian symbol of the hijab which says that I should be killed, and for me it is quite unnatural to provide good service in my situation. “As most people know hijab clad woman do not get to show their hair to men. My salon is a man and women’s hair salon. “It would have been deeply discriminatory if I had banished men from the lounge because of a woman who could not show her hair to them.” The hairdresser was initially fined £800 by the police, but as the activist, who has spent years campaigning against the “Mohammedanism of Europe”, refused to pay she now has to appear in court.

NC Hodne said she was fully within her rights to not colour the hijab-clad woman’s hair

I fear the totalitarian symbol of the hijab which says that I should be killed Businesswoman Merete Hodne

Hodne risks six months in jail if she is found to have discriminated against the 24-year-old Muslim woman The business owner said she would appeal all the way to the European Court of Human Rights if Norwegian court ruled against her. Hodne said: “I don’t want this evil inside the doors where I’m in charge.

NC Malika Bayan was thrown out of the salon in Bryne, south west in Norway

YOUTUBE The hairdresser was initially fined £800 by the police but she refused to pay

“Evil is Islam’s ideology, Mohammedanism and the hijab are symbols of this ideology, like the swastika is for nazism. “I’m not afraid to lose but I won’t pay for something that is wrong. I’ll appeal to the court of human rights. “I have dedicated my life to this. I’m not a racist. I am a political activist fighting against Mohammedanism of Europe. It’s not Muslims I’m critical of.”

TV2 Bayan has said she felt victimised by Hodne