http://www.business-standard.com/article/news-ians/ban-appeals-for-global-solidarity-in-tackling-migrant-crisis-116100700055_1.html
10
1
Ban Ki-moon appeals for global solidarity in tackling migrant crisis

He praised Italy for its efforts in hosting and rescuing thousands of refugees and migrants

United Nations Secretary General on Thursday praised for its efforts in hosting and rescuing thousands of refugees and migrants, and appealed for in tackling crisis.

Ban made his remarks after meeting with Italian President here.

The outgoing secretary general held talks also with president of the Upper House Pietro Grasso, and of the Lower House Laura Boldrini.

Such meetings focused on major issues, including the war in Syria, the Libyan situation, and the crisis, according to an official statement.

"I commend the generosity of the Italian people and government in hosting and rescuing so many human beings, who are risking their lives on the high seas in search of a better life," Ban told reporters after talks.

" should not be left alone. We need to face this unprecedented crisis," he added.

The chief also praised the support has been providing to the blue-helmet peace operations around the world, in terms of both troops and logistics.

Ban is expected to be replaced by former head of the refugee agency UNHCR Antonio Guterres by Jan 2017.

The Italian authorities acknowledged Ban's achievements during his visit to the country, which was likely to be the last one as secretary-general.

"In the last 10 years, under his guide, the have achieved historic results in areas key to co-existence," Mattarella told a press conference.

Mattarella mentioned the crucial fields of development and of governance of the climate change.

"In particular, I am thinking about the adoption of the 2030 Agenda (for Sustainable Development), and the Paris agreement on climate change," he said.

The Paris Agreement just entered into force this week, triggered by the ratification of the parliament of the European Union (EU). "Yet, the list of Ban's achievements is longer than that," Mattarella added.

"I want to mention his crucial commitment on the migrants issue, as a responsibility of the community, on the gender equality, and on the fight against discrimination and violence," he said.

IANS