http://www.dailymail.co.uk/debate/article-3805956/David-Cameron-unleash-demons-Brexit-Former-No10-chief-CRAIG-OLIVER-brutal-referendum-inevitable.html
30
3
History tends to be written by the winners. That statement might be a cliche, but it doesn’t make it any less true – or painful – for those who lost the EU referendum.

My book, Unleashing Demons, describes what it was like being at David Cameron’s side throughout the campaign, and why, despite having thrown everything at it, he lost and had to leave Downing Street.

The account, serialised in today’s Mail on Sunday, is based on my notes and a diary of being in key meetings with everyone from Barack Obama and Angela Merkel, to Boris Johnson and Theresa May. I didn’t expect to tell the story so soon – because I hoped we’d win.

Exit: Craig Oliver with David Cameron the day after he resigned, on June 25

None of the details have been changed, however hard it was for me to read them back. Some who have already read the book believe it will make for even harder reading for senior politicians, a few of whom remain in high office, and many who don’t. My intention isn’t to expose or embarrass them. I simply want to put on record what actually happened during one of biggest political storms this country has ever faced.

The title of the book, Unleashing Demons, comes from a conversation I had with Cameron in his armour-plated car on the way to a speech.

Both of us believed a decision over Britain’s membership of the European Union had been a slow train coming for a generation, and now it was arriving in the station on his watch.

The reasons were obvious: Nigel Farage’s Ukip was on the rise, not just doing well in the 2014 European elections, but actually winning them. And scores of Conservative MPs were rebelling on anything and everything to do with Europe.

When asked, more than half the country believed that there needed to be a vote, partly because you had to be close to 60 to have taken part in the 1975 referendum on the then Common Market.

The referendum was not just the biggest political decision for this country since the Second World War – it became a career opportunity for people hoping to become Prime Minister

To put it another way, the issue had become a giant boulder blocking the road for the Government. Cameron could have tried to ignore it, or work around it, but had he not promised a referendum, the Conservative Party would almost certainly have demanded a leadership election and replaced him with someone who would.

It seemed inevitable on that car journey – but I still asked him for one reason why he shouldn’t hold a referendum.

His answer was instant: ‘You could unleash demons of which ye know not.’ I thought it was a quote from Shakespeare or the Bible, but couldn’t find it anywhere when I looked it up.

Those words were prophetic. But even Cameron did not foresee the extent of the civil war we encountered, with blood-letting on an epic scale.

The referendum was not just the biggest political decision for this country since the Second World War – it became a career opportunity for people hoping to become Prime Minister.

Some were overt, others more subtle. It felt painfully obvious as people who were close colleagues, even supposedly friends, were prepared to question Cameron’s integrity, mislead the public, or do the bare minimum to help.

As the campaign continued, one journalist put his finger on it by writing: ‘It sometimes feels as if we are trapped inside the tortured mind of a party that has… succumbed to madness.’

I’m frank about the mistakes we made and take my full share of responsibility for my part in them. It’s important we have an honest discussion about what actually happened.

So what were those mistakes? The Remain campaign set too much store by what had become the closest thing to an iron law in politics – it’s the economy, stupid!

Those words were coined by Bill Clinton’s campaign manager James Carville during their first presidential campaign. They became a mantra for political parties around the world.

I also want to make clear that having made the Conservative Party electable again, David Cameron was a Prime Minister who was prepared to take on the big political issues of the age

We were sincere in our belief, shared with countless experts, that the risk to the economy of leaving the EU should and would trump any other argument. We were wrong, and when the Leave campaign began to get real traction by focusing on immigration, we didn’t have enough of an answer.

More to the point, what we believed was our great strength was also a weakness. We assembled a vast coalition, ranging from most of the Conservative Government, through the Labour, Lib Dem and Green parties, all believing we should stay in. But the reasons for remaining were different, resulting in confused messages.

Worse, the current leaders of the Left – Jeremy Corbyn and Nicola Sturgeon – seemed at best equivocal and sometimes actively hostile to our campaign. We also listened to the legion of analysts who said millions of people who had not voted for years would stay at home again.

Nearly three million of these ‘non-voters’ turned out, almost all of them for Leave. It was more than enough to ensure we lost. We should have done more to understand their concerns and persuade them why leaving the EU would be bad for them.

I respect the result of the referendum and I do not believe there should be another. The people of this country voted to leave the EU by a clear margin on a high turnout.

As things stand, both sides are claiming they were right in their predictions about the impact of Brexit. Leavers say the economic disaster has been avoided, proven by some good economic news last week. Remainers point to the fact that our currency has lost ten per cent of its value, making things more expensive, and that business has pressed the pause button on investment.

We’ll have a better idea after the Chancellor’s autumn statement. But the true picture will only be clear after the two-year divorce process that begins when Theresa May applies to leave the EU next year.

I hope we were wrong – I want Britain to prosper – but remain seriously concerned. In the meantime, I’d like to provide a proper answer to the question: ‘What were they thinking?’

I also want to make clear that having made the Conservative Party electable again, David Cameron was a Prime Minister who was prepared to take on the big political issues of the age.

He formed a coalition government to provide economic security when the country desperately needed it and he presided over a ‘jobs miracle’, resulting in millions more people being in work.

He reformed our schools and changed welfare to help make work pay. Gay couples being allowed to marry and the National Citizen Service are other parts of his legacy.

And yes, he confronted the EU question, showing leadership in taking on something that divided not just the Conservative Party, but whole communities.

He also showed dignity in being prepared to resign in the way he did when things went wrong.