http://www.dawn.com/news/1285946/britain-for-easing-pakistan-india-tension-says-envoy
36
3
LAHORE: Britain wants easing of tension between Pakistan and India as she is concerned over the present situation in the region, says the British High Commissioner in Pakistan, Thomas Drew.

Mr Drew called on Chief Minister Shahbaz Sharif here on Saturday and discussed matters of mutual interest, promotion of bilateral relations and the situation in the Indian occupied Kashmir.

The high commissioner said like other countries, Britain also wanted easing of tension between Pakistan and India. “Britain is concerned over the present situation and it is against violation of human rights anywhere in the world and Pakistan’s political leadership is showing a responsible attitude in the current situation,” he said.

He said Shahbaz Sharif was the first foreign leader who telephoned Theresa May on her nomination as British prime minister and expressed good wishes for her. “British Prime Minister Theresa May is expected to visit Pakistan next year,” he said.

Shahbaz Sharif said Britain should play its role in the resolution of Kashmir issue in the light of UN resolutions and aspirations of Kashmiri people. He said that Pakistan was a peaceful country and wanted durable peace in the region.

Punjab chief minister further said Pakistan and Brittan were partners in progress and development. He said cooperation of Britain in development of education, health and other sectors in Punjab was commendable and the relations between the two countries were strengthening with the passage of time.

He said the Skills Development Programme was successfully running in Punjab with the cooperation of British Department for International Development (DFID). He said the school reforms road map being implemented with the cooperation of DFID was also yielding encouraging results, while another programme for provision of quality public health facilities to the people was also being implemented.

The chief minister said the government was introducing far-reaching reforms in economic sector and the confidence of foreign investors had been restored.

He stressed the need for promotion of trade and economic relations between Pakistan and Britain and said that exchange of trade delegations was of vital importance for the purpose.

Provincial representative of DFID, Ben French and new representative of the department, Ms Ruth Graham, were also present.

Meanwhile, Deputy Chief of Mission of US Embassy Jonathan Pratt met Shahbaz Sharif and discussed bilateral ties and promotion of cooperation in different sectors.

Speaking on the occasion, the chief minister said there were multi-dimensional relations between the US and Pakistan that would further strengthen in the future. He said terrorism was an international issue and no country or nation could resolve it singlehandedly. Collective efforts of the international community were needed to eliminate the scourge of terrorism.

The CM also presided over a meeting to review the performance of minerals department besides measures for exploration of natural resources, promotion of industrial activities and reorganisation of Punjab Minerals Development Corporation.

Published in Dawn, September 25th, 2016