http://www.independent.ie/life/travel/travel-news/ryanair-to-cut-1600-flights-from-dublin-airport-next-year-35013119.html
30
3

Ryanair is to reduce seats from Dublin due to a fall-off in UK visitors and the airport becoming "uncompetitive", it says.
The airline, which launched its Irish summer 2017 schedule today, is switching 3pc of its seats away from Dublin as "daa withdraws growth incentives," it claims.It also cited a post-Brexit drop in UK visitor numbers in its decision.12 million seats will be offered from Dublin in 2017, a reduction of approximately 300,000 passengers, or 1,600 flights, on this year.Dublin Airport, however, says its Growth Incentive Scheme remains in place."Ryanair's growth at Dublin Airport over the past three years has been supported by a range of incentive schemes," the daa said in a statement expressing its disappointment - "most notably the Growth Incentive Scheme, which remains in place".The Growth Incentive Scheme pays a rebate in airport charges to airlines that grow their overall business at Dublin, and is open to all scheduled airlines at Dublin Airport. Since 2011, Dublin Airport has paid €34.2 million in airport charges rebates to airlines under the scheme, according to daa.Separate incentive schemes are also available to promote new routes. Despite daa confirming that the scheme remains in place, however, Ryanair says it has not been able to get a guarantee that it will continue into 2017."This means that Dublin Airport is becoming uncompetitive," commented Kenny Jacobs, the airline's Chief Marketing Officer. "It incentivises Ryanair to switch growth to other lower cost airports in Europe.""There’s an incentive each year," Ryanair's CEO Michael O'Leary added at a press conference in Dublin today. "But because we can’t get a decision on it at the moment, we have to [go ahead and] announce next summer’s schedule.""We've just announced a 3pc cut in our capacity at Dublin next year."Contacted by Independent.ie Travel today, Dublin Airport reiterated that its Growth Incentive Scheme remains in place.Ryanair will offer 14 million seats from Irish airports in 2017, with 12 million of those from Dublin - where, despite the overall reduction in capacity, it will introduce additional flights to Palma, Reus and Tenerife for the summer season.Increased flights and frequencies from Shannon (Lanzarote) and Cork (Lanzarote, Malaga) have also been announced today. “We’d like to thank Ryanair for growing its business significantly at Dublin over the past three years and we look forward to continuing to work closely with them to support their route network from Dublin in the future,” said Dublin Airport's Managing Director, Vincent Harrison.Year-on-year passenger numbers at Dublin were up 13pc to the end of July. 
Ryanair is releasing 100,000 seats for travel in... 
There was a sense of mounting anxiety as firefighters... 
Ryanair will require all customers booking on its... 
Heathrow is ready to deliver a third runway that is... 
Kerry's Skellig Ring has been named one of the world's top... 
Aer Lingus cabin crew removed a man from a flight... 
Norway's natural wonders are being put at risk... 
Readers of Condé Nast Traveler magazine have voted four Irish hotels into their... 
Travel booking website Expedia has come under... 
A clampdown on Airbnb is imminent with specific guidelines for when a house or... 
Aer Lingus celebrates its 80th anniversary in 2016. 
PrivateFly has released its annual list of the world's most beautiful landings... with a... 
Toy retailer Smyths reveals its most wanted toys this Christmas 
To make Sausage Week, we ask the important question - have sausages lost their... 
Dublin Fire Brigade help little Sligo tot Rory's wish to... 
A team of paranormal investigators spent a night in a... 
Incredible footage of a huge Celtic Cross made from... 
Three-year-old Dylan Askin has a rare form of lung... 
Kerry's Skellig Ring has been named one of the world's... 
Take a look at this lovely video of Casper the cat wanting to join in on Jennifer Malone's... 
Not every family would agree to buy a castle with a... 
Comedian Barry Murphy makes a very good case on... 