http://www.india.com/news/world/geopolitics-terrorism-weigh-on-g-20-summit-in-china-1451667/
36
3
“The South China Sea issue has nothing to do with this summit,” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying had said in a media briefing recently when asked whether the issue would figure at the meeting. “I am not sure why you asked this question. It is known to all that the G20 Summit is supposed to focus on how to inject vitality and impetus to world economic development serving as a platform prioritising and improving global economic governance,” she said. While the summit is a challenge to China’s diplomacy with its top diplomats tiptoeing around the ‘S’ issue, to ensure that it does not figure in the joint statement, officials say the big focus will remain on Chinese President Xi Jinping’s bilateral meetings with the leaders of the cream of the G20 group including with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the sidelines of the summit.Modi who is scheduled to arrive on September 3 will stay in the city for about 48 hours, an Indian diplomat said. Details of his meeting with Xi on the sidelines is still being worked out. Chinese officials say besides Modi, it will be a big line up of bilateral meets for Xi including with US President Barack Obama, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and his British counterpart Theresa May, each riddled with tense issues. Officials say most of the meetings are still being worked out. Modi and Xi have met several times and they enjoy a friendly rapport but this time the meeting is taking place at a time when the “Pakistan factor” is felt on Sino-Indian ties.From terrorism, the Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG) to USD 46 billion China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) and Balochistan, the bilateral ties took considerable beating. Officials on both sides admit that a more free and frank exchanges between the two leaders could smoothen the rough edges. Xi and Modi will also have an opportunity to meet again in Goa next year during the BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China, South Africa) summit. “So they may carry forward their talks to the next meeting,” an official said.Published Date: September 1, 2016 4:16 PM ISTUnion Bank of India PO Exam 2016 Result declared: Check…Minister of External Affairs Sushma Swaraj admits she had no…Copyright © 2016. India WebPortal Private Limited. All Rights Reserve