http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Moscow,-Tehran-and-Beijing-launch-anti-US-front-over-Syrian-ruins-38320.html
30
3
Russia uses air bases in Iran to bomb jihadist targets in Syria targeting Islamic State and the National Nusra Front positions. Possibility for a joint effort between Russia and the United States in Aleppo, but Washington fails to confirm it. Agreement between Beijing and Damascus to train military personnel and send Chinese humanitarian aid to Syria.Damascus (AsiaNews / Agencies) - Moscow and Tehran are strengthening bilateral ties and Russia is stepping up its ambitions for influence in the Middle East. Meanwhile, Chinese military experts are preparing to provide "aid and military" assistance to the Syrian government, in the context of an agreement reached last weekend, confirming Beijing's growing involvement in the region.The Syrian conflict, five years after it first began, would appear to have become the background for an increasingly significant alliance to counter US hegemony (and its Sunni Arab allies).The Russian Defense Ministry has confirmed the use of an Iranian air base in the west of the country, for air raids on jihadist targets in Syria. For experts this is a strong signal confirming the military and strategic cooperation between Moscow Tehran.Yesterday some long-range Tupolev-22M3 bombers and Sukhoi-34 fighters took off from Iranian air base Hamedan. The aircraft struck positions of the Islamic State and Jabhat Fateh al-Sham (the former Nusra Front) in the provinces of Aleppo, Idlib and Deir al-Zour, killing - according to Russian sources - a "large number" of militia. 27 civilians also died in the attacks.For the first time since the beginning of the military campaign in the Middle Eastern country last year Russia has hit strategic targets in Syria from a third country. Tehran is the main ally of Bashar al-Assad in the area and has provided military and financial aid since the war began in 2011.Moscow's Ministry of Defense - which in recent days has re-established relations with Turkey – has confirmed sending an unspecified number of bombers and Sukhoi-34 to Iran. Ali Shamkhani, head of Iran's security, added that the two countries "have a strategic cooperation in the fight against terrorism in Syria" and "share" facilities and expertise.Last year, Tehran and Moscow signed an agreement on military cooperation centered on the training of troops and the fight against terrorism. And in recent days Russian President Vladimir Putin sent his maximum government expert on Middle East issues to Tehran .The Department of State has not ruled out possible co-operation between Washington and Moscow in Aleppo, although at present there are no official agreements. And on the use of Iranian bases by Russian fighters, the heads of US Defense describe the step as "unfortunate, but not surprising". Meanwhile, the presence of China among the players on the Middle East chessboard is becoming increasingly evident. This has been confirmed in recent months by the appointment of Xie Xiaoyan, a former Beijing Ambassador to Iran, as special envoy to Syria. In recent days, a Chinese delegation - led by Guan Youfei, director of the Center for International Cooperation at the Central Military Commission - met with the Syrian Ministry of Defence.The two sides reached an agreement on the training of military personnel and the deployment of Chinese humanitarian aid in Syria. It should be mentioned here that China has supported the positions of Russia on the resolutions of the UN Security Council on Syria, although Beijing has so far refrained from direct involvement in the war. Moreover China's goal is a political agreement that guarantees stability and a foothold in trade and business in the region.Russia uses air bases in Iran to bomb jihadist targets in Syria targeting Islamic State and the National Nusra Front positions. Possibility for a joint effort between Russia and the United States in Aleppo, but Washington fails to confirm it. Agreement between Beijing and Damascus to train military personnel and send Chinese humanitarian aid to Syria.2 thousand Daesh militants flee using civilians as human shields, later liberated. Kurdish leader: the militia "will no longer be able to travel to and from Europe." For the Pentagon IS "is on the ropes." Hundreds of mines and booby traps placed by jihadists in the ground before fleeing.Staffan Mistura says if confirmed the attack constitutes a "war crime". Four people die, several patients - including children - with breathing problems. There is no certain information about the perpetrators. The Russian air raids leave Raqqa, the capital of the Islamic Caliphate in Syria, without water.Fighting intensifies in the country's second city. Both fronts close ranks for the decisive battle. Russian fighter jets support Damascus army. For analysts and experts a victory in Aleppo (perhaps) decisive in conflict. UN diplomacy scrambles to organize new peace negotiations in late August.Government forces, aided by Moscow, have launched a massive bombing campaign. The rebels have reportedly broken the army siege of Damascus and launched a counteroffensive. Families in western districts of city race to purchase of water and food.Mgr Georges Abou Khazen is stuck in Beirut because the access roads to Aleppo are closed. Speaking to AsiaNews he talked about the faithful’s fears. The situation has been "critical" for days, but in the last few hours, bread, vegetables, and water have been available. Moscow announces a three-hour suspension in its bombing. For the UN, it “is not enough.”"Our hearts are shocked by the heinous acts of violence that have been committed for far too long against innocent citizens, be they Muslim, Christian or members of other ethnic groups and religions."  World Mission Day “is time of courage”.Copyright © 2003 AsiaNews C.F. 00889190153 All rights reserved. Content on this site is made available for personal, non-commercial use only. You may not reproduce, republish, sell or otherwise distribute the content or any modified or altered versions of it without the express written permission of the editor. Photos on AsiaNews.it are largely taken from the internet and thus considered to be in the public domain. Anyone contrary to their publication need only contact the editorial office which will immediately proceed to remove the photos.