http://www.nytimes.com/2016/08/28/theater/lisa-loomer-abortion-play-roe.html
33
3
ASHLAND, Ore. — Lisa Loomer has written plays about how women’s bodies are tortured in the name of beauty and about the relationship between white mothers and their Latina nannies in Los Angeles. Taking on the politics of abortion would seem right up her alley.“My first reaction was: ‘A court case? I don’t know, that sounds kind of dry,’” Ms. Loomer said in an interview here. But the more she read, the more she realized how wrong she was. The story behind the case was bursting with dramatic potential.At its center were two women who could hardly have been more different: Sarah Weddington, the strait-laced, ambitious 26-year-old lawyer who argued the case, which challenged Texas’s abortion ban, and Norma McCorvey, a poor, hard-living lesbian in her early 20s who was seeking to end her third pregnancy when Ms. Weddington and a colleague recruited her to be the plaintiff, giving her the pseudonym “Jane Roe.”Ms. Loomer was fascinated by the idea of using the women’s relationship as a lens to examine the cultural divide over abortion.“Sarah Weddington, when she approaches the subject of Roe v. Wade, it’s about the law,” she said. “It’s about choice, it’s about doing something to impact the lives of all women. For Norma McCorvey, Roe is about her. It’s utterly personal.”The play she ultimately wrote, “Roe,” which is running here through October and will have two other prominent productions this season, has arrived as the country’s divisions are on lurid display. In telling the messy back story behind one of the most controversial Supreme Court decisions, it offers a new window on the still-roiling debate over abortion.Perhaps surprisingly, given the subject matter, it is also quite funny.Characters often address the audience directly to discuss how different factual sources contradict each other. They will sometimes pause midscene to say how and when they died or to note, often sardonically, how history has summed them up. After the Supreme Court issues its decision, the actress playing Linda Coffee, a young lawyer who worked on the case with Ms. Weddington, says, “Well, I’ll leave now, as this will be the high point of my life.” After a pause, she adds, with an edge in her voice: “According to Wikipedia.”The play draws on the historical material in another unusual way: The Supreme Court justices are represented in courtroom scenes mostly through their voices, in actual recordings of the arguments. Supertitles help make the questions intelligible.Ms. Loomer, who has dark hair, pale skin and a warm, if occasionally anxious, demeanor, grew up in New York and Mexico, where her family moved when she was a teenager. She started her career as an actress in New York, primarily doing comedy, then began writing material for herself and developing plays at the Intar Theater, under the mentorship of María Irene Fornés.Several years ago, to give Marcello more space and access to nature, she and her husband, Joe Romano, a composer and painter, moved here, to Ashland. Now that Marcello, an avid photographer, is headed to college in New York, the couple will start spending time there, too.While writing “Roe,” Ms. Loomer sat in on classes on feminism at the University of Texas at Austin and spoke with young women about abortion. But she did not meet or interview any of the individuals who were part of the Roe v. Wade story and are still living, including her two protagonists.“I really tried to find Norma McCorvey,” she said. “We would come close, and then she would have moved on.”Ms. Weddington read the script shortly before the play opened and offered some thoughts, which Ms. Loomer declined to share. The festival has invited her to attend a performance, but she has not yet.Although Ashland has a hippie-ish reputation, the festival provided training to actors and others working on the production about how to respond if confronted by an angry audience member, either at the theater or in town. So far, however, the response has been positive.Next year, the production will head to the Berkeley Repertory Theater in California and the Arena Stage in Washington. Ms. Loomer giddily wondered if Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg of the Supreme Court, who has attended other shows at Arena, might see it there.“It thrills me,” she said of the possibility. “I’m hoping the Obamas will see it. I’m hoping Hillary will see it.”A picture caption last Sunday with an article about the playwright Lisa Loomer misspelled the given name of an actress in Ms. Loomer’s play “Roe.” She is Sara Bruner, not Sarah.