http://www.politico.com/tipsheets/morning-ehealth/2016/08/allscripts-ceo-talks-interoperability-216049
30
3
Republicans insist the agency gave too much deference to the former secretary and her team. “Her efforts are not always flashy and they’re not always appreciated here at home," President Barack Obama said.“A week ago they loved him, now he's the worst,” says the former prosecutor.The bureau published heavily redacted records of former President Clinton's pardon of a fugitive financier.With the race tightening after Comey-gate, it’s time to consider the nightmare scenario: The contest doesn’t end on election day.For Republicans, the big concern isn’t the split Trump has caused—it’s how far it still has to go.Clinton landed in hot water when he delivered some off-the-cuff remarks last month slamming Obamacare.The Texas Agriculture Commissioner has since deleted the tweet, claimed he was hacked, deleted the claim of being hacked, issued an apology for the original..."What Comey has done is politicize the whole operation,” said a top Democrat. Ned Ryun is soliciting support for an anti-establishment campaign for RNC chair if Trump loses and Priebus seeks reelection.The group has sent mixed signals about whether it will oppose Paul Ryan for another term as speaker, among other post-election issues.Clinton and Trump are alike in one way – they will spend thousands to fly home and sleep in their own beds.With less than a week left, both candidates pump cash onto the airwaves.Tax experts say Trump’s move was legal, though uncommonly bold.White House press secretary Josh Earnest says they were not briefed on potential ties between Trump and Russia.Trump’s back in love with polls — Paul Ryan makes good on his word — The repealiest, replaciest plan for ObamacareJames Comey passed by the reporters after speaking at a memorial service.The Texas Republican funnels money to embattled incumbents.And she scoffed at Trump’s notion that she hasn’t accomplished anything.It is the same poll that showed Trump trailing Clinton by 12 points a week ago.Akin Gump poaches two Rs — Google hires two more from Obama administration — Northwestern Mutual's Watson to FaegreBD — CompTIA hires ADA's LaneThe revival of the bBroadway show 'Hello, Dolly!' is also reviving the show's political past, and trying to insert itself into the 2016 election ahead...The poll reflects an increasingly close race between Blunt and Kander.ProPublica and The Marshall Project have stepped forward to assume control over several data tools from The Sunlight Foundation's data tools division in...“I will ask Congress to convene a special session so we can repeal and replace,” he continued.Florida's John Mica is battling a young Democratic challenger and a new district — and top Republicans worry he's underestimated the threat. Two of the top ground specialists in the business share their insights on early voting, the secret sauce of winning campaigns.After calling the polls 'rigged' against him, the Republican nominee revels in a late boost. For Trump supporters, respecting those who back the Democratic nominee seems less of a hurdle.“I think the equivalent will be: She’s tired, she’s moody, she’s being emotional, there’s something about her,” Obama said. The Elon poll also shows close races downballot.Hillary Clinton's renewed email troubles inject a huge dose of uncertainty into the final days of the volatile fight for the chamber.House Majority PAC debuts new Trump ads — More ads flow into WisconsinShadow Brokers are back — Beijing moves ahead with a cybersecurity lawValeant's ex-CEO, ex-CFO subject of criminal probe — AMA ups pressure on drug pricingObamacare enrollment starts — Apple makes another health hireCFPB fights for authority over for-profit college accreditors — The positive effects of school climateWe're working on more stories right now
                                                    PoliticoA daily report on the intersection of health care and technology Quality-measures reporting, a frequent bane of physicians, is under particular scrutiny with the coming MACRA requirements. “Some of our clients are squiggling a bit under the pressure for the reporting components,” Black said. Not so, says Jeff Smith of the American Medical Informatics Association. The agency, he argues, believes that non-certified portions of software can cause certified functions to perform incorrectly — thereby bringing the non-certified portions within the scope of its authority. And the statute includes broad language concerning ONC’s authority to make EHR data exchange and functioning work, Smith points out. Oscar will continue to compete in the individual market in New York, San Antonio, Los Angeles and Orange County, and will expand to San Francisco in 2017. It also plans to start selling small group coverage to employers in most markets next year. Oscar lost $52.2 million during the first six months of this year on its 60,000-plus customers in New York, according to its most recent financial filing. Last year, it lost $15.5 million on that business during the same time period. In Texas, it lost $17.9 million on about 35,000 customers during the first six months of this year. CommonWell’s executive director, Jitin Asnaani, described it as “another logical step” for the group, which aims to assure data follows the patient. Logical though it may be, the step involves some interesting infrastructural additions. Patients will be able to request data through patient portals, or perhaps through apps or other software through CommonWell’s API. But, technically, how does the network ensure that a patient’s data — which may be scattered across the country — can be pulled to whatever app she’s using to request it? The network already has some services to identify and match patient data — a “record locator service” and “patient identity management” — which allow users to be sure they’ve gathered all the data on a given Jane or John Doe. (And not any of the Janes or Johns who share a name.) All well and good. But what about security? How can we be sure that the data is being requested by the right person? The identity of doctors and other providers can be easily verified through their national provider identifier; it’s a little trickier for patients, who don’t necessarily have identification. Asnaani said that CommonWell’s theory of identification is similar to, say, a bank’s or credit bureau’s — you may notice that, sometimes, a bank will ask you whether you lived at “123 such-and-such Lane”. CommonWell, similarly, asks you about doctors you’ve seen. It’s an interesting suggestion — we’re hoping it bears out!