http://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/saskatchewan/regina-makeup-artist-in-global-competition-1.3779647
36
3
Instead of working backstage, Regina makeup artist Sara Lindsay will be taking the world stage to represent Canada at the Aveda Global Fashionista Master Jam competition in Italy.

Lindsay, who owns The Makeup Store, says she was shocked when she found out she made it into the international beauty tournament and would be boarding a plane for Milan, Italy, in October.

"I wasn't at all expecting it because it's such a big competition but I wanted to try it anyway," Lindsay said.

"I've never been in a global competition before, so it's a pretty big deal."

While Lindsay hasn't entered a worldwide contest, she isn't new to competitions. She was a finalist for the North American Makeup Artist of The Year award for 2015.

"They are fun because I can be as creative as I want and myself and the photographer come up with a concept and that's where I get my creative outlet," Lindsay said.

"It's just part of staying on top of what's going on in the industry and trying to be a part of that as much as possible."

Sara Lindsay and her team came up with a look based on the hair, makeup and fashion trends of the fall and winter 2016 season. (Submitted by Sara Lindsay)

For this challenge, Lindsay had to interpret the hair, makeup and fashion trends for the fall and winter 2016 season and come up with a look while aligning with the Aveda brand.

Lindsay and her team submitted one single image that went up against looks from around the world and waited for the finalists to be announced.

However, the announcement was delayed and Lindsay thought she didn't make the cut.

"We just assumed we didn't win and we weren't that surprised because it's a big pool of people and a big competition," Lindsay said.

Although a little late, Lindsay got the call she was waiting for. Aveda officials told her she would be the finalist for Canada and would be invited to Europe.

"That was a big surprise. It's pretty crazy," Lindsay said. She added she'll be taking her husband and daughter along with her to take in the experience.

Once in Milan, Lindsay will walk on stage to present her image and the regional winners and global winner will be named.

Sara Lindsay first started her craft while working in the United Kingdom before moving back to Regina. (submitted by Sara Lindsay)

Three regional winners will be chosen, representing North America, Europe and Middle East/Asia-Pacific and will receive the opportunity to work at New York Fashion Week next year.

"That's sort of bucket list item. Any of the big fashion weeks are the ultimate goal. I love the rush of doing that," Lindsay said.