http://www.4-traders.com/AMEC-FOSTER-WHEELER-PLC-18703908/news/Amec-Foster-Wheeler-wins-new-Dounreay-design-and-build-contract-23111027/
36
3
Amec Foster Wheeler (www.amecfw.com) designs, delivers and maintains strategic and complex assets for its customers across the global energy and related sectors.

Employing around 36,000 people in more than 55 countries and with 2015 revenues of £5.5 billion, the company operates across the oil and gas industry - from production through to refining, processing and distribution of derivative products - and in the mining, clean energy, power generation, pharma, environment and infrastructure markets.

Amec Foster Wheeler offers full life-cycle services to offshore and onshore oil and gas projects (conventional and unconventional, upstream, midstream and downstream) for greenfield, brownfield and asset support projects, plus leading refining technology.

The company's nuclear business stands out for its ability to bring world-leading expertise, technology and scientific capabilities to customers' challenges throughout the life-cycle from new build and reactor operations to life extension and decommissioning. With 4,000 nuclear specialists around the world, we're able to support our customers with local resources.

For the Dounreay contract, Amec Foster Wheeler will be supported by Black & Veatch on core process design of the system; and by Gows Engineering, based near the Dounreay site, on manufacture, installation and commissioning support.

Last year, DSRL awarded Amec Foster Wheeler a contract for the design, safety case and environmental assessment of a new higher activity waste store at Dounreay.

Amec Foster Wheeler shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange and its American Depositary Shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange. Both trade under the ticker AMFW.

Forward-Looking Statements

This announcement contains statements which constitute 'forward-looking statements'. Forward-looking statements include any statements related to the timing, results and success of contracts, and are generally identified by words such as 'believe,' 'expect,' 'anticipate,' 'intend,' 'estimate,' 'will,' 'may,' 'continue,' 'should' and other similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the control of Amec Foster Wheeler, that could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking statements. Amec Foster Wheeler does not undertake to update any of the forward-looking statements after this date to conform such statements to actual results, to reflect the occurrence of anticipated results or otherwise.