http://www.india.com/news/india/narendra-modi-government-to-offer-political-asylum-to-balochistan-leaders-india-looking-to-pull-a-dalai-lama-from-tribals-1494513/
333
3
New Delhi, September 17: Narendra Modi government is all set to offer political asylum to leaders of tribal belt of Balochistan, who are seeking Independence from Pakistan since last 60-years. According to CNN-News 18 reports the Baloch leaders will be granted political asylum within weeks but the Indian government is looking for formal application from Baloch leaders who are living in exile. If it is true then Narendra Modi government will pull out a Dalai Lama from tribals and most probably it would be Baloch separatist leader Brahumdagh Bugti who welcomed India’s move saying that, “If I ever get a chance to move to India, I will definitely go there for my people”.

Pakistan’s ‘illegal occupation’ at Balochistan gained momentum after Prime Minister Narendra Modi mentioned about the struggle of Balochi people from Red Fort during his Independence Day speech. On Saturday, News 18 quoted a top government official, saying that India is looking formal application for political asylum of Balochi leaders, which would be granted to them within few weeks. The Baloch issue has come on the international domain as earlier this week, activists from tribal belt who were present in the US protested outside the United Nations headquarters in New York City against Pakistan’s illegal occupation.

India on Friday raised Balochistan issue at the United Nations Human Rights Council and said that Pakistan is a nation that practices terrorism on its own people. Indian authorities also submitted the testimonies of the people of Balochistan at the UNHRC. It was the second time in three days when India exercised its rights and raised Balochistan issue in three days at the UNHRC.

There is buzz that Brahumdagh Bugti, a face of Balochistan separatists movement is set to get Indian citizenship. Bugti, grandson of Nawaz Akbar Khan Bugti is currently living in exile. Bugti said that getting an Indian passport will be a huge help to Baloch leaders. Pakistan-based Geo News also reported that Bugti will be given Indian citizenship after a long negotiation with Indian authorities which was later denied by

Baloch Republican Party. (Also Read: Balochistan: Here is why India should be attached to a region that joined hands with Pakistan to fuel unrest in Kashmir)

If it is true then the magnitude of the move be equivalent to giving asylum to Tibetan separatist leader Dalai Lama. The asylum of Dalai Lama has been a thorn in the side of India-China relationship for more than decades. If India permits Balochi nationals to reside in New Delhi then it there is chances that the Indo-Pak relationship would be in more trouble.

Narendra Modi is first Prime Minister who raised human rights violations of Balochistan people from Red Fort on August 15. He also raised an issue of human right violations in Pakistan’s occupied Kashmir. Experts believe that reference of Balochistan by Modi was due to Pakistan raising Kashmir issue persistently and to internationalise it. It is quite noteworthy, days after PM Modi highlighted the Balochistan issue, public broadcaster Prasar Bharati on Friday launched a website and mobile app for All India Radio’s Balochi service to reach out to Balochi people.