http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3825426/University-Vermont-offers-White-Identity-retreat-specifically-white-students.html
10
1
The University of Vermont is holding a free three-day retreat 'specifically for white students' to 'engage in building a stronger and inclusive campus community.'

The program entitled Examining White Identity: A Retreat for Undergraduate Students Who Self-Identify as White, is being sponsored by the university's African, Latino, Asian, Native American and Bi/Multiracial Student Center (ALNA).

ALNA's new retreat will take place over a November weekend, nearly a year after it held a similar three-day retreat discussing the topic of white privilege.

Scroll down for video

The free program entitled, 'Examining White Identity: A Retreat for Undergraduate Students Who Self-Identify as White' is being sponsored by the university's African, Latino, Asian, Native American and Bi/Multiracial Student Center (ALNA) and will take place in November. Pictured here is a photo from the ALNA website believed to be from a previous retreat

ALNA says students will have the chance to understand 'the impact of white privilege on the UVM community and beyond' while 'building a community of support' in combating racism. File photo of the Universitu of Vermont campus above

From November 11-13, students attending the retreat will have the opportunity to 'conceptualize and articulate whiteness from a personal and systematic lens.'

They will also get to 'recognize and understand white privilege from an individual experience,' according to the program description.

ALNA says students will have the chance to understand 'the impact of white privilege on the UVM community and beyond' while 'building a community of support' in combating racism.

The retreat, held at the Common Ground Family Center in Starksboro like last year, aims to answer several questions focused on whiteness, racism and making the university more inclusive.

Testimonials from student's who attended last year's Examining White Privilege retreat said it was a positive experience.

'I enjoyed the Examining White Privilege retreat because it provided a safe space to learn about yourself and others and how we experience and understand privilege and systems of oppression,' student Cora, who graduated last year wrote.

'The activities were engaging and challenged me as a participant to be open-minded and see different perspectives.'

Another student from the class of 2015 said it gave her the opportunity to work to 'explore my own identities more deeply' and to 'connect with other students who are interested in discussing social justice and working to create change' on campus.

This past Spring, over 1,500 students from across the country descended on Philadelphia to attend the so-called 'White Privilege Conference,' which was designed to provide support for those who might be 'burned out from working to dismantle racism and white supremacy'

While students forming groups around race, sexual orientation and religion is not new, educating white students about white privilege are new efforts being made by some universities.

UVM said in a statement to The Daily Beast that its white privilege retreat last year was not mandatory.

It also noted that the program was designed to 'engage white students who wanted to become more effective allies in confronting racism,' adding the concept of 'white privilege is not new nor is it exclusive to UVM.'

UVM's retreat comes as more universities accept the idea that students should be segregated by race in dorms, clubs and diversity initiatives.

Earlier this year, Oregon State University held four 'Social Justice Retreats' that aimed to 'promote a campus dialogue about race and racism.'

The retreats focus on exploring the concept of race and 'how race influences our lived experiences and interactions,' according to the university website.

Oregon State already has plans to host the weekend-long retreats - entitled Racial Aikido, Multiracial Aikido, Examining White Identity in a Multicultural World and Examining White Identity for Faculty and Staff - again in January 2017.

Oregon State University (file picture) held four 'Social Justice Retreats' that aimed to 'promote a campus dialogue about race and racism' and is doing so again next January

In the Spring, more than 1,500 students from across the country gathered in Philadelphia for a 'White Privilege Conference,' which was aimed at 'dismantling white supremacy.'

In July, the University of Wisconsin held racially segregated meetings for students, faculty, and staff to discuss the fatal shootings of Philando Castile and Alton Sterling as well as the killing of five police officers in Dallas.

And across the country, several universities made headlines as they started offering segregated housing for minority students to provide them with a 'safe space.'

Last month, California State University, Los Angeles became the latest college to set up this type of separate living arrangement.

The move came after the university's Black Student Union said African Americans on campus were subjected to 'frequent racist attacks', 'racially insensitive remarks' and 'microaggressions'.

The group gave university officials a set of demands, including new accommodation.

The university then announced they would be opening the Halisi Scholars Black Living-Learning Community, named after the activist and former professor of Pan African Studies at the school, Dr. C.R.D. Halisi.

California State University, Los Angeles, became the latest college to offer segregated housing for black students to provide them with a 'safe space' in August (file picture)

The school set up the separate living arrangements after the university's Black Student Union said African Americans on campus were subjected to 'frequent racist attacks'. The group wrote this message on Instagram with a picture of DR Halisi to celebrate the announcement

Cal State LA joins UConn, UC Davis and Berkeley in offering segregated housing.

While racially segregated programs and diversity initiatives are intended to build stronger and inclusive communities, critics say they can actually bolster bias among students.

A 2004 study examining 'ethnic enclaves' at universities found that membership in ethnically oriented student groups 'actually increased the perception that ethnic groups are locked into a zero-sum competition with one another and the feeling of victimization by virtue of one's ethnicity,' The Daily Beast reported.

Co-author of the study, Jim Sidanius, told The Daily Beast that the longer minority students remained in these types of clubs, the more they felt discriminated against by other students and the administration, noting it led to an increase of tension.