http://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dadri-lynching-accused-s-death-union-minister-mla-drop-into-tense-bisada/story-BjsyjLX7jgxE9yHLqtQbNI.html
30
3
A controversial BJP legislator on Friday assured an additional Rs 15 lakh to the family of a murder accused whose custodial death sparked tension at Bisada in Uttar Pradesh where a Muslim man was lynched last year.

Sangeet Som, an accused in the Muzaffarnagar riots, played the peacemaker in Bisada where villagers had refused to perform the last rites of Ravin Sisodia, 22, alleging that he died due to police torture.

“The (state) government will give a compensation of Rs 10 lakh, Rs 10 lakh will be given by NGOs and we will donate Rs 5 lakh to the family,” Som said after nearly two hours of discussions with a committee formed by the villagers to fight for “justice”. He said Ravin’s wife will be given computer training and then provided a job in a private company.

Som and Union minister Mahesh Sharma – who is also the local MP – visited the village a day after firebrand Hindutva leader Sadhvi Prachi joined the protesters. The BJP has waded into the issue, highlighting Ravin’s death as an example of “misrule” by the Samajwadi Party government in the poll-bound state.

Som, who requested the agitators to end their protest and perform the last rites, said the district magistrate will take care of the education of Ravin’s one-year-old daughter “for her entire life”.

Ravin was one of the 18 people arrested over the alleged lynching of 55-year-old Mohammad Ikhlaq and injuring his son Danish over allegations of slaughtering a cow and storing its meat for consumption. He died on Tuesday at a Delhi hospital due to multiple organ failure under judicial custody.

Read | Bisada: State govt to order CBI probe into death of Dadri lynching accused

The villagers were demanding Rs one crore as compensation and a government job for Ravin’s wife.

Som, however, urged the villagers to continue their fight against “injustice” without taking the law in their hands.

“Most youth lodged in jail (on lynching charges) are innocent. We should continue our fight peacefully,” he said.

“The state government is responsible for this (the death). We are with the villagers. We will ensure that justice is done,” he said.

District magistrate NP Singh, SSP Dharmendra Singh, superintendent of police (rural) Abhishek Yadav and other senior administrative and police officers camped in the village throughout the day. More than 300 policemen were deployed at the village.

In Lucknow, inspector general of the special task force said the state government has decided to recommend a CBI probe into the death.

The body of Ravin was draped in the tricolour and hailed as a “martyr” by villagers on Thursday.

Sadhvi Prachi also accused the state government of favouring the Muslims. “Hindus shall unite against the government. They are testing our patience,” Prachi said.

Read | Bisada witnesses the misuse of Indian flag and communal politics