http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/articleshow/54022846.cms
36
3
NEW DELHI: The promised mandatory marketing code for pharma companies, which is to replace the voluntary code in operation since January last year, will have strong penal provisions to deter them from bribing doctors with freebies to prescribe their drugs.The voluntary code, initially applicable till June 2015, has been given four extensions despite the department repeatedly admitting it wasn't working. A senior official in the chemicals and fertilisers ministry explained that the delay in the mandatory code was because, instead of merely converting the toothless voluntary code to a mandatory one, the ministry was reworking it to ensure it included penal provisions."In the current form, the code is too mild. We want to ensure that when the code is put in place, it will benefit the public and can be implemented effectively," said the official. All meetings with stakeholders have concluded and the ministry has sought legal opinion on the new code, which will be applicable to both pharma and medical devices companies, he said.The number of instances of doctors being bribed by pharma companies have been piling up. While the health ministry is working on regulating doctors better by overhauling the medical council, the companies doing the bribing continue with impunity.One such instance of a pharma company sponsoring freebies for doctors thathas documents to establish was of USV, which took hundreds of doctors from acroos the country to places like Vancouver, Amsterdam, Oslo, Venice, New York, Boston, Brussels and Moscow. The documents show how the company has spent crores in taking doctors and sometimes even their spouses, ostensibly to attend medical conferences.Among the documents which clearly show the elaborate planning that goes into doling out these freebies are email exchanges between USV executives, city-wise lists of doctors with 'legacy codes', names of spouses, passport copies and visa copies.One email from an executive gives feedback from a doctor who praises them for taking care of "every big and small things" saying he had not experienced such hospitality in the past from any company. The executive reports that the doctor has assured him that prescriptions for the company's glimepride and metformin brand will increase. This combination is used to lower blood sugar levels. The executive quotes the doctor as saying, "you need not to worry about Glycomet-GP support. It will increase." Incidentally, this glimepride-metformin combination became the largest selling formulation in the domestic retail market in June 2014 with USV's brand being one of the top two.Physicians, diabetologists and endocrinologists were USV's main targets due to its diabetes and cholesterol lowering drugs. There are cheaper options for almost all the drugs being pushed by the company, but doctors were being persuaded to prescribe the company's expensive drugs. "The money the company earns from these high-priced brands is used to bribe these doctors to prescribe more of these drugs. Ultimately, the cost of the doctors' foreign jaunts is coming from the patients' pockets," pointed out Amitava Guha of Jan Swasthya Abhiyan (JSA), a national network of organisations working on public health issues. Repeated attempts to get a response from USV on these revelations proved futile.Such practices are very common among drug companies. The department had brought in a Uniform Code of Pharmaceutical Marketing Practices (UCPMP) on Jan 1, 2015 in consultation with the industry. The code was to be voluntary for six months, after which it was to be reviewed. Though several instances of corrupt marketing practices surfaced, the ministry repeatedly extended it, the last extension till June 30 being given in March.The industry had promised to self-regulate with the voluntary code that banned gifts, all-expenses-paid junkets for doctors and their families and other unethical practices. However, in September last year, the pharmaceuticals secretary had admitted that it was difficult to enforce as a voluntary code and said the government was planning to make it compulsory. The ministry told Parliament in May and July this year that the voluntary code was not working well and that making it statutory would help control unethical practices.In a stakeholder meeting on February 17, Jan Swasthya Abhiyan (JSA), a national network of organisations working on public health, had presented a comprehensive ethical marketing code. In another meeting on July 29, JSA had submitted evidence of companies spending lakhs on bribing doctors. Rajya Sabha member Tapan Sen wrote to the ministry on the unethical marketing practices and urged the chemicals and fertilisers minister Ananth Kumar to introduce a mandatory code for the industry as he had promised.