https://www.theguardian.com/world/2016/oct/06/royal-canadian-mounted-police-sexual-harassment-apologises
13
1
The Royal Canadian Mounted Police has formally apologised and earmarked C$100m ($76m) for payouts to hundreds of current and former female officers who were subject to sexual harassment and discrimination, in hopes of turning the page on a troubling chapter that has rocked one of Canada’s most iconic institutions.



“For many of our women, this discrimination and harassment has hurt them mentally and physically,” said Bob Paulson, the RCMP commissioner on Thursday. “You came to the RCMP wanting to personally contribute to your community and we failed you. We hurt you. For that, I’m truly sorry.”

Royal Canadian Mounted Police allows Muslim officers to wear hijab Read more

The allegations against Canada’s national police force began pouring in some five years ago after Catherine Galliford – a former spokeswoman for the RCMP – went public with allegations of being subject to constant sexual advances during her 16 years on the force.

The claims, which culminated in a lawsuit that was settled with the RCMP, deeply rattled Canadians and inspired hundreds of others to come forward with their own stories.

Soon after, Janet Merlo, a 19-year veteran of the RCMP, launched a class-action lawsuit against the police force. In her statement of claim, Merlo cited more than a dozen derogatory statements made by male members of her detachment, including a supervising corporal who commented to her now husband that she was perfect “because you can lay a six-pack of beer on her head while she gives you a blowjob” and a supervisor who lectured her on priorities and suggested that “next time she keep her legs closed”, when she informed him she was pregnant. Overtly sexual comments were routinely hurled at her and a black rubber dildo was once left in her files.

Some 500 current and former members of the force soon signed on to the class-action lawsuit, with claims ranging from rape to unwanted sexual touching and threats.

In 2015, the RCMP was hit with a second class-action lawsuit, this one filed by Linda Davidson. During her 27-year career in the RCMP, her court claim said, she was subject to harassment that ranged from unwanted grabbing and kissing to crude jokes and which left her battling anxiety, depression and suicidal thoughts.

Neither of the legal challenges were certified in court; in a British Columbia court last year, the federal government argued that Merlo’s class-action suit was too broad and that claims should be settled on an individual basis.

Thursday’s apology was paired with a promise to create an independent claims process and compensation scheme in what Ralph Goodale, the federal minister responsible for the RCMP, called an important step for the force. “One that I hope will close this deeply troubling and sorry chapter in the history of our national force,” he added.

The compensation process – which must still be approved by a federal court – will be open to any woman who joined the RCMP since 1974, when women were first allowed into the force’s ranks as full-fledged police officers.

The federal government has set aside at least C$100m for the claims process – although there is no cap on the total amount that can be handed out – and expects about 1,000 women to lodge claims.

The process, promised the RCMP’s Paulson, will run alongside a continued effort to overhaul the force’s deeply entrenched culture of harassment. “It’s a very complex, pervasive, culturally ingrained problem that requires the transformation culturally of this police force,” he said.

Toronto police chief to apologize for 1981 gay bathhouse raids Read more

The allegations have overshadowed his tenure as commissioner since he stepped into the role in 2011. Some three years ago, Paulson addressed what he described as the “cultural dysfunction” of the force and vowed zero tolerance towards sexual harassment. The apology had been years in the works, he said, but had been delayed by the desire to heighten it with some sort of compensation.

Thursday’s announcement was welcomed by Merlo, the lead plaintiff in one of the class-action lawsuits. “It’s a turning point,” she said. “I have total faith that this is the beginning of a new era, hopefully a better era.”

She stressed that the hundreds of allegations were directed at a small number of people within the RCMP’s ranks. “Within the RCMP itself, it seems that it was a minority, but a potent minority, that behaves this way,” she said.

Choking back tears, she pointed to the damage they had inflicted on her and the 500 women who had joined her legal challenge. “They all love the RCMP, they loved their jobs. They just wanted it to be a better place to work,” she said. “A place for their daughters to want to work.”