http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/will-attend-heart-of-asia-conference-on-afghan-in-india-pak/1/798167.html
42
4
From Sajjad Hussain

Islamabad, Oct 28 (PTI) Pakistan today said it will attend the Heart of Asia conference on Afghanistan to be held in Amritsar in December but has not decided on the "manner and level" of participation, a day after India welcomed Islamabads decision to take part in the meet.

"The Heart of Asia Conference is aimed at bringing development in Afghanistan with the collaboration of other regional countries, which is in line with Pakistans commitment of supporting all efforts towards peace and stability in Afghanistan. We will be attending the conference," Foreign Office spokesman Nafess Zakaria said during his weekly briefing here.

The spokesman, however, did not specify the manner and level of Pakistans participation in the meet that comes amidst rising tensions and loss of life due to heavy firing across the Line of Control (LoC).

"However, the decision on the level and manner of participation in the Heart of Asia Conference is yet to be taken," he said.

Yesterday in New Delhi, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Vikas Swarup has welcomed Pakistans participation at the meet to be held on December 4.

To another question, he said that the expelled Indian staffer at the Indian High Commission was involved in activities that were directly against the national security interests of Pakistan.

"Unlike India, which has no proof but it keeps levelling baseless accusations against Pakistan, we have irrefutable proof of Indian state involvement in activities against Pakistans territorial integrity and national security," he said.

Commenting on reported comments of BJP leader Subramanian Swamy said that India might be pushed to a war with Pakistan if the latter continues its support to terrorism, Zakaria said that in the past too, Indian politicians have cast aspersions on Pakistan and have used this as a tool in domestic politics.

"We see the current political debate about Pakistan in India, in the same backdrop as also its desperation to deflect the world attention from its atrocities in Kashmir. The timing and pattern of heating up LoC by India are suggestive. Pakistan condemns such crass attempts to malign it," he said.

He also said that the 2008 Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG) waiver has helped India to embark on a nuclear buildup and increase its military nuclear programme and lamented that the waiver was granted without requiring India to make "any worthwhile non-proliferation commitments". MORE PTI SH SUA AKJ SUA