http://www.vanguardngr.com/2016/10/shettima-accuses-ngos-misappropriating-334m-meant-idps/
43
4
By Ndahi Marama, Maiduguri

Governor Kashim Shettima of Borno State yesterday accused some of the Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) of allegedly misappropriating about $334 million (N133.6 billion) donated as “humanitarian interventions and assistance” for Boko Haram victims in the state and North-East sub-region of the country.

Although Shettima did not disclose the names of the NGOs, he said that since the commencement of Boko Haram crisis, there were over 40 NGOs that intervened in humanitarian assistances in Borno State.

“There had been more than 40 NGOs that invaded this North-East sub-region, particularly Borno State.” Shettima made the allegations yesterday; during an official visit of the United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA), Deputy Regional Director for West and East Africa, Mrs. Beatrice Mutali at the Government House, Maiduguri.

Shettima said that the people of Borno State have suffered more in the hands of Boko Haram for six years, noting that they deserved not to be sidelined or cheated by some desperate money seekers who pretend to be working for Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs).

He, however, noted the NGOs had been operating in Borno State without providing any concrete and visible succour or relief to the displaced persons. His words: “As government, we are not quite satisfied with some the NGOs who are employed Borno State to milk our already traumatized IDPs.

“I can confess to you that there are some NGOs who have collected and claimed to have spent about $334 US million (N133.6 billion) on our Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs). But it is unfortunate that there is nothing positive to show for it or any impact on the living conditions of displaced persons in camps.”

“Even me as Governor, I don’t have bullet-proof vehicle, but I understand that some NGOs’ officials in the state are using bullet-proof vehicles in Maiduguri. Mrs. Mutali in her brief response, said that the UNFPA , is to scale up its activities for three years; in Borno on gender-based violence,

psycho-social support, reproductive health and maternal and child healthcare. She said that the state and the country, particularly the affected sub-region needed more skill birth attendants to reduce maternal deaths that stood at 10 per cent.