http://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-3773303/I-ve-got-eye-Gerard-Butler-checks-SEVEN-female-passers-spends-lazy-afternoon-pub-Primrose-Hill.html
43
4
He's often seen packing on the PDA with girlfriend Morgan Brown.

But Gerard Butler could not stop himself from admiring a whole host of other lovely ladies, as he enjoyed a drink without his girl in London last week.

The actor, 46, relaxed at the Queen's Pub in Primrose Hill, where he eyed up not one, but seven women that walked by, according to theSunday People.

Scroll down for video

Ladies man: Gerard Butler, 46, enjoyed an afternoon at the Queen's Pub in Primrose Hill, where he eyed up not one, but seven women that walked by

Yes or no? Gerard could not stop himself from admiring other lovely ladies as he enjoyed a drink without his girlfriend Morgan Brown

Attempting to keep a low-profile in a cap, the actor seemed to be rather enjoying himself as he openly checked out his female passers-by for everyone to see.

According to the publication, he smiled at his first female acquaintance, before sharing pointed looks with the next five.

In one instance he shared a giggle with a pair of dark-haired beauties, flashing a cheeky smug smile after they appeared to recognise him.

Cheeky chappie: The Irish hunk could not help himself from smiling at a host of female onlookers

Corr: He seemed particularly impressed by the behind of one passer-by

How you doin'? Attempting to keep a low-profile in a cap, the actor smiled and giggled at several as he openly checked out his female passers-by

He was then seen in an expression of satisfaction, looking very impressed at the derriere of one woman.

Later he moved across to a standing position on the opposite side of his table - perhaps hoping for a better view of any approaching beauties who may come his way.

Retiring to the pub itself, he then embarked on a conversation with the seventh lady through the pub window.

The pair chatted animatedly for some time before he leaned down to cuddle and kiss the pet dog she had with her.

Working the angles: Gerard then moved from his table to stand outside the pub, perhaps hoping for a better view of any approaching beauties

Unashamed by his open observations, this behaviour is not entirely out of character for the actor, who is often seen enjoying public displays of affection.

He and his girlfriend Morgan were seen in Mayfair just last week, looking the picture of passion as they indulged in some window-shopping on Bond Street.

It was evidently a romantic walk for them both, as they were seen stopping to kiss and touch each other at every opportunity.

At one point the couple could be seen getting very cheeky as they placed their hands on each other's backsides.

New tactic: Retiring to the pub itself to find more potential admirers, he embarked on a conversation with the seventh lady through the pub window

Puppy love: He then leaned down to cuddle and kiss the pet dog she had with her

Despite his open admiration of other talent from afar, Gerard has actually been dating Morgan since May 2014.

The couple are believed to have reunited in April following a brief break earlier this year.

A renowned ladies man, the relationship followed his split from Romanian model Madalina Ghenea, 27, in 2013.

Gerard has been open about his love life in the past, admitted in an interview with InStyle last year that he has searches for a certain type of girl.

Funny man: The brunette appeared to laugh profusely at Gerard's conversation

'I love a woman who has a good sense of her own style--when, no matter how simple it is, you can just tell she wears it well,' he explained.

'Often times when I go to awards shows, sometimes it feels like a hassle, like "gosh, I have to go through all this?" Then you get there, and you see a woman dressed up with her hair and makeup done, wearing a beautiful dress, and they look so elegant and sexy and beautiful. It's nice to play dress-up.'

'The woman I will fall in love with will look great in that, but she is also somebody who can completely kick it in a pair of sandals and jeans and t-shirt. That's my [kind of] girl.'

Tactile: this behaviour is not entirely out of character for the actor, who is often seen enjoying public displays of affection