https://www.yahoo.com/news/coca-cola-says-replenished-water-123829084.html
42
4
Coca-Cola Company says it has fully "replenished" all the water it uses globally to make billions of bottles of soft drinks, juices and purified H20.

The Atlanta-based beverage giant recently estimated it had returned roughly 192 billion liters of water to the communities and watersheds near hundreds of its bottling plants in 2015 — or about 115 percent of all the water used in Coca-Cola's beverages last year.

It did so by treating wastewater from its bottling facilities, building clean drinking water projects in impoverished areas, planting trees and native grasses to catch rainfall, and other initiatives to help offset Coca-Cola's massive water footprint.

SEE ALSO: Coca-Cola's world famous neon billboard is up for charity auction

"Water is the lifeblood of every single community, and for us, it's also our No. 1 most critical ingredient," Bea Perez, Coca-Cola's chief sustainability officer, told Mashable by phone last week from the World Water Week conference in Stockholm, Sweden.

Coca-Cola said it is the first Fortune 500 company to reach such an aggressive target for replenishing its water use.

View photos A man pushes his bike through a Coca-Cola sign in Awasa Lake, Ethiopia, Oct. 22, 2010. More

Image: UIG via Getty Images

Coca-Cola's achievement is part of a slow but growing push by food and beverage companies — steered largely by environmental groups — to make sure that ample water supplies still exist as climate change and population growth threaten the world's freshwater resources.

One of Coke's largest competitors, PepsiCo Inc., said it is making similar investments to protect the watersheds where it produces snacks and beverages and to provide safe drinking water for millions of people.

"PepsiCo believes that the ability to flourish long-term ultimately depends on the health of the communities we operate in and the natural resources we rely on," a spokesperson told Mashable in an email.

The United Nations estimates that withdrawals of freshwater supplies rose by at least 1 percent per year in the past three decades.

If communities and companies don't do more to limit their water usage, withdrawals could surge by a staggering 55 percent by 2050, the U.N.'s water agency said in a 2014 report. More than 40 percent of the global population would live in areas of severe water stress if that happens.

View photos A cattle farmer stands next to a remaining puddle of what used to be his 200,000 cubic meter dam in Ladysmith, South Africa, Nov. 11, 2015. More

Image: Getty Images