http://www.themalaymailonline.com/malaysia/article/hishammuddin-world-recognises-malaysias-efforts-in-maintaining-peace
40
4
Hishammuddin: World recognises Malaysia’s efforts in maintaining peace

Datuk Seri Hishammuddin Hussein said the invitation for Malaysia to join the UN Peacekeeping Defence Ministerial meeting reflects Malaysia’s success in peacekeeping missions in several countries including Lebanon. — Reuters picBENTONG, Sept 4 — The invitation to take part in the United Nations Peacekeeping Defence Ministerial meeting in London, United Kingdom next week proves that the world recognises Malaysia’s efforts in maintaining peace.

Defence Minister Datuk Seri Hishammuddin Hussein, who will represent the country at the meeting, said the invitation also reflected Malaysia’s success in peacekeeping missions in several war strife countries including Lebanon.

“At this year’s meeting, we have been specially invited as many of our personnel have assisted in several peacekeeping efforts around the world, especially in Lebanon.

“This is important for us to prove to the world, although our leaders have been criticised, all the tasks entrusted to us either at the state, national and international level, will be continued,” he said.

He said this at a press conference after the Bentong Umno division delegates meeting here today which was also attended by Pahang Mentri Besar Datuk Seri Adnan Yaakob.

He said the participation would also prove to the people that the government had always placed a priority on the principal issues of the country’s administration despite facing many issues in the country.

According to him, the meeting would be attended by defence ministers from 77 countries which are involved in the UN peacekeeping missions.

The meeting is a continuation of the UN Peacekeeping Summit held in New York on September 15 last year, which was also attended by Prime Minister Datuk Seri Najib Razak.

“We are ready to carry out the initiatives drawn up by the Prime Minister before for inspection of the UN Department for Peacekeeping Operations (UNDPKO) secretariat.

“Malaysia has a very good reputation in UNDPKO following efforts by the Malaysian Armed Forces in establishing the Malaysian Peacekeeping Centre in Port Dickson, Negri Sembilan,” he said.

Hishammuddin said a meeting with defence ministers of Indonesia and the Philippines would also be held to discuss trilateral cooperation in addressing kidnappings and piracy in the Sulu Sea. — Bernama