http://www.4-traders.com/news/European-Commission-Vice-President-Maro-scaron-Scaron-ef-269-ovi-269-visits-Kyiv-discusses-e--23002448/
40
4
Today, European Commission Vice-President for Energy Union Maroš Šefčovič was on a working visit in Kyiv, Ukraine.

He discussed a broad agenda of topics related to energy policy. In meetings with the Chairman of the Verkhovna Rada Andrii Parubii, Prime Minister Volodymyr Groysman, Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development Hennadii Zubko and Energy Minister Ihor Nasalyk, Vice-President Šefčovič reiterated the need for Ukraine to continue on the path of reforms. He also reconfirmed the readiness of the European Commission to pursue with the successful trilateral format of gas talks of the past.

On the need for Ukraine to continue on the path of reforms, Vice-President Šefčovič has said: 'Further reforms are central for modernising Ukraine's economy, to bring advantages to consumers and enterprises alike, and thereby to unlock the potential for higher standards of living. In this sense, I welcome the decision of the government of Ukraine on the unbundling of Naftogaz. It is now important to implement this decision swiftly and consistently in the months ahead. In parallel, Ukraine's potential in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy is huge: Would Ukraine manage to increase its energy efficiency levels to the EU average level, the savings achieved would be greater than the energy consumption of Spain over a whole year. Ukraine could thus even become an exporter of energy'.

In this context, the European Commission is prepared to support the establishment of the corresponding Energy Efficiency Fund before the end of this year.

On the readiness of the European Commission to continue discussing gas supplies for the upcoming winter in the trilateral format involving Ukraine, Russia and the European Commission, Vice-President Šefčovič has said: 'We want to re-launch the successful trilateral format of gas talks involving Ukraine, Russia and the European Commission. In the past, this forum has proven its usefulness: it is better for all to sit down together around one table. Russia as an exporter, Ukraine as a transit country and the EU as the main importer share a common interest of predictability. The trilateral format remains the most suitable for discussing gas supplies for the upcoming winter heating season. In this sense, I am also looking forward to meet with Russian authorities in the next weeks'.