http://www.khmertimeskh.com/news/29539/obama-defends-rebalancing-act-in-asia/
43
4
VIENTIANE (Reuters) – Barack Obama defended his efforts to “rebalance” US foreign policy towards Asia yesterday, even as he wound up the final visit of his presidency to the region with the South China Sea dispute still smoldering.



Mr. Obama’s trip to Asia began and ended on awkward notes.



Arriving for a G20 summit in China last week, his staff argued with airport security officials over media access, and a meeting in Laos with the Philippines’ new president was called off after he alluded to Mr. Obama as “a son of a bitch.”



Mr. Obama, who lived in Indonesia as a boy with his mother, a development worker, told a group of young leaders that the emphasis he had placed on Asia over his two terms was personal.



But addressing leaders of Southeast Asian nations in Laos yesterday, he said it was also “key to a peaceful and prosperous future for the world,” and voiced his hope that whoever succeeds him in the White House next year would take it forward.



Mr. Obama, whose foreign policy focus has been widely seen as a response to China’s economic and military muscle-flexing across the region, said critics at home were wrong to say it had failed when Asian leaders only wanted more.



“The concern that I’ve heard is – will it continue? And, almost uniformly, the questions I get from other leaders is: we hope that America’s interest, and presence, and engagement is sustained,” he told a news conference in Vientiane.



Nevertheless, there was barely concealed tension at the summit of East Asian and Southeast Asian nations in Laos.



Mr. Obama pointedly told the meeting that the arbitration ruling on the South China Sea, which China refuses to recognize, was “binding.”



“We discussed the importance of claimants adhering to steps they’ve already agreed including respecting international law, not militarizing disputed areas and not occupying uninhabited islands, reefs and shoals,” he told reporters later.



For its part, Beijing voiced objections several times to what it referred to as countries outside the region “interfering” in tussles over the South China Sea – wording that is usually understood to mean the United States and Japan.