http://gulfnews.com/business/sectors/tourism/eid-in-uae-staycations-to-boost-local-hospitality-market-1.1886963
42
4
Dubai: While a lot of people are set to travel abroad for the Eid holidays, the UAE’s beach resorts, hotels, restaurants and neighbouring hotspots can still expect to get a boost from residents who are opting for a ‘staycation’ next month.

Travel specialists in Dubai have reported an uptick in demand for bookings at holiday properties in the UAE, as many residents opt for a domestic break during Eid Al Adha.

The government has yet to announce the Eid holidays, but there have been speculations that the first day of Eid Al Adha will fall on September 11, Sunday. If advance astronomical calculations are correct, employees will enjoy at least a five-day break from September 9, Friday.

Families choosing to holiday at home are facing budget constraints, with the new school season just starting. There is, therefore, now a huge demand for value-for-money packages that offer revellers a maximum spend of Dh500 per night per room.

“We have seen a marginal increase in domestic bookings by UAE residents this year for staycations, but the focus is on the best deals and prices as residents want to get the maximum on their spend,” said Premjit Bangara, travel manager at Sharaf Travel.

“This Eid has coincided with the beginning of the new school term and most families are looking for a budget staycation in the UAE, as they have come back from the long summer vacation.”

He said most of their local customers are choosing to holiday in the neighbouring emirates, with Ras Al Khaimah (RAK) topping the most popular list. “[The emirate] is in demand this Eid due to the launching of new resorts and promotions of a host of leisure activities at a competitive price,” Bangara added.

Hospitality markets in the UAE have witnessed an increase in occupancy and revenue levels in July, a usually quiet period for hotels and resorts. Occupancy rates in Dubai went up by 6.2 per cent, while those in Abu Dhabi and Ras Al Khaimah posted significant jumps of 11.5 per cent and 36.3 per cent, respectively.

Yousef Wahbah, head of transaction real estate for Middle East and North Africa at Ernst & Young (EY), said that the sector will continue to experience a boost in performance next month on account of the extended week of the Eid Al Adha.

“A sizeable number of residents have come back since schools have re-opened and already have plans to spend the extended weekend at the various hospitality options available in and around the Emirate,” Wahbah told c.

“Hotels in Abu Dhabi, Dubai and even neighbouring Emirates like Ras Al Khaimah and Fujairah have increased rates and are expecting to achieve high occupancies over the extended weekend.”

Dubai can also benefit from staycations, with hospitality outlets now gearing up for a surge in traffic during Eid. “Lucrative packages and discounts on dining options within Dubai are also expected to be rolled out for those expecting to relax in the city,” said Wahbah.

“All in all, short breaks like these are always advantageous for the hospitality sector in the Middle East as it boosts inbound travel to and within the region.”