http://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-3763551/Tamara-Ecclestone-flaunts-trim-frame-tight-dress-super-cute-Sophia-steals-fun-day-Santa-Monica-pier.html
43
4
She jetted in to Los Angeles earlier this month to enjoy some quality time with her sister, Petra Stunt.

But Tamara Ecclestone enjoyed a fun-filled day out with her adorable daughter Sophia, two, to Santa Monica pier on Sunday.

The Formula One heiress, 32, showed off her trim physique in a skintight green dress, while the adorable youngster enjoyed the many activities the pier had to offer.

Playtime on the pier! Tamara Ecclestone, 32, enjoyed a summery day out at Santa Monica pier with her daughter Sophia, two, on Sunday

Looking every inch the ultimate yummy mummy, the socialite tied a denim shirt around her waist while baring her tanned legs.

Tamara's brunette mane was styled in to glamorous waves and she went for natural make-up, while sporting a large pair of shades.

Little Sophia was sporting an adorable baby blue dress bearing the image of Elsa from popular Disney animation, Frozen, and was carrying a mermaid Barbie doll.

Giggling at her mummy as she enjoyed a ride on a merry-go-round, the toddler - Tamara's daughter with husband of three years, Jay Rutland - looked as though she was having a ball during her day out.

Mummy daughter day: The F1 heiress showed off her trim physique in a skintight green dress, while the adorable youngster enjoyed the many activities the pier had to offer

Stylish: Looking like the ultimate yummy mummy, Tamara tied a denim shirt around her waist while baring her tanned legs

So cute! Giggling at her mummy as she enjoyed a ride on a merry-go-round, the toddler looked as though she was having a ball during her day out

It's been a typically jet-set summer for Tamara, who was taking in the sights of Croatia after soaking up the sun on the Greek island of Mykonos last month.

Tamara recently told HELLO! magazine she was feeling happier than ever and loving every minute of family life.

'I kind of feel like this is who I was always meant to be and any mistakes I've made in the past have brought me to the right place and everything led me to this. It's a really nice feeling,' she explained.

The brunette beauty also revealed why she recently took to Instagram to slam rumours that she and Jay had split up.

Fun in the sun: Little Sophia was sporting an adorable baby blue dress bearing the image of Elsa from popular Disney animation, Frozen, and was carrying a mermaid Barbie doll

Best friend: The cute youngster made sure to never let go of her doll

Say cheese! Tamara also ensured to squeeze in time for a photo-booth session

She said: 'I guess people don't always like to read happy stories and are looking to create drama in other people's lives, but we're fine.'

And being a through and through family woman also prompted Tamara to recently come out in defence of her younger sibling Petra with a snap reading 'confident women don't hate' after she shared a very pouty snap.

In the caption she explained the reason for her sister's seemingly altered appearance, writing:

'So just to be clear not that it's any ones business my sister has not had any cosmetic surgery she has just cut and coloured her hair she is a mum to three young children two of whom she is still breastfeeding so is actually unable to have any cosmetic surgery.'