http://www.msn.com/en-in/news/world/2nd-warp-peace-summit-to-be-held-in-seoul-next-month/ar-AAibkAU
43
4
Seoul: Amid raging conflicts in various parts of the world, global politico-religious leaders and thinkers will gather in the South Korean capital of Seoul next month to debate solutions to such pressing problems.



The discussions will be part of the '2nd Annual Commemoration of the World Alliance of Religions' Peace (WARP) Summit' to be hosted by the Heavenly Culture, World Peace,Restoration of Light, a Seoul-based non-profit organisation working for world peace.



The meetings that will be held from September 17 to 19 will cover important topics such as the role of the legal system to resolve religious conflicts and the current role of the International Court of Justice of the United Nations in resolving armed conflicts.



The meetings will consist of 'Advocacy Forum for the Declaration of Peace and Cessation of War', 'Media Forum for Advocacy of the Declaration of Peace and Cessation of War','The 4th HWPL International Law Peace Committee Meeting','International Religious Leaders Conference' and Conference for the Implementation of the Declaration of Peace and Cessation of War, 2016, IWPG Network Forum.



Organisers say around 1,000 public figures from 120 countries around the world are expected to take part in this event, including the former President of Croatia Ivo Josipovic, Sri Lanka's Justice Minister Wijeyadasa Rajapakshe, President of the Spanish Society for International Human Rights Law Carlos Villan Duran.



"During the event, participants will partake in various meetings for the implementation of the Declaration of Peace and Cessation of War (DPCW). On September 18, there will be an outdoor event at the Seoul Olympic Stadium. This event will mark its beginning with a parade, bringing in participants from all walks of life around the world," a statement from the organisers said.



The parade will be followed by a card section performance by 12,000 members of the International Peace Youth Group (IPYG) with a theme of world peace and cessation of war.



At the 2014 WARP Summit, HWPL signed on the Agreement to Propose the Enactment of International Law for the Cessation of Wars and World Peace. In September of 2015, HWPL launched the HWPL International Law Peace Committee, which consists of international law scholars, professors and chief justices.



In March of 2016, HWPL proclaimed the Declaration of Peace and Cessation of War, along with international law experts from various countries.



Following the Declaration, the 'Legislate Peace' Campaign-- a global advocacy movement aimed at establishing international law consistent with the DPCW -- has been conducted worldwide. Since its beginning in March, 535,493 people from 167 different countries have signed their support for the DPCW.