http://www.dailymail.co.uk/health/article-3762206/A-life-transformed-simple-tub-Vaseline-girl-s-skin-damaged-couldn-t-talk-Today-s-thriving-student-thanks-product-ve-got-bathroom-cabinet.html
40
4
Under new online project, you can now donate as little as £2 to fund supplies like gauze,

When she arrived at hospital, Nagina was unable to move, let alone walk.

Born with a severe condition that makes the skin thick and scaly, a lack of treatment had caused her to seize up.

Her parents, struggling to even put food on the table, had not known how to deal with her condition.

Tragically, when medical workers discovered her, she was living in a shed.

Nagina, now 13, was born in a rural area of Nepal with a genetic condition called ichthyosis.

Nagina, now 13, was born in a rural area of Nepal with a genetic condition called ichthyosis. This causes a build-up of rough, scaly skin. But thanks to intensive treatment with petroleum jelly - the recommended therapy - she has gone from being unable to move to a happy student

Tragically, when medical workers discovered Nagina, she was living in a shed and lack of treatment had caused her to seize up. 'When she arrived at hospital she was very depressed and could not move. She didn’t talk,' her doctor explained

Here, a faulty gene affects the rate at which the skin regenerates. Either the shedding of old skin cells is too slow, or the skin cells reproduce at a much faster rate than they can shed. However both scenarios cause a build-up of rough, scaly skin.

There is no cure - and people with severe ichthyosis may need to spend several hours a day caring for their skin with moisturisers or such as petroleum jelly.

The solution seems simple enough. But many people such as Nagina have no access to the products we consider everyday medicine cabinet staples.

If they did, many conditions - from dry skin to more severe conditions such as hers - could be managed, vastly improving their quality of life.

Today, thanks to the devoted care of doctors - and a free lifetime's supply of Vaseline - Nagina is thriving.

Discharged from hospital, she is now attending school. And the depressed girl who never spoke or smiled is now described as 'extremely bright', with many friends.

'The difference something as simple as Vaseline has made to her life is incredible,' said Dr Bibek Banskota, medical director at the Hospital & Rehabilitation Center for Disabled Children, where Nagina was treated for five months.

'When she arrived she was very depressed and could not move. She didn’t talk,' he told MailOnline.

'So when I found out we could help her for life, I was the happiest person in the world.'

But how had she got into such a state?

The first priority was to treat Nagina's skin, which had deteriorated to a horrific state. ‘It really was a case of using creams to hydrate her skin and a lot of TLC,' said Dr Banskota. 'The nurses were amazing, they wrapped her body in Vaseline-soaked gauze every day and bathed her. She got love and care'

As the weeks went by and her skin improved, Nagina came back to life. 'She smiled for the first time, had physiotherapy to help her become mobile and she met other children with disabilities,' said Dr Banskota

THE VASELINE HEALING PROJECT Vaseline has launched a Healing Project to help heal the skin of five million people by 2020. Products will be donated to be included in the medical kits distributed by the charity Direct Relief, such as those used in emergency relief. In 2015, the project travelled to Jordan, where more than 1,000 patients were treated in a week. It also went to typhoon victims in the Philippines, Kenya, India, South Africa and Nepal (see below).

‘Many families don’t know what to do when it comes to disabilities,’ Dr Banskota told me. ‘In many countries there is a stigma associated with them.

‘Every family loves their child, but when you live in a house where there isn’t even enough to eat and drink, other issues are not a priority.’

In order to get Nagina moving, staff first had to treat her skin.

And as these harrowing pictures show, it had deteriorated to a horrific state.

‘It really was a case of using creams to hydrate her skin and a lot of TLC,' said Dr Banskota.

'The nurses were amazing, they wrapped her body in Vaseline-soaked gauze every day and bathed her. She got love and care.'

As the weeks went by and her skin improved, Nagina came back to life.

'She smiled for the first time, she had physiotherapy to help her become mobile and she met other children with disabilities.'

But in the long term, what she really needed was a constant supply of petroleum jelly to keep her skin healthy.

By chance, staff at the international charity Direct Relief heard of her story and contacted Vaseline, whom they had links with.

Nagina now attends a boarding school for children with disabilities which is funded by the hospital.

‘She is very bright – and despite being born with a deformed hand, she has adapted and has better handwriting than me,’ said Dr Banskota.

Nagina now attends a boarding school for children with disabilities, which is funded by the Hospital & Rehabilitation Center for Disabled Children, Nepal

HOW EVERYDAY AILMENTS CAN BECOME CRIPPLING

Stories such as Nagina's highlight just how life-changing simple medical interventions can be.

Most of us have Vaseline in our bathroom cabinet or make-up bag.

But without access to the simple, everyday resources we take for granted, minor issues – even dry skin – can become a much more serious health issue for those living in vulnerable conditions, as a new advertising campaign illustrates (video below).

HOW YOU CAN HELP As part of its Vaseline Healing Project (see below), the company is putting together virtual relief kits. In each kit, Vaseline has already donated petroleum jelly and lotions - and you can pay to add other pre-selected medical items as you choose. Each kit item is representative of the types of supplies provided by Direct Relief, such as thermometers, emergency blankets, soap and gauze. The medical supplies are modest, but make a big difference to health workers using them to help those in need.

For people living in places affected by political unrest or natural disasters, damage or injury to skin can have life-altering consequences.

So much so, that skin diseases rank as the sixth most common cause of death among vulnerable populations, according to the UN Refugee Agency.

A cut can lead to a serious infection, keeping a mother from working. Cracked heals can become infected, preventing victims from doing ordinary things like attending work or school.

In refugee camps, for example, burns from cooking on gas stoves or using kerosene lamps are common.

As are deeply cracked hands and feet due to overexposure to the sun, rough terrain and a lack of moisturiser. If left untreated, they can escalate.

In fact over 80 per cent of clinics surveyed by the charity Direct Relief say they see patients affected by eczema, scabies or burns.

In these places, an ordinary jar of something that so many of us take for granted, could prevent severe manifestations of basic problems such as dry skin, cracked lips and feet that can quickly deteriorate in a harsh environment.

But half of healthcare clinics surveyed do not have enough medicine or supplies to treat skin conditions - despite the fact cheap, simple products and medical supplies could help if they were available.

HORRIFIC BURNS, SCABIES AND SKIN SO DRY IT SPLITS

For people living in places affected by political unrest or natural disaster, damage or injury to skin can have life-altering consequences. For example the harsh, arid environment of the Zaatari camp in Jordan (pictured), home to thousands of Syrian refugees, has wreaked havoc their skin. Many are unable to walk or work as a result

Many refugees in the camp suffer from scabies, due to crowded living, and burns from cooking stoves and hot water (file pic)

A FIRST AID KIT STAPLE Petroleum jelly has been used in crisis situations for decades. In World War One, it brought relief to US soldiers in the trenches by treating cuts, bruises and easing sunburn. And in World War Two, the Surgeon General of the US Military commissioned a sterile Vaseline-coated gauze to send to the front line. A century on, it is still a staple part of medical kits on the front line, recommended by the the Centres for Disease Control and Prevention, the medical charity MSF and the UN Refugee Agency.

Two doctors who have witnessed this first-hand are dermatologists Grace Bandow, f rom Rhode Island, and Samer Jaber, from New York.

In the wake of the Syrian refugee crisis, the pair travelled to Jordan in 2014 to provide medical treatment for those living in camps.

They arrived with plentiful stocks of medicines, syringes and gauze - but soon realised they had omitted a vital resource.

Writing in the Washington Post upon their return to the US, they said: 'We knew refugee camps produce the kind of close, dirty quarters that allow minor diseases to flourish.

'We anticipated scabies, lice and other infections associated with crowded living.

'But on the ground, we realised how the simplest skin remedies – sometimes taken for granted in our lives – can make an extraordinary difference. Vaseline is heavy - and it never occurred to us to prioritise it.'





The harsh, arid environment was wreaking havoc with the refugees' skin.

And the living conditions meant burns were a frequent occurrence.

Two doctors who have witnessed the effects of skin problems first hand are dermatologists Grace Bandow, from Rhode Island, and Samer Jaber (pictured), from New York. The pair teamed up with Vaseline to help victims of poverty and natural disasters through the Healing Project. Dr Jaber is pictured during the latest mission in Nepal

'In Jordan it's just constant exposure to the sun - and these people are pretty fair-skinned,' Dr Bandow told me.

'Imagine if someone sticks you in the desert with no skin protection.'

Many had also walked hundreds of miles to reach the camps, destroying their feet in the process.

'We met one man who, after a long wait, offered us the bottom of his feet - which had deep, painful cracks,' she said.

'They had literally been worn out from travelling hundreds of miles on hot sandy soil in rubber sandals.

'He said if he could fix his feet, he might be able to find a job to support his children. He had been a civil engineer in Syria. Now, he is confined to a tent. Waiting. He asked us for Vaseline.'

Following their article, the pair teamed up with Vaseline to help victims of poverty and natural disasters through the Healing Project.

And a year later they returned to Jordan to treat more than 1,000 Syrian refugees living in the enormous Zaatari camp.

Once again, those they treated were victims of the circumstances they had been forced to live in.

THE BABY BURNT IN THE TENT SHE CALLED HOME

This little girl was left with horrific burns after her family's tent caught fire in a Syrian refugee camp

Her parents had been cooking on a gas stove that suddenly exploded and within seconds, the tent was engulfed in flames

One harrowing example was a family nearly killed when their tent caught fire. They had been cooking on a gas stove that suddenly exploded.

Within seconds, the tent was engulfed in flames. In the chaos, the family fled – only to realise seconds later, to their horror, the baby was still inside.

Her father dashed back through the flames to rescue the her and while they both survived, they suffered horrific burns.

'Burns are very common because people cook over gas stoves in the camp and they sometimes explode or flare and cause fires,' said Dr Bandow.

'Children often get burns from boiling water that spills due to the cramped living quarters, while caravans fires spread quickly because people don't have proper ways to extinguish them.'

By the time Dr Bandow saw the pair, over a week after the fire, they still hadn’t received the medical care they so desperately needed.

'The bandages they had on were old and crusted - and probably colonised with bacteria. This meant the burns were weeping and the dry gauze was sticking to them. So when you pulled the gauze off, the skin came with it.'

The little girl was in excruciating pain and cried constantly.

By the time Dr Bandow saw her, over a week after the fire, she still hadn’t received the medical care she desperately needed. She left the family with a supply of bandages, ointment and Vaseline to help the skin heal

'Obviously in a hospital they would have received specialist care. The best thing we had was Vaseline imbedded gauze,' said Dr Bandow.

'By putting something greasy between the wound and the bandage, you create a barrier that won’t stick. That’s the key.'

She also left them with bandages, ointment and Vaseline to help the skin heal.

Recalling that day, she said: 'What was disturbing on so many levels was knowing this was a purely situational event.

'There is no reason why this middle-class family should have been living in a tent in a desert in a country that wasn't theirs.

'The wounds they suffered were purely environmental and totally preventable.

'And because they didn't have access to the appropriate care, they had to sit there and allow things get worse.'

THE EARTHQUAKE VICTIMS LIVING IN TIN-ROOFED SHACKS

Chaos following the April 2015 earthquake in Nepal. This was followed by a second one on May 12, where the epicentre was six miles south of the town of Bahrabise, in Nepal’s central region. Pictured is the road from Bahrabise to Lipim, the last Nepali village before the Tibetan Chinese border

A year on, many victims who lost their homes are living in flimsy shelters. The precarious dwellings are made of corrugated metal, plastic tarpaulin and whatever other materials people could salvage

It is nearly 18 months since Nepal was hit with the earthquake that left 9,000 dead and destroyed 600,000 homes.

Measuring 7.8 in magnitude, the quake on April 25 was followed by a second one on May 12.

The epicentre was halfway between Kathmandu and Mount Everest, six miles south of the town of Bahrabise, in Nepal’s central region .

On the first anniversary this April, the Red Cross said four million victims are still living in flimsy shelters after the disaster.

Last month, the Vaseline Healing Project visited the village of Bahrabise to provide a free health clinic for local people and those in the surrounding villages

This 58-year-old farmer suffered burns when she was electrocuted. Living in a temporary shelter following the earthquake, she was outside when electrical wires crashed down. The incident left her unconscious and in hospital. Weeks on, she still has a large, weeping burn on her arm that is struggling to heal - and causing her immense pain

Many of the precarious temporary dwellings are made of corrugated metal, plastic tarpaulin and whatever other materials people could salvage.

But the Red Cross has warned these temporary shelters and conditions pose a threat to their health and well-being.

Last month, the Vaseline Healing Project visited the village of Bahrabise to provide a free health clinic for local people and those in the surrounding villages.

Once again the team - including Dr Bandow and Dr Jaber - encountered a mix of ailments from itchy skin caused by the hot weather to victims of unsafe housing.

Surya Bhadur, 40, had suffered bad burns when ash and cinder from an open fire had blown into his face

Dr Bandow treated him with Vaseline. This acts as a barrier to prevent the wounds from becoming infected

He was sent away with a tub and told to keep applying the petroleum jelly to the wound

HOW YOU CAN HELP

As part of its Vaseline Healing Project, the company is putting together virtual relief kits.

Each kit already contains donated petroleum jelly and lotions - and you can pay to add other pre-selected medical items as you choose.

Each kit item is representative of the types of supplies provided by Direct Relief, such as thermometers, emergency blankets, soap and gauze.

The medical supplies are modest, but make a big difference to health workers using them to help those in need.

www.vaseline.co.uk/kitbuilder