http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/uk-to-provide-technical-assistance-to-india-on-smart-cities/1/739750.html
40
4
Highlights 1 UKs Development Min Priti Patel meets PM Modi.

2 Priti Patel discussed smart cities extensively.

3 UK will provide technical assistance to India.

UK's new Development Minister Priti Patel is in India on her first official visit in her new role since the Theresa May government came to power. She met Prime Minister Narendra Modi today and also held discussions with Urban Development Minister Venkaiah Naidu and Finance Minister Arun Jaitley yesterday.

Patel announced that the UK will provide technical assistance to India for developing smart cities. She praised PM Modi's investment initiatives and business reforms.

Patel a strong advocate of Brexit believes her nation is moving away from the European Union will open up new trade opportunities for India and the UK. When asked if as a member of the UN Security Council, UK will pay heed to Pakistan's request of International intervention in Kashmir, the UK minister categorically stated that Kashmir is a bilateral issue between India and Pakistan.

Priti Patel spoke exclusively to India Today's Smita Sharma.



Q. You are here on a mission, to talk about development and UK will partner with India on smart cities. Tell us about it.



I am delighted to announce today that my department is providing support to the ministry in Delhi to look forward to technical assistance. This is about the know-how of the mechanics behind developing a smart city. I am looking at infrastructure, real mechanics and components to put various smart city development projects together at national and also state level. I will also visit Bhopal and meet the chief minister and have discussions to further advance interstate development initiatives.

Q. We have seen flooding in investors' hub Gurgaon and also in metropolitan city of Bengaluru. Is civic apathy a huge problem for smart cities development?

We have to be very proactive in recognising the challenges that different regions and different parts of the country face. There is no identical blue print that can be established for every single of the hundreds of smart cities that are being proposed. So looking at the floods, drain water management -that's just one component .we have to take that one component and integrate that with technology, roads, transport to wider level. Look at energy and sufficiency of supply of energy and water, water management and water drainage as well. So these are the various strands that come together.



Q. What is the one big challenge in India for smart cities?

It's the ambition. The government is incredibly ambitious and they should be commended for having that ambition. It puts the challenge out to other governments around the world and partners and businesses in private sectors as well to say come to the table, bring you a framework and also bring you the assistance so you can show these projects are viable and can be developed.

I had a very constructive engagement with the Minister for Urban Development. He is a champion of smart cities and he is being clear with us in ways where we can add value. We are absolutely doing everything we can and we will continue to do more. I think there is a challenge coupled with expectation and management as well because these are long term projects. These are not short term projects that go up overnight. Natural disasters too become a component when you look at geographies of certain parts of the county.



Q. How do you see social harmony as an aspect to development and investors wanting to come in? Does beef row, cow vigilantism, security issues impact brand India from an investors' perspective?

For foreign investors India has been very successful due to FDI. When you look at PM Modi has succeeded in attracting investment for India. Ease of doing business makes India an attractive investment location.

Looking at how easy it is to transact, what are the regulatory environments like, how competitive is it, how open is the market place. So World Bank, the UK we are strategic partners supporting India on that journey. It is a good journey and India already advancing in ease of doing business and we will continue to provide support.

Q. You were a strong advocate of Brexit .Business communities in India say Brexit does not augur well for India .How do you react?

On the contrary we see new opportunities. We should recognise as well that the European Referendum result was a democratic mandate and now says to British Govt that we will deliver that result. Point about Brexit is that it is about our relationship with the European institutions, so the regulatory institutions that put forward laws and regulations, we want the freedom to succeed. That is exactly what we will do through trade agreements, through establishments of new trade departments.

It is incredibly encouraging and positive. It is about growth and vision. Having the vision, the dynamism, the ability to transact and have new trade deals and new relationship of commerce which institutions of EU have provided with new opportunities for UK and India

Q. UK has a seat on the Security Council, Pakistan has been trying to internationalise the Kashmir issue. With the ongoing agitation and unrest in Kashmir valley what is UK's view On Kashmir ?



I am not going to comment on the specifics here and this is very much an India and Pakistan relationship. My visit is here to cement as ever and show the strength of that strategic partnership between the UK and India. When Mr. Modi came to India last year we had strategic discussion on counter terrorism and security .We stand shoulder to shoulder and these are strong issues UK and the world has interest in.

Q. So there will be no third party intervention in Kashmir? Do you think India and Pakistan should sit down and talk?



Exactly that is for the two countries and has always been for the two countries. But on the big issues of security and counter terrorism we stand shoulder to shoulder in supporting India within that macro landscape of those big issues.

Also read:

Centre directs IITs to shape smart city plan for PM's constituency

