http://aninews.in/newsdetail-MnNhaU9q/Mjc1ODkwc2FpT2o/all-party-meet-will-send-positive-signal-in-kashmir-defence-expert.html
40
4
All-party meet will send positive signal in Kashmir: Defence expert Updated: Aug 13, 2016 08:56 IST

New Delhi, Aug 13 ( ANI ): A day after an all party meeting took place indiscussing the ongoing unrest in Jammu and Kashmir following the killing of Hizbul Mujahideen commander Buran Wani, Defence expertsaid it is a good political initiative which will send a positive message in Kashmir.

"The all-party meeting attended by the ruling and the opposition party and the resolution taken on Kashmir by the Lok Sabha yesterday will send out a positive message in Kashmir. These are some good political initiatives which will allow the talks to proceed peacefully," he told ANI

He said the situation in Kashmir for the past 30 to 40 days has become grim due to curfew and subsequent protests, however, Prime Minister Narendra Modi's firm commitment on 'Insaniyat (Humanity) Jamhuriat (democracy), and Kashmiriyat' might become instrumental in resorting normalcy in Kashmir.

The all-party meet which was held yesterday was chaired by Prime Minister Modi and was attend by Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh, Finance Minister Arun Jaitley, former prime minister Manmohan Singh along with other opposition party leaders.

Addressing the media after an all-party meeting, Singh said the leaders of all parties put forth their concerns in one voice and with the right intent.

"I have assured all the political parties that every suggestion, which they have put forward to bring normalcy in Jammu and Kashmir would be taken into consideration," he said.

"The Centre has decided on a development package of over Rs 80,000 crores for the overall development of Jammu and Kashmir and its people," he added.

He further said that there were no talks about sending an all-party delegation to Kashmir.

Divulging further details, Jaitley said all political parties were of the view that there should be no compromise on issues of national security.

"All the parties were also of the view that the problems being faced by the common man in Jammu and Kashmir must be looked into. Security forces have been advised to act with utmost restraint, curfew has been relaxed in several parts of Jammu and Kashmir," he said.

The Finance Minister said that the decision to call separatists and Hurriyat leaders for talks would be evaluated by the government as per the prevailing situation.

During the four-hour-long meeting some of the opposition parties also asked the government to take a few immediate confidence-building measures like putting an end to the use of pellet guns and relaxing Armed Force (Special Powers) Act in some parts of the valley.

has been on the boil for more than a month with thousands injured and more than 50 killed during protests against Wani's killing. ( ANI