http://leadership.ng/news/545868/edo-2016-sultan-counsels-politicians-against-violence
40
4
Less than four week to the September 10th Governorship elections in Edo State, the spiritual leader of Muslim faithful in Nigeria and the Sultan of Sokoto, Muhammadu Sa’ad Abubakar, (IV) , yesterday called on all political leaders and stakeholders to ensure that the wishes and aspiration of the ordinary masses prevails in the forthcoming elections in the state.

The Sultan who is also the President General of Nigerian National Supreme Council of Islamic Affairs insisted that Nigerians must unite irrespective of our political, religious or ethnic diversity on order to confront the hydra-headed problem threatening our cooperate existence as a nation.

The Sultan of Sokoto, His Eminence, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar III, has also commended Governor Adams Oshiomhole of Edo State for his visible infrastructural development in the State.

Abubakar spoke yesterday during a courtesy visit to Governor Adams Oshiomhole when he led a delegation of Nigerian National Supreme Council of Islamic Affairs who were in the state for it annual national meeting holding in Benin City, the Edo state Capital.

The Muslim head also use the opportunity to commend the governor’s developmental stride in state noting that the state has witnessed a lot of transformation in the last 7 and a half years.

He state “We also want to call on all politicians in Edo state as they are preparing for the election next month to put the interest of the state first and that of the common man because without people they cannot be leaders. Throughout campaign and swearing in of the governor we still need people, they should not be any violence, it should be free, fair and credible and whoever the people decide to select to replace the Comrade governor all should put hands together and thank God for his choice and work with whoever God’s put in government house.

“Leadership should be service to the people and not ourselves and we must also consult with people before taking any decision because leadership is all about consultation and consultation is the height of any good leadership. When you do good things people will be happy and ask you to go on but when you do otherwise the people will ask you to change and review those decisions. When policies are made, they are meant to serve people and when people complain and cry over such policies it should be changed.

“Leaders must also listen to the people and as such we will have a good society, let work towards eliminating crime in the society, Nigeria is experiencing its own share but we are even much more better than other Countries when it comes to crime, so let’s put heads together irrespective of religion, ethnicity and salvage the situation in our Country. Let the economy work where we will be sure of 3 square meal a day”