http://www.business-standard.com/article/pti-stories/shah-rukh-should-have-returned-from-us-says-sena-116081300279_1.html
43
4
Shah Rukh Khan should have returned from US, says Shiv Sena

It was Khan's third detention at a US airport in seven years

Superstar Shah Rukh Khan, who was detained at an American airport, should have displayed his patriotic credentials and returned to India after suffering another "insult" in the US, which would have been a "slap on the face of America," said on Saturday.

Reacting to Khan's detention at a airport, for the third time in seven years, Sena said despite this "common occurrence," the "tolerant actor" goes to the repeatedly.

"This has been a common occurrence with Shah Rukh at most big airports. Still, this tolerant actor goes to the repeatedly, only to get insulted," an editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana said.

"He should have returned, displaying patriotic credentials, and telling the that 'I won't step into your country if you are going to insult me in this manner,' the Sena said.

"Had he done so, it would have been a slap on the face of America. The views every Muslim as a terrorist," the Sena said.

The Bollywood actor was detained briefly at the International Airport on Friday, after which he expressed disappointment on social media.

"I fully understand & respect security with the way the world is, but to be detained at immigration every damn time really really sucks," (sic) the actor tweeted.

In April 2012, he was detained at the White Plains airport near for overtwo hours and, in 2009, at the Newark Airport in for nearly two hours.

Ambassador to India Richard Verma has apologised to for his detention at airport and said the was working to ensure that it does not happen again.

The Sena also suggested that the Khans, a reference to other Bollywood bigs with that surname, should give direction to the 'misguided" youth of who are on rampage.

"The Khans of Bollywood should take to Twitter to 'show direction' to misguided youth in who are on a rampage," the Sena said.

The editorial also referred to last November's incident when Bollywood actor said that his wife wondered whether they should move out of India, as she feared for the safety of their children in a climate of "insecurity".

That was the time when the issue of "rising intolerance" in India was being hotly debated, and when several artists and authors returned government awards to protest "intolerance".

Press Trust of India