http://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/edmonton/fort-mcmurray-s-high-schoolers-finally-graduate-after-wildfire-disruption-1.3737932
10
1
As he took the mic at Father Patrick Mercredi High School Friday, Fort McMurray's fire chief Darby Allen acknowledged he wasn't the usual choice to address a high school graduation.

"I have never done a benediction before. I am not sure I can even spell benediction," Allen joked at the beginning of his address to the 2016 graduating class.

After getting the grads to join him in a couple of chants, Allen became more serious in his four-minute, unscripted address.

"Today's a special graduation. Perhaps one that will be never seen in our history," Allen said

"You are part of that history. You will forever be part of that history."

Allen was the face of the effort to fight the massive fire that engulfed Fort McMurray in May, forcing the largest evacuation due to fire in Canadian history.

The evacuation forced 90,000 people to leave Fort McMurray and surrounding communities.People in the least damaged neighbourhoods were able to return in early June. Residents of Beacon Hill and Abasand are being allowed to return next week.

"I can't imagine how traumatic that day must have been," Allen said. "Your moms and your dads got you together and you trundled down that highway. And you did it magnificently."

Graduates walked into the auditorium for the 2016 graduation ceremony at Father Patrick Mercredi High School. (David Thurton/ CBC News)

Allen wasn't the only one to reflect on how the wildfire impacted the students.

"I'm sure this year has been a very interesting year for you. You've persevered through an incredible event that impacted so many. And literally the nation was watching," Fort McMurray-Wood Buffalo MLA Tany Yao said.

"You probably wondered if you would see this school again and I bet you missed it more than you thought you would."

Holy Trinity High School principal Lucy More applauded the resilience of the graduating class. (David Thurton/ CBC News)

Students at Holy Trinity High School also graduated Friday.

Principal Lucy More said the fire turned some of her students into adults.

"They took responsibility for younger siblings, for an older generation and for themselves and stepped up when they were needed," More said.

"That resilience will see you through whatever trials come your way."

As the schools look forward to the new school year, some aren't sure how large next year's graduating class will be.

Both Fort McMurray's Catholic and public school boards expect student enrolment to be down about 5 or 10 per cent after the wildfire. The Catholic school board expects teacher numbers to fall by about 4 to per cent.