https://www.yahoo.com/news/britains-eu-man-urges-security-links-despite-brexit-175749411.html
40
4
Julian King, pictured on June 21, 2016, if his appointment is confirmed by the EU parliament, will lead implementation of what is known as the European Agenda on Security (AFP Photo/Thomas Samson)

Strasbourg (France) (AFP) - The man likely to be Britain's last European Commissioner on Monday urged member states to forge closer cooperation against terrorism even as Brexit deprives the EU of a major security player.

Julian King, currently British ambassador to France, told a European Parliament hearing on his appointment as Security Commissioner, that he had been in Nice in July when more than 80 people were mowed down by a lorry in an attack claimed by Islamic State.

"I saw for myself the devastating aftermath of the attack ... which killed so many people, injured many more and traumatised Europe," King told MEPs.

"It brought home to me again the true human cost of terrorism," he told Parliament's Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs committee meeting in the French city of Strasbourg.

European Commission head Jean-Claude Juncker last month named King to the new post of Security Commissioner tasked with fighting terrorism, and organised and cyber crime.

King is meant to lead implementation of what is known as the European Agenda on Security that the Commission, the European Union's executive arm, adopted in April last year.

Several MEPs questioned however how he could really carry out that mission when his country has voted to quit the 28-nation bloc but King said the two issues were completely separate.

"I am not here as a representative of the British government and if others want to ask about issues to do with Brexit and the British government's position, I'm afraid they will get the same reply."

King's predecessor Jonathan Hill, who held the key financial affairs portfolio, stepped down after the June Brexit vote left London and Brussels needing to find a replacement and a new role for Britain on the Commission.

- Member states must cooperate -

King said he believed he could "make a real contribution in an area which is top of citizens' concerns" and promised that he would faithfully serve European citizens.

He recalled a series of terrorist atrocities over the 15 years since the 9/11 attacks on the United States which had exacted a deadly toll and required joint action to counter.

"In today’s world, security of one member state is the security of all," he said in prepared remarks.

"National security remains the sole responsibility of member states. But they cannot address alone threats which are transnational," he said.

Saying he would work closely with his peers on the Commission and in Parliament, King said all now needed "redouble our efforts to deliver the security that our citizens expect."

Brexit will deprive the EU of a major, nuclear-armed NATO military power with vast counter-terror experience at home and abroad but officials on both sides have stressed that cooperation in security will remain a key priority.

The European Commission led by Juncker comprises 28 portfolios -- one for each member state -- and crucially draws up the legislation to give effect to the political direction agreed by the European Council, which groups the member state governments.

The full European Parliament is expected to vote on King's appointment later this week.

British Prime Minister Theresa May has said she will not begin formal negotiations on leaving the EU until early next year, setting the clock ticking on a two-year deadline.