http://www.4-traders.com/AGRIUM-INC-1408946/news/Agrium-Canadian-Fertilizer-Giants-Agrium-and-Potash-to-Merge-2nd-Update-23042317/
40
4
By Judy McKinnon and Austen Hufford

TORONTO -- Canadian fertilizer giants Agrium Inc. and Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. confirmed plans to merge on Monday, in a deal that would create a crop-nutrient giant worth about $27 billion.

Potash shareholders will own about 52% of the new company and Agrium shareholders will own about 48%. The two have a current combined market capitalization of about $27 billion, and the merged company will have annual revenue of nearly $21 billion.

Joining forces helps Saskatchewan-based Potash, the world's largest fertilizer producer by capacity, insulate its earnings against volatile moves in crop-nutrient prices by giving it access to Agrium's steadier retail business that sells fertilizer, seeds and equipment.

Calgary, Alberta-based Agrium gains the ability to greatly bolster its production of potash and other fertilizer ingredients, representing a bet that demand and prices for these products have bottomed and are poised for a rebound.

Potash prices have been under pressure since 2013, when Russian producer Uralkali JSC pulled out of its sales partnership with Belarusian Potash Co. That ended a cartel system that, along with a North American trading group that includes both Potash and Agrium, helped to control global prices for the fertilizer.

CEO Chuck Magro said in a conference call Monday morning the planned merger is the culmination of two years of private talks with Potash Corp. CEO Jochen Tilk. "We have a common view of where the fertilizer world is going," Mr. Magro said.

The merger between Potash and Agrium adds to a string of transactions involving the global farming sector, including the pending merger of Dow Chemical Co. and DuPont and China National Chemical Corp.'s planned takeover of Swiss pesticide and seed company Syngenta AG.

U.S. lawmakers said last month that they plan to hold a hearing to examine this wave of mergers, saying the deals could potentially reduce competition and lead to higher prices.

The Potash-Agrium tie-up is expected to face scrutiny from antitrust regulators in the U.S. and Canada, among others, over the combined companies' North American share of global potash production capacity, analysts say. The two together would control just 23% of global production capacity, but 60% or more of North American capacity, ahead of Mosaic and Intrepid Potash, National Bank said in a note ahead of Monday's announcement.

Mr. Magro, who is to become CEO of the new company, said he is "highly confident" the proposed merger won't trigger antitrust issues. He said the potash market has become very competitive with the emergence of new producers, and there is very little overlap in the companies nitrogen and phosphate operations.

The companies said they estimate the deal will generate up to $500 million in annual operating synergies. They will have almost 20,000 employees.

Agrium has more than 1,200 retail outlets, mostly located in Canada and North America, and sells a little more than 10% of the nitrogen, phosphate and potash it manufactures to industrial customers. The rest goes to retail customers.

Potash's Mr. Tilk will be executive chairman of the combined company. The new company will be based in Saskatoon, Potash's current headquarters.

For the first six months of 2016, Potash's earnings fell 75% to $196 million, as the company's average sale price for the fertilizer declined to $154 a ton in the second quarter, from $273 in the year-earlier period and $387 a ton in the fourth-quarter of 2014 before the collapse of the Russian-Belrusian sales partnership.

Agrium's earnings declined almost 18% to $568 million in the first half of 2016, from the year-earlier period.

Since last year, potash sales have been hurt by Brazil's slumping currency, which undercut demand from one of the world's big consumers of the fertilizer. More recently, delays in the signing of supply contracts with China and India, two of the other largest fertilizer markets, also hurt pricing.

Both companies, though, say they are more optimistic for potash over the rest of the year amid signs volume sales will increase. Outside of North America, Potash and Agrium sell the crop nutrient through Canpotex, a Saskatchewan-based exporter that also includes rival Mosaic Co.

In July, Canpotex signed new supply pacts with Indian customers to cover the next three months and a deal with China for shipments to the end of 2016.

Under the deal, Potash shareholders will receive 0.4 common share of the new company for each common share they own and Agrium shareholders will receive 2.23 common shares of the new company for each common share of Agrium they own.

On Friday, Agrium shares closed at $124.14 Canadian dollars ($94.69) and Potash shares closed at C$22.14.

The companies first announced they were in preliminary discussions late last month.

The deal is expected to close in mid-2017 and is subject to customary closing conditions, including approvals by regulators, Canadian courts and shareholders.

Jacquie McNish contributed to this article

Write to Judy McKinnon at judy.mckinnon@wsj.com and Austen Hufford at austen.hufford@wsj.com