http://www.4-traders.com/news/North-Korea-s-Nuclear-Test-Raises-Stakes-for-U-S-Japan-Defense-Talks--23039593/
43
4
North Korea's recent nuclear detonation and accelerated missile testing raised the impetus for closer military cooperation between Tokyo and Washington as Japan's new defense minister prepared for her first official U.S. visit this week.

Tomomi Inada, a lawyer with no defense experience, is expected to meet with U.S. Secretary of Defense Ash Carter on Thursday, U.S. officials said, after becoming defense minister last month.

North Korea's nuclear program poses a "serious and imminent threat," she told military officers in Tokyo on Monday, warning also of rising tensions with China over disputed islands in the East China Sea. To cope with security challenges, Japan needs to reinforce its alliance with the U.S. and build cooperation with other countries such as the Philippines and Australia, she said.

North Korea fired three missiles last week that landed about 150 miles off the west coast of Okushiri Island, close to Hokkaido, the northernmost of Japan's four main islands. In August, a North Korean missile landed around the same distance from the coast of Japan's main island of Honshu.

The missiles, followed by the nuclear explosion last week, have intensified recriminations and diplomacy from Beijing to Tokyo to Washington to New York, where the United Nations is considering steps to penalize Pyongyang.

Mr. Carter last week said China, which is North Korea's chief economic and diplomatic partner, bore "great responsibility" for Pyongyang's nuclear stance.

A Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, referring to the planned deployment of a U.S.-built missile-defense system in South Korea, warned that "unilateral action" would aggravate tension. On Monday, she said both the cause of the nuclear problem and the solution lies with "the U.S., not China."

Against that backdrop, China and Russia on Monday kicked off eight days of long-planned joint military exercises, highlighting an increasingly close relationship between two powers with significant differences with the U.S. For the first time, they held the exercises in the South China Sea, another source of building U.S.-Chinese tension. China's Navy said the exercises would involve drills to practice defending and seizing islands, a move likely to unsettle neighbors with overlapping territorial claims in the sea. China's air force also said that it sent jet fighters, bombers and other aircraft on a drill over the Western Pacific on Monday.

Following its nuclear test last week, North Korea said that it can now easily put a nuclear device on a missile, escalating concerns. North Korea often threatens Japan, the U.S. and South Korea with attack, citing the need to pre-emptively counter an invasion by the U.S. and its allies. The U.S. has about 54,000 military personnel based in Japan, many of them on the southern island of Okinawa.

On Monday, South Korea's Defense Ministry said North Korea appears capable of conducting another nuclear test at any time. Pyongyang has expanded its nuclear-test site in its far northeast in recent months with new tunneling for underground detonations of nuclear bombs.

Dictator Kim Jong Un has ordered further missile and nuclear testing this year as North Korea pursues a range of nuclear-tipped missiles to threaten the U.S. and its allies.

Japan's Defense Ministry recently submitted a request for an increase in its budget that includes funds to expand the coverage area of its Patriot antimissile systems to better defend against North Korea. The ministry declined to comment on her U.S. trip.

Ms. Inada's first trip to the U.S. as defense minister at first looked like a get-acquainted visit, but tackling the North Korea threat has become an urgent agenda item.

"She's not the first Japanese defense minister to have little experience with defense issues, but it will require her to be a fast learner," said Ralph Cossa, president of the Pacific Forum CSIS, a Honolulu-based think tank.

U.S.-Japanese defense cooperation has increased under Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. A 2015 agreement on defense guidelines increased U.S.-Japan coordination in many areas, including maritime security and missile defense.

Ms. Inada and Mr. Abe both criticized China in speeches at the Monday event after Tokyo said four Chinese coast-guard vessels sailed close to the Japanese-controlled Senkaku islands on Sunday. Earlier a Chinese naval vessel entered waters around the islands.

The countries have been facing off in the East China Sea over the uninhabited islands, called Diaoyu in China. Without naming China specifically, Mr. Abe referred to a "violation of Japan's territorial waters by a warship," saying this put Tokyo in an "extremely severe situation."

In the U.S., Ms. Inada is likely to discuss the maritime tensions as well as the long-stalled relocation of an American military base on Japan's southern island of Okinawa. Mr. Abe's administration has faced strong local resistance to the plan to move the base to a rural area. Opposition to the U.S. military presence in Okinawa surged in June after the rape and murder of a local woman. A U.S. military contractor has been charged in the case.

Ms. Inada's nationalist views have caused friction with U.S. ally South Korea. Before taking office she regularly visited the Yasukuni Shrine in Tokyo, which South Koreans and Chinese see as glorifying Japan's military past. Since taking office, Ms. Inada has said she wants to improve ties with South Korea and has refrained from visiting the shrine.

Te-Ping Chen and Jeremy Page in Beijing contributed to this article.

Write to Alastair Gale at alastair.gale@wsj.com and Chieko Tsuneoka at chieko.Tsuneoka@dowjones.com