https://www.yahoo.com/news/latest-turkey-uses-truce-send-aid-syrias-aleppo-090906597.html
42
4
In this photo released on the official Facebook page of the Syrian Presidency, Syrian President Bashar Assad, fifth left, prays at the dawn Eid al-Adha prayers at the Saad ibn Muaaz Mosque in Daraya, a blockaded Damascus suburb, Syria, Monday, Sept. 12, 2016. (Syrian Presidency via Facebook)

BEIRUT (AP) — The Latest on the civil war in Syria, where a cease-fire brokered by the United States and Russia began at sundown (all times local):

10:45 p.m.

More than a dozen Syrian rebel groups have harshly criticized a U.S. and Russian agreement aimed at reducing the violence, but did not reject a cease-fire that went into effect at sundown.

The 21 insurgent groups, including the powerful Ahrar al-Sham and Army of Islam, welcomed plans to deliver aid to besieged areas of the northern city of Aleppo and said they would help facilitate it.

But their statement, released hours after the cease-fire took effect Monday, denounced the "unjust agreement" between Washington and Moscow to target the al-Qaida-linked Jabhat Fatah al-Sham group.

The groups say the international community is not serious about resolving Syria's conflict.

They say the only alternative they have is "to go ahead in our battle against the regime and its allies until the last bullet in our guns."

___

9:30 p.m.

Secretary of State John Kerry is imploring Syria's warring sides to adhere to a nationwide cease-fire.

Kerry says there has been a reduction in violence since the truce began at sundown on Monday in Syria. Kerry negotiated the truce with Russia, a key ally of Syrian President Bashar Assad's government, and announced it with his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov last week.

For it to work, Kerry says the rebels must stop intermingling with al-Qaida-linked militants and Syria's government must allow aid deliveries to besieged areas.

Kerry says Syria's government can continue bombing missions against al-Qaida-linked militants in opposition areas until a new U.S.-Russian military partnership against the extremists begins. That is supposed to happen after a week of calm.

___

8:25 p.m.

Germany is urging all sides to respect the cease-fire in Syria brokered by the United States and Russia.

Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier told reporters Monday that with the deal, "we now have at least a halfway realistic chance to finally get help to the war-stricken people of Syria."

He added that "games on the backs of people and tactics to gain territory must now come to an end."

The cease-fire went into effect at 7 p.m. (1600 GMT), but powerful rebel groups have yet to say whether they will abide by it. The Syrian government, and its allies Russia and Iran, have endorsed the deal.

___

8:20 p.m.

Russia has voiced concern that some Syrian rebel groups may not adhere to a cease-fire and is calling on Washington to ensure their compliance.

The cease-fire went into effect at 7 p.m. (1600 GMT) on Monday, but some of the most powerful rebel groups have yet to say whether they will abide by it. The Syrian government and its allies have endorsed the deal.

The Russian Foreign Ministry voiced particular concern about Ahrar al-Sham, a powerful ultraconservative rebel group that has yet to accept the truce.

The ministry says that under the terms of the cease-fire, humanitarian convoys are to begin entering the besieged city of Aleppo along the Castello road. It added that another road south of Aleppo will also be open for humanitarian access.

___

8:15 p.m.

A main Syrian opposition group linked to several small, moderate rebel factions says they will deal "positively" with the truce brokered by the U.S. and Russia.

The Syrian National Coalition says that any effort that aims to end the suffering of the people "is a step in the right direction and we will deal with it positively."

The statement was released at sunset, when the truce went into effect. It says rebel groups will have the right to defend themselves if they come under attack by government forces.

Powerful insurgent groups such as the ultraconservative Ahrar al-Sham have not said whether they will abide by the truce brokered last week.

The coalition said Russia should not take part in monitoring the truce because it backs the President Bashar Assad's government.

___

7:05 p.m.

Syria's army says it has begun implementing a U.S.-Russian cease-fire, but the country's most powerful insurgent groups have not yet said whether they will abide by it.

The Syrian government and its main allies, Russia and Iran, say they will abide by the weeklong truce, which was set to begin at 7 p.m. (1600 GMT) on Monday.

Half an hour before the truce went into effect, violence was reported in several areas throughout Syria.