http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/701330/Ukraine-won-t-fight-russia-ukraine-uk-ambassador
42
4
Natalia Galibarenko declared that instead of a "fight" her country will win over people in the region creating a "success story". Ms Galibarenko's comments come as security experts have warned Crimea could descend into a bloody war within a week amid rising tensions which could escalate during celebrations to mark Ukraine’s independence day on August 24. Both Russia and Ukraine have been urged to reduce tensions in the region as fears grow that Vladimir Putin’s army could become involved in a bloody conflict with the West if they decide to wage war over the Black Sea peninsula, which was annexed in 2014. However, Ukraine’s UK ambassador rebuked claims her country will enter into a war with Russia and instead aims to win over hearts and minds with positivity.

BBC · GETTY The Ukrainian ambassador to the UK said her country will not engage in war with Russia

Speaking on BBC’s Newsnight, she said: "We cannot be sure that people living on the Peninsula now are really happy with the Russian utilitarian regime. "We are receiving information and confirmations that there is already a crackdown on human rights in Crimea. "People are not that really happy about the restrictions of their right. "So our idea is not that we’ll be fighting for Crimea as a battlefield, we will be trying to create a success story in Ukraine in order to show to people on the peninsula that you would be better with us in Ukraine."

GETTY Reports have emerged that Russia has moved tanks into the area as diplomatic talks continue

It has been reported Russian tanks have been spotted moving into occupied territory in Crimea. Witnesses reported large amounts of Russian military equipment and troops gathering near the towns of Dzhankoy and Armyansk in northern Crimea, close to the border with Ukraine. Information has been passed to the British Ministry of Defence detailing Putin's war secrets obtained by Ukrainian special intelligence officers. Highly experienced officers from Kiev visited Britain last month to give briefings on the way Russian sabotage missions and exploit social media.

Inside the Russian Army Thu, October 27, 2016 A look inside the powerful Russian Army. Play slideshow Ministry of Defence Russia 1 of 31 Combat divers are armed with night vision goggles and underwater submachine guns

Ms Galibarenko was confident that the West would intervene and support Ukraine in the event the situation is escalated by Russian forces. She continued: "We expect the West won’t be tricked by the Russian federation. "There is a strict sanction policy, there is also a policy of support to Ukraine and I think that our western should follow this way. "I would expect from the West more military help, more military technical support, but on the other hand I do understand their arguments about, for example, not providing lethal weapons to Ukraine."

GETTY A tank operated by pro-Russian rebels is photographed in Ukraine in 2014