http://www.bangkokpost.com/news/general/1121813/reform-of-police-focuses-on-forensics
46
4
Forensic science has been highlighted as a key feature of police reform to boosting efficiency in the investigation and prosecution of criminal proceedings.

Charnchao: Working to improve forensic practices

Representatives of the Justice Ministry and the Royal Thai Police yesterday met to discuss matters relating to police reform.

Speaking after the meeting, Justice Ministry permanent secretary Charnchao Chaiyanukij said the meeting focused on how to improve the country's forensic science practices so as to support police reform.

The move is in line with Section 258 of the draft constitution which calls for reforms to be introduced to various areas including the justice system, politics, national administration, education and the economy.

Mr Charnchao said the new charter provision stresses the need to improve criminal investigations so as to ensure public confidence in police investigators.

The draft charter also stipulates that forensic science must be fully exploited to support investigations, he said.

Proposals relating to forensic science reform will be presented for consideration by a police reform committee which will be set up under the new constitution, Mr Charnchao said.

The Constitution Drafting Committee (CDC) is making final changes to the draft constitution and is expected to forward it to the cabinet shortly.

The cabinet has until Nov 9 to submit the final draft of the new charter for royal endorsement.

Wallop Nakbua, director of the Office of Justice Affairs under the Justice Ministry, said the meeting considered a set of guidelines for forensic science reform to support criminal proceedings.

They include improving forensic procedures involving gathering, examining evidence and using it in court trials, increasing the capabilities of forensic officials, bringing the country's forensic science up to international standard, supporting efforts to develop forensic science units, and revamping relevant rules and regulations to boost the use of forensic science in criminal investigations.

Mr Wallop also said the Royal Thai Police has been asked to review the definition of forensic science in the scope of police work.

He said Section 258 of the draft constitution emphasises the importance of forensic science as part of police reform, so it is necessary for the police force to clearly define the scope of its work in terms of forensic procedures.

In criminal investigations, the use of forensic science will not be limited to fingerprint gathering only, but will cover examination of evidence in all kinds of criminal cases as well as cases involving financial crimes and special crimes, Mr Wallop said.

He said that police reform will cover work procedures, personnel, equipment and budgets.

Mr Wallop added that police reform is an urgent issue and the Justice Ministry and the Royal Thai Police will meet again late next month to follow up on the progress of the matter.

Mr Wallop also said that the forensic work carried out by the Institute of Forensic Medicine under the Royal Thai Police does not duplicate that of the Central Institute of Forensic Science (CIFS) under the Justice Ministry.

While police are responsible for handling forensic procedures in criminal cases, the CIFS focuses on management and works to ensure forensic science practices in the country meet international standards, Mr Wallop said.