http://www.news.lk/news/sri-lanka/item/14817-north-and-south-is-treated-equally-for-education-education-minister
42
4
Resources allocated for the education of the country would be distributed equally for North and East and in the event North was not looked after properly in the past we would rectify those issues and ensure that they are treated equally, said Minister of Education Akila Wiraj Kariyawasam.

He said that there would be a huge revolutionary change in education sector within next two-three-years.

Under the “Nearest School – Best School”initiative, Rs.6,200 million have been allocated for the schools in North, which could be considered as the highest amount that had been allocated for North so far and the Eastern Province will also be provided the same.

Minister made these remarks yesterday addressing the opening of the “Senehasaka Thotupala”, the Elephant Pass Railway station, which was constructed with the financial assistance provided by the students, teachers, and Ministry of Education. The ministry spent Rs.22 million to the project including the students’ and teachers’ contribution. School children from around the country for two weeks set aside Rs.2 per day from the money given for their use by their parents and donated it to build the railway station while each teacher donated Rs.10.

Before the opening of the station at the auspicious time, two special trains carrying around 500 students and teaches from North and South arrived at the “Sehehasaka Thotupala” from Anuradhapura and Jaffna. It symbolized the connecting of future generation of the North and South for the social reconciliation, unity, love, and affection not only among children but adults too.

The Minister said that yesterday he had a sudden visit to Kilinochchi Central College and he could see the lack of the building facilities in the school. Therefore, he pledged to provide a three-storied building to the school as soon as possible. As well, a RO Plant will also be established in the school to address the drinking water issue.

Further speaking on the ongoing reconciliation initiative in the country, the minister said that support of each and every one should be obtained for the reconciliation program, which has become a big example for South Asia.

Finally, the minister said that today under the new government the floor has been opened for Sri Lanka to go ahead as Sri Lankans without any division. As the powerful world states such as USA, Europe, EU, India, and China are extending their support towards us, we should utilize it properly as this opportunity would never return.

Governor of Northern Province Reginald Cooray, Deputy Minister of Transport and Civil Aviation Ashok Abeysinghe, State Minister of Women and Child Affairs Vijayakala Maheshwaran, Education Minister of NPC T. Kurukkularaja also participated.





