http://dailytimes.com.pk/pakistan/18-Aug-16/pm-nawaz-vows-to-stimulate-un-into-focusing-on-kashmir-issue
40
4
ISLAMABAD: Foreign Office’s spokesperson Nafees Zakaria, during his weekly news briefing in Islamabad today stated that Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif would lead Pakistan's delegation to the UN General Assembly next month, highlighting Kashmir issue.

He says “Prime Minister strongly pleaded the cause of Kashmir during General Assembly session last year and he would raise the issue again”

He further adds that the “UN Secretary General and most of the UN members have already been informed about the precarious situation in occupied Kashmir”.

The spokesperson further urged UN and international community to take a firm stance against Indian violence in Kashmir since the issue has been lingering above Security Council’s agenda for six decades.

He expressed serious concerns for blatant violations of human rights being committed by Indian forces in Occupied Kashmir for over 40 days.

Statistics reveal that over 80 Kashmiris have been martyred, over 100 have lost their eye-sight due to pellet guns fire and thousands others injured by Indian forces. He said the international community and human rights organisations should call upon India to stop use of brute force in Occupied Kashmir.

To a question the spokesman said “Pakistan has invited India for dialogue on Kashmir in view of grave situation in Occupied Kashmir and for the sake of regional peace.”

When his attention was drawn to Indian Prime Minister's intrusive remarks on Balochistan, the Foreign Office spokesperson said these are violations of the UN Charter. He referred to the statements of Advisor on Foreign Affairs and the Special Assistant Foreign Affairs who pointed out that this is reflective of Indian state’s involvement in sponsoring and financing terrorism in Balochistan and his remarks amount to crossing the red-lines.

He said by mentioning Balochistan, the Indian Prime Minister has tried to deflect attention from what is happening in Occupied Kashmir.

Regarding India’s perception of CPEC, the spokesman said that both China and Pakistan have repeatedly assured that the project is aimed at economic development of not only two countries but the entire region. He termed India’s concerns regarding CPEC “absurd” and beyond comprehension.

To another question, he said Pakistan has invited all SAARC member countries for the forthcoming SAARC Finance Ministers' conference in Islamabad. He said confirmation from India is awaited.

About Syrian conflict, he said Pakistan's position is based on neutrality, impartiality and respect for Syrian independence, unity, solidarity and territorial integrity.