http://martini.heraldscotland.com/politics/14686246.Ayrshire_MP_invites_Conservative_minister_to_visit_pub_in_her_constituency/
43
4
An Ayrshire MP has challenged a Conservative minister to visit a pub in her constituency – after his predecessor failed to follow through on his offer to have a drink with regulars.

SNP MP Patricia Gibson said that she hoped the Commons leader David Lidington would make the trip Chris Grayling had not.

Local people were “very” keen to discuss his government's controversial policy to restrict the voting rights of Scottish MPs, she said.

Last year Mr Grayling wagered that locals in Ayrshire would side with him and not Ms Gibson over English Votes for English Laws (EVEL).

He told the MP for North Ayrshire and Arran: "I am prepared to bet that if you and I went and had a drink in your constituency with a group of your constituents and set out for them what these proposals actually entail in the context of enhanced devolution I think they would agree with me rather than you."

At the time Ms Gibson told him that she would “gladly” take him up on his offer.

But despite repeated invitations Mr Grayling, an arch-Brexiteer promoted to Transport Secretary by Theresa May last month, never made the trip.

Now Ms Gibson is hoping that his replacement, former Europe minister Mr Lidington, will visit the area in his place.

She said: “The former Leader of the House offered to come to my constituency, North Ayrshire & Arran, to discuss what he saw as the merits of English Votes for English Laws, but failed to follow up that offer, despite my invitations.

“I am keen to extend the same invitation to his successor.

“ I know that many of my constituents are very interested in hearing more about EVEL.

“I will be extending this opportunity to Mr Lidington, to allow him to engage in a discussion with my constituents as to the merits of this constitutional change, when Parliament reconvenes in September. I sincerely hope that he is able to accept.”

Ms Gibson said that she planned to raise the issue at Business Questions in the House when the Commons returns next month.

Scottish, Welsh and Northern Irish politicians have complained that EVEL has created "second class MPs".

The policy prompted accusations of betrayal when it was announced by David Cameron within hours of the independence referendum result in 2014.

SNP politicians claimed that voters had been duped, with no mention of EVEL in the then Prime Minister's ‘Vow’ to Scots just days before the vote.

Labour and Liberal Democrat politicians also protested against the policy, which they said would create two tiers of MP and imperil the Union.

But the Conservatives insisted that the move was needed to reassure English voters amid greater devolution for Scotland, something that was included in the ‘Vow’.

The changes sought to address the 'West Lothian question', in which Scottish MPs at Westminster could vote on matters such as health or education that affect England, but English MPs cannot vote on similar issues in Scotland.

The Conservative Government has pledged to carry out a review of EVEL over the next few months.

Ms Gibson said she had yet to decide which pub in her constituency to visit with Mr Lidington, if he takes her up on her offer.

Last year she asked constituents for their suggestions of where she should take Mr Grayling.

A spokesman for Mr Lidington said: “The Leader takes seriously the views of all Members from across the UK and will respond to the MP once the invitation is received."