http://www.dailynews.com/general-news/20160817/la-county-pushes-gov-brown-for-homeless-emergency-as-utter-squalor-persists
40
4
With two weeks left in the state legislative session, county officials from across the Golden State continued Wednesday to press Gov. Jerry Brown to declare homelessness a state of emergency in California.

During a brief web conference sponsored by Los Angeles Supervisor Mark Ridley-Thomas, members of San Francisco’s Board of Supervisors, and others discussed the benefits and challenges of such a declaration, including relaxing some regulations that would help to establish more emergency shelters.

About 115,000 people are homeless statewide, said DeAnn Baker, deputy executive director for legislative affairs for the California State Association of Counties.

Baker said 21 percent of the nation’s homeless are in California.

Homelessness continued to increase across Los Angeles County this year by 5.7 percent, with 46,874 people sleeping on sidewalks, in washes, tents or their cars, according to results of a count conducted by the Los Angeles Homeless Services Authority.

“In the greater Los Angeles region, we are significantly challenged,” Ridley-Thomas said. “Just a few steps away from Downtown’s cranes and gleaming towers, we have human beings living in utter squalor, living in unspeakable living conditions. Shouldn’t a resident of Los Angeles County have a right to safe housing, mental health services, and a way to make a sustainable living?”

Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors adopted 47 strategies and allocated $100 million to help the homeless. But revenue needs to continue, Ridley-Thomas said.

In mid-June, the board adopted a resolution urging Brown to declare a state of emergency in California.

The California Assembly passed a resolution earlier this summer asking Brown to declare a statewide homelessness emergency, but Brown declined. Last month, state Sen. Isadore Hall, D-Compton, introduced an almost identical resolution, but the senate committee on transportation and housing has yet to discuss the bill.

More than 25,000 Los Angeles County residents also have signed an online petition, asking the governor to change his mind.

In a statement from Brown’s office, spokeswoman Deborah Hoffman said the governor is committed to addressing and preventing homelessness and approved a recent budget that includes $3.6 billon in state and federal funding for affordable housing and homeless programs.

“We recognize the importance of addressing homelessness in our cities and will continue to support local governments, which remain best positioned to tackle challenges like this and tailor solutions to the needs of their communities,” Hoffman said. “A gubernatorial declaration is not appropriate.”

Advertisement

Meanwhile, San Francisco has the second largest homeless population in the state with 7,000 people living on the streets.

“We need help clearly and we need to have a collaborate plan all over the state,” San Francisco Board Supervisor London Breed said. “Homelessness has been worse now than in my entire life.”

County officials also heard from Scott Morishige, homeless coordinator for Hawaii, where Gov. David Y. Ige issued an emergency proclamation in his state. The declaration eased state housing regulations. For example, an empty warehouse that likely wouldn’t have passed some permit laws was used for emergency shelter, Morishige said.

Ridley-Thomas pointed out that in the 1980s, a state of emergency was declared when the Mediterranean, then the Mexican fruitfly, invaded California.

“If you can have a state of emergency for fruit flies, I don’t know how you can avoid a state of emergency for homeless people,” he said.