http://www.msn.com/en-nz/entertainment/celebrity/an-aussie-model-pointed-out-everything-thats-wrong-with-the-victorias-secret-runway-show/ar-BBwXjDB
10
1
An Australian model has revealed what it takes to make it onto one of the world’s most coveted runway shows and it’s truly saddening.

Speaking to The Daily Telegraph ahead of her appearance on this year’s Victoria’s Secret show, 24-year-old Bridget Malcolm admitted that a lot is required from those wishing to be considered worthy of a place on the lingerie brand’s iconic runway show.

“I’m deep in it right now,” Malcolm said, explaining, “it’s a lot of twice-daily workouts, a lot of water, a lot of sleep and cooking all my own food so eating a lot of clean veggies and protein shakes.”

The Perth native also told Observer that she followed a similar routine ahead of last year's show.



"When Victoria’s Secret was on, I was training seven days a week," she said. "Sometimes I was leaving here (New York's Aerospace gym) at 8 at night and then I have a training at 8 in the morning."

© Jamie McCarthy/Getty Images Model Bridget Malcolm walks the runway during the 2015 Victoria's Secret Fashion Show in New York City. Considered to be one of the most anticipated runway events of the year, Victoria's Secret unashamedly spend millions of dollars to produce a show unlike any other.

It's loud, garish, completely over the top and televised to boot.



But while participating models are encouraged to bring their unique personality to the playful catwalk, there's one thing they all share in common. The way they look.

They are statuesque tall, remarkably slim and toned to within a millimetre of their life.

And while no one is saying that's not sexy (it absolutely can be!) showcasing just one near-impossible ideal is narrow at best and seriously harmful at worst.

© Michael Loccisano/Getty Images for Victoria's Secret Model Bridget Malcolm attends the 2015 Victoria's Secret Fashion After Party in New York City. And noticeably absent from the runway is reality.



Curves, big butts, shapely thighs, plus sizes and cellulite are clearly not welcome. Malcolm's comments only confirm that. The problem is, though, those physical attributes are also sexy and are claimed by the majority of women.

And if a company is going to present an annual collection of what they deem to be the most elite group of modern-day sex symbols, surely some spectrum diversity is required.

To be clear, this is not about skinny shaming or passing judgement on the weight or health of a model.



It's about a global brand presenting a narrowly defined and near-impossible view of what is sexy to a giant global audience.

Having a company tell women around the world - millions of whom struggling with eating disorders and self-loathing on a daily basis - that you have to be near starving but buff enough to disguise it if you want to be considered truly sexy is as damaging as it is deranged.

But even more so, it's seriously outdated and out of fashion.