http://www.independent.ie/irish-news/news/toddler-died-when-heavy-horse-box-fell-on-him-in-front-of-grandmother-35091697.html
16
1
A PLEA was issued for extreme vigilance on Irish farms after an inquest returned a verdict of accidental death for a 23 month old boy who died after a heavy horse box divider fell onto him.

Toddler died when heavy horse box fell on him in front of grandmother

A PLEA was issued for extreme vigilance on Irish farms after an inquest returned a verdict of accidental death for a 23 month old boy who died after a heavy horse box divider fell onto him.

A PLEA was issued for extreme vigilance on Irish farms after an inquest returned a verdict of accidental death for a 23 month old boy who died after a heavy horse box divider fell onto him.

Toddler died when heavy horse box fell on him in front of grandmother

Cork Coroner Philip Comyn described as “a terrible tragedy” the death of Ben Regan on a west Cork farm last year just six days before his second birthday.

The toddler suffered multiple fractures to his skull and a traumatic brain injury after a heavy metal horse box divider, which had been resting against the wall of a farm hen house, toppled over and fell onto him. The little boy was with his grandmother, Emily Nolan, on May 23 2015 and the duo were going to feed and then collect eggs from hens.

Ben lived with his mother and father, Roy and Debbie Regan, and his younger brother, Eddie, on a property in Derryleary which operated as Schull Equestrian Centre. Adjacent to the centre was a 26 acre farm owned by Ben’s grandparents where cattle, horses and hens were kept.

On May 23, Ben went with his mother and little brother to visit his grandmother, Emily. As it was a fine day, Debbie decided to stroll back to her home with her younger son in a buggy.

Ben went with his grandmother, Emily, to check her hens. His grandmother sobbed as she said the hen house door was stiff so she “gave it a tug” to open it.

Ben was standing beside her. However, a heavy steel horse box divider was lying against the wall and it somehow toppled over.

Ben was struck and suffered catastrophic head injuries. “(It) came crashing down on top of Ben. I caught him in my arms and ran to the house,” she wept.

“I saw Roy – I called to Roy. I said a heavy door had fallen on Ben and to call 999.” “He wasn’t on the ground for any time.”

Members of the family gathered to help and two local doctors raced to the scene. The toddler was already unconscious. A decision was made to air-lift him to Cork University Hospital (CUH) with the Shannon-based Irish Coast Guard helicopter which landed in a field opposite the family homes.

Sadly, Ben was pronounced dead shortly after admission. Assistant State Pathologist Dr Margaret Bolster said the toddler would have been immediately rendered unconscious such were the nature of his injuries. He had suffered multiple fractures to his skull and a traumatic brain injury.

She said the injuries were consistent with a heavy weight falling on the child’s head. A full Health & Safety Authority (HSA) inspection was carried out on the farm and a file was submitted to the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP). HSA inspector David Barry said there was “no evidence that anyone was in any way negligent.”

The DPP directed that no further action be taken. Ben’s father, Roy, was not allowed pursue a number of health and safety questions he raised as Mr Comyn said it was not the appropriate forum. The jury returned a unanimous verdict of accident death.

However, Ben’s father asked the coroner to remove the phrase “horse box divider” from his verdict. He asked that the phrase “scrap metal” be used instead. Mr Comyn said this was not possible.

Mr Regan indicated that, if the phrase remained, “I will be taking this up with a higher court.” Mr Regan then left the inquest without comment. Mr Comyn extended his sympathies to the family and their extended relatives for what he described as “terrible tragedy.”

“It is very difficult in circumstances like these. It is a tragedy to see someone so young to die in these circumstances.” “It reinforces the need for extreme vigilance on farms at all times,” he said.

Online Editors