http://www.thedailystar.net/city/turn-grief-strength-1276198
46
4
People need to transform their shocks into strength for a stronger movement to save the Sundarbans, said leaders of the National Committee to Protect Oil, Gas, Mineral Resources, Power and Ports yesterday in Dinajpur.

If there were no anti-coalmine movements in Phulbari upazila, then the Rampal and Banshkhali projects would be a reality by now, they added.

They were speaking at a rally at Nimtolamor in Phulbari town, marking the 10th anniversary of “Phulbari Day”, to pay tributes to the three persons killed and some 70 others injured on this day in 2006 when law enforcements opened fire on protests against open-pit coal mining.

Prof Anu Muhammad addressed the rally as the chief guest, where the speakers announced a tougher agitation including hartals for complete implementation of the six-point agreement, which included expulsion of Asia Energy and ban of open pit mining in Bangladesh.

BNP-led four party alliances signed the agreement on August 30, 2006, while Sheikh Hasina at a public meeting in Phulbari on September 4 the same year saluted the Phulbari people for their anti-coalmine movement, he said, adding, but her government has not implemented it.

“Every year we observe the black day to remind the government to implement our demands. Phulbari, Rampal and Banshkhali are now their targets to implement such projects damaging the environment,” he said.

Prof Anu said some political parties support the protest movement of the national committee for their political gain.

Prof BD Barkatullah, an energy expert, said many countries are closing such power plants for its high environmental pollution. Power can also be produced through solar, wind and river currents, he said.

Saiful Islam Jewel, president of Phulbari union of the national committee, announced tougher agitation programmes if their demands were not met by September 30. He also called for a half-day hartal in Phulbari on December 21.

Rabindranath Soren, president of Jatiya Adivasi Parishad, Golam Mortuza Manik, mayor of Phulbari municipality, and Tipu Biswas, also spoke.

Meanwhile, the national committee's Narayanganj unit held a meeting at Narayanganj Shaheed Minar yesterday morning in remembrance of the day, a Narayanganj correspondent reports.