http://www.dailynews.lk/?q=2016/08/27/political/91592
40
4
His was the voice of the down trodden -President Sirisena

Former Minister late M K A D S Gunawardena was the 'Voice of ordinary people,' said President Maithripala Sirisena.

He was speaking at the Vote of Condolence on former Lands Minister late M K A D S Gunawardena in Parliament yesterday. Parliament sources said it was the first time a President spoke at a Vote of Condolence in the history of Sri Lanka's Parliament.

Previously, former President Mahinda Rajapaksa had attended Parliament sittings during the Vote of Condolence on former Minister Jeyaraj Fernandopulle, but had not spoken during the condolence motion.

President Sirisena walked into the Chamber around 2pm when Minister Dr Rajitha Senaratne was speaking on the condolence motion. After Senaratne, the President joined in the motion and spoke for about 15 minutes.

“Late Gunawardena spoke much about the problems of the ordinary people, especially the Sinhala people in the East.

As he was a former policeman, he also spoke about the immense hardships and problems faced by policemen of lower ranks. He never wore slippers and continued to wear a blue satakaya even after he came to Parliament from the National List of the UNF.

Together with Dr Rajitha Senaratne, Arjuna Ranatunga, Duminda Dissanayake., etc. he was an immense strength to me when we walked out of the Government,” the President recalled.

The President also said late Minister Gunawardena was always in the forefront of the people’s struggles, such as protest marches, hunger strikes and satyagrahas. “He was always against fraud, corruption and irregularity. He fought for a just society and freedom and democracy. He had a genuine concern on the rights and privileges of the ordinary people. He was a long standing friend of mine,” he said.

He worked hard for a revolutionary change in 2015 Presidential election - PM

The expectations of late Minister M K A D S Gunawardena to reopen the Kantalai Sugar Factory, develop Trincomalee and grant outright ownership of lands to the people would be accomplished by the Government, Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe said.

The Prime Minister made this comment while participating in the Vote of Condolence on former Lands Minister late M K A D S Gunawardena in Parliament yesterday.

The Prime Minister said agreements to reopen Kantalai Sugar Factory were signed about two weeks ago, adding that plans are being made for the Trincomalee development project.

“Late Minister Gunawardena worked hard to carry forward the idea of SLFP restructuring. He joined hands with us to make a revolutionary change in the country during the 2015 Presidential Election. He had many worried over the conduct of the previous Government and spoke to me on several occasions concerning them. He stood by Common Candidate Maithripala Sirisena and gave strength to him,” he said.

He was a fearless speaker

Minister Nimal Siripala de Silva speaking on behalf of the SLFP, said late Gunawardena was an SLFPer who spoke out fearlessly at the SLFP Central Committee and Executive Committee meetings.

Second fall of a Good Governance Worrier

Minister Dr Rajitha Senaratna, while recalling how determinedly the late Minister Gunawardena walked out of the then Government in 2014, said the demise of Gunawardena was the second fall of a good governance warrior after Ven. Sobitha thera. He also recalled how resolutely former Minister Gunawardena mobilized the people for a ‘change.’

He walked out of the ruling party fearlessly

Opposition Leader R. Sampanthan said late Minister Gunawardena walked out of the then ruling party taking many risks, adding that it was a decision driven by principles. “There was no guarantee that the Common Candidate would win. Yet he fearlessly walked out as he was aware that the country was moving in the wrong direction and that the people were treated unjustly,” he said.

Govt to discuss pension adjustment

The Government would discuss on a pension adjustment of those who retired before 2016 in order to remove anomalies, Public Administration and Management Minister Ranjith Maddumabandara said in Parliament yesterday.

He was responding to a question by Chief Opposition Whip and JVP Leader Anura Kumara Dissanayake under Standing Order 23 (2).

The minister admitting that a pension anomaly had risen for those who retired before 2016, due to the increase of public servant’s salaries with effect from January 1, 2016, said the government would have to take a policy decision about making a pension adjustment.

“Such adjustments have been made in the past and the latest example was the adjustment made in 2015, to remove anomalies of those who retired before 2006,” he said.

MP Dissanayake pointed out that pensioners who retired within the period January 1 to December 31, 2015, had faced an injustice as the new salary structure proposed in 2015 came into effect only from January 1, 2016.

The MP pointed out as of two circulars issued in November and December 2014, the salary increment was to be effective from January 1, 2015. “However, in another circular issued on February 25, 2016, it had stated the salary increment would be effective from January 1, 2016. The Government paid an interim allowance of Rs 10,000 and 20 percent allowance in 2015. It had not been added to the pension of those who retied within the year 2015. Therefore they have faced a pension anomaly ranging between Rs 30,000 and Rs 75,000,” the MP said.

He helped build Good Governance - Kiriella

Late Lands Minister M. K. A. D. S. Gunawardena was one of those who contributed immensely to win Common candidate Maithripala Sirisena at the last Presidential Election and march towards good governance, said High Ways and Higher Education Minister Lakshman Kiriella.

He made this observation yesterday, moving the condolence motion on late Minister Gunawardena in Parliament yesterday.

Minister Kiriella said MKADS Gunawardena was born on March 06, 1947 and initiated his studies at the Doranagoda Primary School and later attended Raddoluwa Pannaloka Vidyalaya and Weerambuwa Government School. He joined the public service in 1966, joining the Land Commissioner's Department and his first service station was the Trincomalee Kachcheri.

“He married Malani Menike Rajaguru and were the parents of two children Nalin Milroy and Nelka. Later, he joined the Police Service as a constable in 1968 and was promoted Sub Inspector and served as OIC of Nochchiyagama, Kilinochchiya and Polonnaruwa Police Stations,” Minister Kiriella said. “Later when the late Gunawardena resigned from the Police Service in 1989, he was was appointed as the SLFP Organiser of Seruvila. He was elected to Parliament the same year and in 2000 and in 2001 at the General Elections respectively.”

He also said that late Minister Gunawardena had served 14 years as a Parliamentarian representing the people of Trincomalee. He moved that the condolence of the House of Parliament should be sent to the family members of late Minister MKADS Gunawardena.

Land, housing facilities for landless families in welfare camps

Prison Reforms, Rehabilitation, Resettlement and Hindu Religious Affairs Minister S. M. Swaminadan told Parliament yesterday, that there were 31 Welfare Camps situated in the seven Divisional Secretariats of Jaffna District and 936 families consisting 3,260 members are living in these Welfare Camps.

He was responding to a question raised by Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (JVP) MP Bimal Ratnayake.

Minister Swaminadan said that around 682 families out of 936 families did not own lands or houses and measures are being taken to provide them with land with housing facilities to those landless families in welfare camps.

He further said lands owned by 254 families out of the 936, who are living in Welfare Camps, had been occupied by State forces and these lands not released yet.

“The Ministry allocates funds annually to provide sanitation, electricity, drinking water and garbage cleaning facilities to welfare camps provided through Divisional Secretariats. Rs. 3,798,867 had been allocated in 2016 to provide drinking water, sanitation and electricity facilities to Welfare Camps,” the minister said.

He said that provisions of dry ration to these families in Welfare Camps was stopped from 2011. A Cabinet Paper was submitted on 10.01.2016 by this Ministry for the provision of dry rations and approval obtained. But, instructions received from the Treasury that recurrent funds could only be utilized for the provision of dry rations only.

Dry rations were not provided because of the shortage of the Ministry Recurrent Funds. However, some selected families were given livelihood assistance under the Ministry of Livelihood Support Programme after considering their plight. Most of the families have turned to fishing and labour work to eke out their livelihood.

“If there are any other facilities that they need, they should write to the Ministry and then only we can look in to the matter,” he said.

“If welfare camps continued till next year, funds would definitely be allocated to provide dry rations. But we are trying to get rid of all welfare camps as soon as possible,” he added.