http://nation.com.pk/islamabad/27-Aug-2016/mnas-for-fast-work-on-journalist-protection-bill
42
4
Islamabad-The National Assembly Standing Committee on Information, Broadcasting and National Heritage has asked the information ministry to start speedy work on “Journalist Protection Bill.

”

The committee meeting was held at the Parliament House yesterday under the chairmanship of committee Chairman MNA Muhammad Aslam Bodla.



The officials of information ministry told the committee that the work on the Journalist Protection Bill is under progress and it would be tabled in cabinet meeting till October 15.



The committee condemned the death of media workers in Quetta blast and attack on media houses in Karachi.

The committee also passed a resolution against attack on media houses and also asked the security institutions to provide proper security to media houses across the board.



The officials of information ministry briefed the committee that Information Minister Senator Pervaiz Rashid would visit Quetta to give Rs 2.

05 million to heirs of each martyred journalist and Rs.

05 million to every injured journalist.

They said that the ministry has taken all steps to provide foolproof security to media houses and the information minister has also written a letter to Chief Minister Sindh Syed Murad Ali Shah in this regard.



The ministry’s officials assured the committee that the consultation has been done on right to information bill and it would also be tabled in National Assembly soon.



They said that Pervaiz Rashid also said on Wednesday last that the government would soon table Right to Information Bill in the National Assembly.



The committee members also discussed the ban on coverage of different cases in Election Commission and said the ECP ban on coverage is illegal.

The committee also sought a detailed report from information ministry in this regard.



The committee also heard the views of senior media representatives of CPNE, APNS and media associations.

They requested the committee to ask the government to launch the media safety bill and announce insurance for journalists.

They also emphasised the committee to constitute a committee of members of National Assembly and Senate which will monitor the government promises made with journalist community.

Senior journalists demanded the government to appoint a focal person who will play role for the rights of journalists.



The meeting was attended by MNAs Malik Shakir Bashir Awan, Muhammad Tallal Chaudhry, Waseem Akhtar Shaikh, Tahir Iqbal Ch, Ghulam Bibi Bharwana, Parveen Masood Bhatti, Marriyum Aurangzeb, and Malik Muhammad Aamir Dogar, director general of ministry of information, broadcasting and national heritage, representatives from CPNE, APNS and RIUJ, and other senior officers of concerned departments.

