http://newsday.co.tt/politics/0,232440.html
43
4
A d v e r t i s e m e n t

Mayor Valentine out

By Andre Bagoo Saturday, August 27 2016

PORT-OF-SPAIN Mayor Keron Valentine will not be returning for a second term after he was rejected by the PNM’s local government election screening committee on Thursday night.

This means after the next local government election there will likely be a new mayor for the nation’s capital - the third mayor within the space of a few months.



Former Mayor Raymond Tim Kee resigned after controversial, victim-shaming remarks made in the wake of the murder of female Japanese pannist Asami Nagakiya this Carnival.



On Thursday, the PNM screening committee chaired by PNM political leader Dr Keith Rowley, met at Balisier House from around 5 pm to 11 pm. Going into the screening, Valentine had been asked if he would seek to return as Mayor. “I am supposed to,” he told Newsday on Thursday afternoon. However, hours later, he was out.



“He was screened in the presence of the executive of Northern PoS and after the screening they decided not to go with him,” said PNM general secretary Ashton Ford. “We don’t give out reasons of the screening committee. We just make decisions.” Asked if there was still a chance for Valentine if the executive does not find a suitable replacement, Ford said, “No. At this point in time, no.” He later said, “It is on hold.” Another screening meeting was due to take place yesterday in relation to the Couva/Tabaquite/ Talparo Regional Corporation and the Penal/Debe Regional Corporation. That screening was due to be held at the PNM’s South Regional Office, Navet Road, San Fernando. The Northern PoS executive will have two weeks to bring forth other candidates.



Several other screening exercises remain outstanding in relation to Point Fortin, Couva/ Tabaquite/Talparo, Princes Town and Mayaro, Ford said.



Contacted yesterday, former Mayor Tim Kee ruled out a return to the PoS hotseat. “No way.



Are you crazy?” he told Newsday in a brief interview. “Absolutely no way.” Valentine - who has recently been seeking to reform vending in the capital as well as tackle the problem of street dwellers - did not answer calls.







