http://www.4-traders.com/news/Officials-inaccurate-financial-disclosures-are-leaving-New-Mexico-voters-in-the-dark--23108387/
15
1
Sept. 25 --State Rep. Nora Espinoza , the Republican candidate for secretary of state, was known during legislative sessions for passing out salsa made by her company.

Yet, until February 2016 , Espinoza never disclosed the income she drew from Nana's Salsa LLC , for which she is listed in corporation records as the organizer. Espinoza's campaign website also says she's been "managing partner of a food supply company from 2011-1015 [sic]."

"The income from that organization did not reach the required threshold during the time the forms were filed," Espinoza said in an email. "It is currently dormant."

Espinoza, who has represented parts of Chaves and Lincoln counties as a legislator for almost 10 years, did not disclose any sources of income in annual financial statements that she filed with the Secretary of State's Office from 2011 to 2016. Instead, she wrote "N/A," for not applicable, on questions that asked her to list her employer, sources of income of $5,000 or more and business interests in New Mexico of $10,000 or more.

Yet Espinoza's financial disclosure form filed in February, after she declared her candidacy for secretary of state, contained three sources of income that she did not report just three weeks earlier when she submitted her financial statement as a state representative.

Espinoza's report is but one example of how inaccurate or incomplete financial disclosure statements leave voters and residents without a clear picture of the overall income or business interests of state officials.

Information contained in -- or omitted from -- public officials' finance statements has been at the heart of recent political scandals in the state. The Secretary of State's Office that Espinoza hopes to lead is responsible for maintaining the disclosure reports filed each January by judges, state lawmakers and Cabinet secretaries. Yet the office does little to make sure the statements are truthful or complete.

For instance, Maggie Toulouse Oliver , the Democratic candidate for secretary of state, filed a financial disclosure statement for her job as the Bernalillo County clerk that is six years old and contains outdated information.

And Espinoza's February financial disclosure contained other information that was absent from her January report, namely Social Security income for her husband and the fact that he has a license with the state Office of the Superintendent of Insurance .

In her latest financial disclosure form, Espinoza also listed her husband as earning at least $5,000 from United Benefits Inc. That information wasn't in her separate January report filed as a lawmaker. A review of financial statements turned up other discrepancies between the disclosures Espinoza made as a state representative and the most recent accounting she submitted in declaring her candidacy for secretary of state.

As a lawmaker, Espinoza routinely reported that her husband, Amado "Sonny" Espinoza III, worked for New York Life Insurance in Roswell . But income Espinoza's husband drew from United Benefits Inc. went unreported in her disclosures as a lawmaker from 2011 to 2016. Amado Espinoza is listed as the president of the company, and Nora Espinoza is listed as its secretary and treasurer in state records of corporations.

"Not listing my role in that company was an oversight on my part," Espinoza said.

United Benefits Inc. brokers insurance products, according to Espinoza's filing with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority , a private organization that regulates certain brokers. But it's unclear what type of products United Benefits handles.

The Secretary of State's Office reacts to complaints about gaps or misleading information in candidates' financial statements, but it does not independently review these reports, even through random audits.

"If our office receives a written complaint regarding the contents of a financial disclosure statement, our office will initiate a review examination of the financial disclosure and complaint to determine whether the Financial Disclosure Act has been violated," Ken Ortiz , spokesman for the office, said in an email.

Moreover, in 2012 the Secretary of State's Office under Republican Dianna Duran made it more difficult for the public to access financial disclosure reports of top officials. It simply stopped posting them on its website. Now members of the public must request the forms from the office and potentially pay copying fees or photograph them in person.

Duran resigned as secretary of state last year and then pleaded guilty to six criminal charges, including embezzlement of campaign donations.

Ortiz said removing the finance statements of officeholders and high-ranking government employees from the Secretary of State's website was to help protect them.

"The reason for this decision was due to safety [and] security concerns from statewide elected officials, such as judges and members of the Adult Parole Board, that their residence address and/or name of spouse and their address was publicly available," Ortiz said.

At least one other state executive that Ortiz did not mention objected to her financial disclosure report being posted online.

On April 23, 2012 , then- Human Services Department Secretary Sidonie Squier sent an email to Erin Thompson , who worked in Gov. Susana Martinez's office. The subject line was "Financial Disclosure Forms."

"I'm one of the folks that doesn't want my personal info made public," Squier wrote. "What is it that we do to get it off the web? I'm willing to use my work address and phone if that's an option."

Asked about the message, Michael Lonergan , a spokesman for Martinez, said in an email that "one of our female cabinet secretaries was being harassed by members of the public because her personal contact information -- including where she lived -- was on the form."

Lonergan said Martinez "dramatically expanded the number of appointees required to file financial disclosure statements to more than 300 exempt employees and to those serving on more than 200 boards and commissions -- well beyond what's required by law."

But the state doesn't scrutinize the reports, even though part-time legislators in New Mexico are not paid a base salary and often make money from industries, nonprofit organizations and other governments.

Colorado has a similar system. Its Secretary of State's Office does not audit disclosure statements, spokeswoman Lynn Bartels said in an email, but it investigates citizens' complaints and imposes a $50 -per-day penalty for each day a statement is late.

In Texas , the state Ethics Commission tracks financial disclosures, said Ian Steusloff , general counsel for the commission.

Like the New Mexico Secretary of State's Office, the commission conducts random audits of campaign finance disclosure statements, Steusloff said. But, as in New Mexico , the Texas commission does not audit personal financial disclosures. Steusloff said the commission would like to conduct such audits, but it's impractical. "It's just a matter of resources," he said.

The Arizona secretary of state does not have the legal authority or resources to audit the accuracy of financial disclosures, said Matt Roberts , a spokesman for the office. But, he said, the office posts the statements online, though the names of officeholders' children and the addresses of judges are redacted. Such transparency allows for political opponents to flag inaccuracies in the reports.

"We leave that for the political arena and opposition to police -- or I guess to take a look at -- those filings," Roberts said.

Espinoza's opponent for secretary of state, Toulouse Oliver, has been the Bernalillo County clerk since 2007. Toulouse Oliver's campaign platform for secretary of state says she would support posting financial disclosure forms on that office's website.

Yet that's not her practice as the Bernalillo County clerk. Her office's website contains no disclosures for Toulouse Oliver or other officials.

The latest financial disclosure form Toulouse Oliver has on file with the clerk's office is from 2010. It contains an address for her personal residence that's different from the address she lists on her 2016 candidate disclosure.

Joey Keefe , spokesman for the Bernalillo County Clerk's Office, said Toulouse Oliver's 2010 disclosure is the most recent one on file. He said Bernalillo County only requires officials to file new financial disclosures if there are any changes in pertinent information.

On her 2016 financial disclosure form filed as a candidate for secretary of state, the only income source Toulouse Oliver lists is her $65,000 annual salary as the Bernalillo County clerk.

With qualifications and exceptions, both candidates for secretary of state say the financial disclosure statements of state officials could be again posted on the office's website.

Espinoza said in an email that "the Legislature should take action to make sure the people's will is clear and unambiguous." If a law is approved requiring such reports to be posted on the secretary of state's website, Espinoza said, she would follow it and immediately post the disclosures online.

Toulouse Oliver said she supports putting the financial disclosures back on the secretary of state's website with certain items redacted to protect officials from abuse or harm. She said she would support creating an online system where citizens can track campaign spending, lobbying and financial disclosures in one place.

"My goal would be to create a system that makes this information available in a way that a person, a voter, a citizen can understand the full picture," she said.

She said if the office received a financial disclosure form that's incomplete, the office should work with the candidate to bring it into compliance.

Asked about the secretary of state's role in ensuring the accuracy of financial disclosures, Espinoza said: "It appears the secretary of state is to respond to written complaints" sent to the office.

"Absent that legislative action, an administrative officer should not, on her own, begin to conduct audits," Espinoza said. "That would require the administrative officer to legislate provisions into the existing law that are not currently found there."

But New Mexico's financial disclosure law states: "The secretary of state may conduct thorough examinations of statements and initiate investigations to determine whether the Financial Disclosure Act has been violated."

The law also says that any person who "knowingly and willfully" violates any of the provisions of the Financial Disclosure Act is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of no more than $1,000 , a year imprisonment or both.

Punishment is rare, but complaints of key omissions on finance reports of two state officials occurred recently, and one led to criminal charges.

A judge recently ruled that former state Sen. Phil Griego , D- San Jose , should stand trial on nine counts of misusing his position as a lawmaker to profit from a real estate deal in Santa Fe . Included in the state attorney general's charges against Griego is one count of filing a false financial disclosure statement.

Griego did not report the income he made for brokering the sale of a state building to an inn. He has pleaded not guilty.

In the other case, Democrats recently filed a complaint with the Secretary of State's Office against state Rep. Sarah Maestas Barnes , R- Albuquerque , for failing to disclose her husband's interest in a company that leases office space to a state agency for $91,000 a year.

Maestas Barnes said she was not aware of her husband's interest in the company and said she amended her disclosure form before Democrats filed the complaint.

Ortiz, spokesman for the office, said Friday that no action had been taken on the complaint, but the secretary of state could make a decision early this week.

Justin Horwath can be reached at 505-986-3017 or jhorwath@sfnewmexican.com.

___

(c)2016 The Santa Fe New Mexican (Santa Fe, N.M.)

Visit The Santa Fe New Mexican (Santa Fe, N.M.) at www.santafenewmexican.com

Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.