http://nation.com.pk/lahore/27-Aug-2016/turkey-to-make-punjab-healthier
43
4
LAHORE - Punjab Chief Minister Shehbaz Sharif met Turkish Health Minister Recep Akdag in Istanbul yesterday and it was agreed to improve healthcare system in Punjab with the cooperation of Turkey.



The chief minister paid tributes to the Turk leadership and unprecedented struggle of Turk people in foiling the coup in Turkey last month.

He said that in the past tanks stopped Azans in Turkey but this time Azans blocked the way of tanks and forced them to flee.

He said that the enemy of Turkey is enemy of Pakistan and enemy of Recep Tayyip Erdogan is the enemy of Shehbaz Sharif.

Talking to Chief Minister Punjab, the Turkish Health Minister said that people of Turkey still remember the historic role played by Muslims of the subcontinent in the freedom struggle of Turkey.



He said that Pakistani leadership and government expressed complete solidarity with Turkish government and people during the coup attempt in Turkey last month and Pakistani parliament is the first parliament that condemned the coup in Turkey.



During the meeting, it was agreed that a special delegation of Turkish healthcare experts will visit Punjab next month and submit its recommendations after complete review of healthcare system in the province.

Shehbaz Sharif said that an effective healthcare system will be evolved in Punjab in the light of recommendations of Turkish health experts for providing relief to the patients in the real sense.



Meanwhile, a ceremony for the signing of a memorandum of understanding between Health Department Punjab and Turkish Health Ministry was held in the office of Turkish Health Ministry in Istanbul.

Chief Minister Punjab Shehbaz Sharif was the chief guest while Turkish Health Minister Recep Akdag was also present on the occasion.



Punjab Minister Rana Sanaullah and Prof Dr Eyup Gumus signed the MoU under which Turkish Health Ministry will extend cooperation for the uplift of healthcare system and public healthcare programme of Punjab Health Department.

Turkish Health Ministry will also share its experiences and expertise for the improvement of public health facilities in Punjab while Health Ministry of Turkey and Punjab government will promote cooperation in public health sector.



Public Health Institute of Turkey will provide technical assistance in reforms and modernization of Institute of Public Health Punjab while cooperation will also be promoted in the safe disposal of hospital waste.

Moreover, bilateral cooperation will be ensured in sterilization, disinfection and infection control in health facilities.



CM Meets tURKISH speaker

Meanwhile, Shehbaz Sharif met Turkey Grand National Assembly Speaker Ismail Kahraman in Istanbul.

Matters of mutual interest and bilateral relations were discussed in the meeting.



The chief minister said that people of Turkey have set a historic example by defending democracy during coup attempt and have proved their commitment to this system.

He said that Turk people have also endorsed the concept of rule of people through democracy.



He said that the fact that Turk people stood up to foil the coup prove that they support policies of their great leader Recep Tayyip Erdogan.

He said that Turk people saved democracy by lying down in front of tanks.

He said that with the grace of Allah and the efforts of Turk President, Prime Minister and people, democracy remained save in Turkey.



He said that Pakistani people consider Turkey as their second home while people of Turkey consider Pakistan as their second home.

He said that both Pakistan and Turkey are facing the menace of terrorism.

He said that terrorists and extremists are common enemy of the nations and collective efforts are needed to cope with them.



Speaker Grand National Assembly Ismail Kahraman said that people of Turkey are democracy-loving and have complete confidence in their leader Recep Tayyip Erdogan.

He thanked Pakistan for expressing solidarity with Turk people in foiling the conspiracy against democracy.

He said that people of Turkey and Pakistan are bound in strong relations.

