http://www.independent.com.mt/articles/2016-09-08/local-news/LNG-tanker-due-to-leave-Singapore-on-Sunday-but-September-arrival-seen-unlikely-6736163482
40
4
The Armada LNG Mediterrana, the Floating Storage Unit commissioned to supply the new Delimara Power Station with LNG, is due to leave Singapore on Sunday and it is unlikely to arrive in Malta by the end of September, according to sources within the maritime industry speaking with The Malta Independent.

This newspaper has confirmed that the tanker was still in dock in Singapore yesterday.

ADVERTISEMENT

Maritime sources also add that although the government is looking to see the tanker arrive in Malta by 29 September, it will be something of a stretch to make the deadline. The trip is estimated to take 18 to 24 days to arrive in Malta from Singapore under normal circumstances.

Much, however, will depend on weather conditions as well as security conditions at the Suez Canal, the route the tanker will be taking to reach Malta.

Maritime sources speaking with this newspaper also say that the tanker is still awaiting class society certification, a necessary requirement before setting sail, although Minister Konrad Mizzi on 23 August told this newspaper: “All tests and works have been completed and the tanker has been certified as safe and was developed according to design. Bumi Armada, the company managing it, together with Electrogas are following the sail away protocols.”

He had added, “There are clear protocols which are stipulated for when a tanker needs to travel this distance. Coordination is being carried out between the three entities so that the tanker will arrive in September.”

The 283 metre × 44.8 metre tanker, built in 1985 and classed as type Hazard A (Major), has been converted in Singapore over a 17-month period for use at the power station.

On 1 August, Prime Minister Joseph Muscat presided over the sail away ceremony of the Floating Storage Unit (FSU) in Singapore, and since then questions have continually arisen as to when, exactly, the tanker will arrive since the government’s ever-changing deadlines to have the Delimara Power Station up and running are hinged on the tanker’s arrival.

The vessel is set to become a permanent fixture in Marsaxlokk Bay when it does eventually arrive.

The conversion of the vessel was achieved in 17 months through the cooperation of the companies Bumi Armada, Electrogas Malta, and Keppel Shipyards in Singapore.

The conversion job has been lauded by experts who explained that the FSU has the highest levels of security standards and will provide a temporary, and reliable, supply of gas.

Should the tanker fail to arrive by the end of this month, the new Delimara power plant will have missed its third deadline. The first deadline was for March 2015, two years after the last general election. That deadline was later postponed to June 2016, and postponed again to September.

Although there is a narrow possibility that the tanker may arrive by the end of this month, commissioning and testing will also have to be carried out, which could last several more weeks.

Dr Mizzi had also explained last month, “Currently the works on the power station plant have been completed. The regasification unit and jetty are complete, and once the tanker arrives, the final interfaces between the three will occur. Once that is done, and the permit issued, it will start generating electricity.”