http://www.thestar.com.my/opinion/columnists/comment/2016/09/10/if-goodwill-alone-could-drive-integration/
46
4
WHEN President Rodrigo Duterte of the Philippines arrived to give his address at the Asean Business and Investment Summit (ABIS) in Vientiane last Tuesday, none of us from the Asean Business Advisory Council (Asean-BAC) was there to greet him.

We were waiting for the dialogue with Asean leaders which had fallen seriously behind schedule as the leaders overshot their various other meetings. Duterte was supposed to be with the other Asean leaders. So there should have been no problem that we were running one hour late.

However, he had slipped out and gone to give the ABIS address without our being there. (He explained later he was feeling tired at the Asean leaders meetings and had left to give the ABIS address on time).

After meeting the leaders, we rushed to the venue for ABIS, expecting a mercurial outburst from the outspoken Philippines leader. But there he was in the VIP holding room, looking calm and collected, with no threat of a verbal explosion, like he had been offering Ban Ki-Moon, President Barack Obama and others who he thought had crossed him.

Indeed, he looked somewhat chastened. Perhaps there had been some stiff diplomatic exchange of notes, especially with the United States.

A relatively slight man who belies his strong words, he kept to his middle-of-the-road script in his address on five steps Asean must take to become a global player – with absolutely no mention of the South China Sea dispute.

Duterte has embraced Asean diplomatic niceties. When the Philippines takes over the regional grouping’s chair in its 50th year in 2017, Asean looks set to be in boringly safe hands.

Already in Laos, 50th anniversary celebratory plans are being made. The leaders launched the logo for “Visit Asean@50 Golden Celebration 2017” aimed at a joint tourism effort to achieve 121 million visitors to the region in 2017, against 108 million last year.

It would be good if there had been a commitment as well to promote an Asean Asset Class in 2017 to attract investment to the region. But that’s harder, with strong national interests in the way, and is less of a carnival. So no word.

In their closed-door discussions, President Joko “Jokowi” Widodo of Indonesia emphasised two things. First, Asean must take a united stand on the South China Sea. Otherwise the superpowers will dictate what happens in the region. Second, the interest of the people must be at the core of Asean.

Myanmar Foreign Minister and State Councillor Aung San Suu Kyi – participating as an Asean leader and for the first time – noted her country’s newish involvement in the regional grouping and underlined the need for shared prosperity. Her “otherwise” is, without shared prosperity there will be regional discord and domestic problems.

President Duterte also focused on people, their prosperity, security and safety.

The takeaways are that Indonesia under Jokowi at least and at last is taking greater interest in Asean, and that benefit for the people is at its centre. The major disappointment is that there are no specifics, only total, warm and very Asean consensus.

Such goodwill is not to be under-rated. It is extremely unlikely that there will ever be an incident in Asean where the host country gets his counterpart to step out of his arriving plane other than through the main door. What happened to President Obama in Hangzhou is unthinkable in Asean.

It goes to show how, despite strenuous efforts to forge a good relationship, the absence of goodwill just beneath the surface can result in awkward and potentially damaging situations. Yet America and China were able to jointly announce their ratification of the Paris climate change agreement.

The general statements of intent and goodwill in Asean must be taken towards serious negotiation, despite different interests, to strike specific agreement on difficult matters.

Instead, the tendency in Asean is to avoid such an approach. There is a distaste of doing anything that might disturb that goodwill. At the same time, there is also an almighty fear to expose member’s state level administrative inefficiencies.

You only have to talk to some of the ministers and senior officials to detect lack of clear direction in policy thinking and implementation. So you get good, general, goodwill-generating sound bites.

The leaders talk about concern for the people’s interest. Yet they do not respond specifically to proposals to bring better healthcare standards and treatment, for instance, by removing barriers that impede them.

They do not say, yes, we all agree with that particular proposal and will instruct our various administrations to get those barriers removed, or even to establish a working group to get those barriers removed within a defined period.

The leaders seem to be more involved in playing a ceremonial role, receiving delegations and representations, making general statements without making clear decisions.

In our dialogue with Asean leaders, Asean-BAC asserted that they must provide strong leadership and give clear direction, and not just receive and hear us. They let it pass.

Singapore is one of the few Asean member states whose leader gets into specifics. As the co-ordinator of Asean-China relations, the prime minister is clear on the urgency of establishing a hotline for unplanned encounters at sea, given tensions in the South China Sea. Both the hotline and the CUES (Code on Unplanned Encounters at Sea) have been addressed at the Asean summit meeting with China earlier this week through a Protocol.

Next is the Code of Conduct which, it is to be hoped, can be finalised in the next few months. Asean should get some return from China for completely avoiding any mention of the ruling by the arbitral tribunal under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea against it.

Perhaps, after next year’s 50th anniversary celebrations, in preparation for its taking the chair in 2018, Singapore could undertake a discussion on the Asean balance sheet, a preparation of a kind of budget for the next year with some kind of a profit and loss account at the end of it.

This Asean Vision thing can only be taken so far. Masterplans and Blueprints are good documents, but abstract.

Goodwill is a great basis to be worked on, but not on a rolling basis. There needs to be emphasis on the brass tacks in Asean.

This week, at the end of the Asean summit, the handing over ceremony of the chair of Asean from Laos to the Philippines took place. Chances are Asean will go into deep hibernation until the next series of meetings starts in the Philippines next year – and then, too, most likely to plan for 50th year celebrations. Plenty of happy occasions and goodwill.

All good. But there must also be hard work and an accounting at the end of it.

Tan Sri Munir Majid, chairman of Bank Muamalat and visiting senior fellow at LSE Ideas (Centre for International Affairs, Diplomacy and Strategy), is also chairman of CIMB Asean Research Institute.