http://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi/aap-mla-amanatullah-khan-resigns-from-all-government-posts/story-7eAf718v9A9w9y6PNGMZ9M.html
43
4
Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Amanatullah Khan resigned on Saturday from all the posts he held in the Delhi government, hours before a sexual harassment case was filed against him by a ‘relative’.

The Okhla legislator, who was the Delhi Waqf Board chairman and a member of the State Haj Committee, said in his resignation letter he was being framed in false cases. His resignation came amid the controversy surrounding his arrest and the alleged Anti-Corruption Branch (ACB) raid at the Waqf board office.

Later on Saturday, an FIR alleging molestation, sexual harassment, dowry harassment and threat was registered against him and his relatives at the Jamia Nagar police station by a member of his extended family.

Maandeep Singh Randhawa, deputy commissioner of police (southeast), confirmed that the FIR was registered against Khan after they received a complaint on Friday.

Sources said Khan would be asked to join the investigation. If required, the MLA could be arrested, they said.

According to police, the complainant alleged she was being tortured and harassed for dowry, allegedly by her husband and in-laws. The woman claimed the MLA demanded sexual favours from her. She accused her husband of allegedly pressuring her to do as the MLA said.

Khan told reporters that the woman had no relations with him or his family and that she had given it in writing four years ago. “Without investigating, police are registering cases on random complaints. I am being targeted for exposing corruption,” Khan said.

The ACB had raided the Waqf office in connection with an alleged recruitment scam involving Khan.

In his resignation letter, Khan said he had run out of patience of issuing clarifications to the public, pleading his innocence over a number of allegations levelled against him and his family members.

“Some people dislike my honesty and service and false allegations are being levelled against me and my family to frame us. I want to be free from all the responsibilities given to me by the government and therefore I tender my resignation from all the posts,” Khan said.

Khan was appointed the Waqf Board chairman in March this year. Last week, he accused Delhi’s Lieutenant-Governor Najeeb Jung of witch-hunt.

Khan said the ACB was targeting him because he was fighting against politicians who had usurped Waqf property.