http://www.theguardian.com/politics/2016/sep/10/keith-vaz-second-leicestershire-police-investigation
43
4
The MP who prompted Scotland Yard to look into allegations of criminality against Keith Vaz has claimed that the politician has recently been under investigation by a second police force.

Andrew Bridgen wrote to the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, last week after claims in the Sunday Mirror that Vaz hired two male escorts and offered to pay for cocaine if it was brought to a future meeting.

Bridgen, Tory MP for North West Leicestershire, which borders Vaz’s constituency, claimed in his letter that “the report and associated video suggests a conspiracy to supply a controlled substance” and questioned whether the Labour MP had breached “misconduct in public office laws”.

In response, the Met confirmed on Friday that its special inquiry team was seeking to “assess and identify what criminal offences – if any – may have been committed”, but added that a police investigation had not yet been launched.

The exchange of sexual services for money is legal in England, and as no cocaine appears to have been bought, Vaz could not be said to have supplied it under the Misuse of Drugs Act.

Should Keith Vaz step down as home affairs committee chair? | The panel Read more

It has now emerged, however, that Bridgen also suggested in his letter that officers contact Leicestershire police. According to a copy of the letter seen by the Observer, Bridgen writes: “I also believe that Mr Vaz is or has been under investigation recently by Leicestershire police and would urge you to contact the chief constable, Simon Cole, to assess whether there is any link between any of the potential offences.” It is understood that Bridgen was interviewed by Leicestershire police last July, when he brought information to their attention regarding Vaz. A police spokesman declined to comment. Vaz did not respond to questions. However, it is understood that in December he wrote to Bridgen, who had privately asked him to stand down over an alleged police inquiry, claiming: “I know of no investigation.”

Vaz, the MP for Leicester East, stood down as chair of the home affairs select committee on Tuesday, two days after the Sunday Mirror claimed that the MP, a married father of two, paid for the male prostitutes to visit him last month at a London flat he owns. It claimed £150 was paid into the bank account of one of two men, on behalf of Vaz, by Daniel Dragusin, who is listed on his LinkedIn page as a London coordinator for the Silver Star charity, founded by Vaz.

The Observer has discovered that the executive director of Silver Star, Hanif Pathan, is a friend and former employee of Vaz, who was embroiled in the Hinduja passport affair. Vaz was investigated by the parliamentary commissioner for standards between 2000 and 2001 after it was alleged that he may have benefited from money paid by the billionaire Hinduja brothers who were trying to gain British citizenship. Pathan, who was then a director of a company that received cash from the Hindujas, was accused of being evasive to a parliamentary investigation.

Vaz was cleared of receiving illicit funds. He was suspended from parliament for seeking to frustrate the investigation by refusing to provide financial information. Pathan declined to comment.

The Observer has seen a letter from John Bercow, the Speaker, warning Bridgen it would be “inappropriate” to raise allegations against Vaz in the Commons. On Saturday, it emerged that Bercow’s 2010 general election campaign received a £2,500 donation from Pathan, although there is no suggestion of impropriety.