http://www.4-traders.com/news/Ministry-of-External-Affairs-of-Republic-of-In-Opening-Plenary-during-the-Second-India-US-Strategi--23035208/
46
4
External Affairs Minister, Smt. Sushma Swaraj:Honourable John Kerry, Secretary of State,

Ms. Penny Pritzker, Secretary of Commerce,

My colleague, Minister Nirmala Sitharaman,

Co-chairs of India-US CEO Forum, Mr. Cyrus Mistry & Mr. Dave Cote,

Distinguished delegates,

I am delighted to welcome you all to New Delhi for the second Strategic and Commercial Dialogue between India and the United States of America. I hope you have had a pleasant stay so far.

We attach high importance to this mechanism which enables us to review the entire gamut of our relationship and develop greater synergy and coherence in our engagements across the spectrum.

We began our engagement this afternoon with separate meetings between the Foreign and Commerce Ministers of the two sides. I had good discussion with Secretary Kerry covering key bilateral and regional issues. We have now convened for the Plenary Session which will be followed by parallel meetings of the Strategic and Commercial Tracks.

Our meeting takes place in the backdrop of significantly increased intensity of bilateral engagement. Since our last meeting, our Prime Minister has visited the US three times and met with President Obama several times. The June Summit has charted an ambitious agenda for bilateral relations, whose implementation is our joint task.

There has been frequent political-level interaction throughout the year. Even as we speak, our Minister of Defence is on his second visit to the United States in less than a year, making this year the second in a row that both Defence Ministers have exchanged visits in a calendar year. This is unprecedented.

The Economic and Financial Partnership Initiative at the level of Finance Ministers met earlier this year. Our Home Minister is planning to visit US shortly for the Homeland Security Dialogue.

Some of the new dialogue mechanisms that we announced at our last meeting have already met, including the High-level Consultations, Policy Planning Dialogue and the Track 1.5 Cyber Dialogue. Others, like the bilateral Oceans Dialogue, are also in the planning.

In accordance with the roadmap for the Joint Strategic Vision, we have launched a Maritime Security Dialogue. Our Trilateral with Japan has moved from dialogue into action in exciting areas of regional connectivity and HA/DR.

In view of the rapidly evolving regional and global situation, we look forward to resuming the meeting of the Trilateral with Afghanistan; consultations on Africa and on multilateral issues within this year. Recently, we successfully launched the first UN Peacekeeping Course for African partners in New Delhi. This is an apt symbol of our partnership for peace, security and development in the wider world.

Our two countries share the same democratic ethos of freedom, equality, pluralism and rule of law. India's enhanced global role is in our mutual interest. It is in this context, we look forward to continue working closely with the US to secure our membership of the Nuclear Suppliers Group and permanent membership of the UN Security Council.

We want to take our expanding defence cooperation to the next stage of co-production and co-development. For this, we need to define the benefits associated with India's designation as a 'Major Defence Partner' of the US during Prime Minister's visit in June. This would spur defence industry collaboration between India and the US and help India play the desired role as a net provider of security in the region.

We have taken some steps to strengthen our cooperation in the area of Counter-Terrorism as envisaged in the Joint Declaration issued during the last meeting of this mechanism.

There is scope to do a lot more. This would be an important element of our deliberations today. It is heartening to note that we have been able to conclude a Framework for the India-US Cyber Relationship, the first of its kind both for India and the US, with any other country.

Our leaders had worked closely together to ensure successful conclusion of the Paris Agreement. India's commitment for implementation of the Paris Agreement is firm and we are taking steps domestically to compress the timeline for our ratification of the Agreement. We hope that the next U.S. Administration will continue to support the Paris Agreement with the same seriousness and purpose as you have done, and that the goal of mobilizing US$100 billion per year from developed countries, will be met with firm support from the U.S. government.

Our partnership in clean energy has received fresh impetus through launch of several initiatives that are aimed at facilitating clean energy investments from US into India. We need to significantly strengthen our collaboration in this area on a scale that will make it viable for us to make quantum transition to renewable energy away from fossil fuel, and achieve our ambitious climate goals.

I would also urge the United States to join the International Solar Alliance as an active member, which will be critical to its success.

Our citizens are studying, living and earning their livelihood in each other's countries, like never before. More than a million of our citizens are travelling in both directions every year, many of whom, we hope, will benefit from early implementation of the U.S. Global Entry Program for Indian nationals.

The issue of totalization and recent fee hike for H1B and L1 visa has affected our people-to-people exchanges, which is a vital source of strength for our relationship. I am sure these issues will be deliberated in depth in the commercial track of our discussion. But I would urge you to find a just and non-discriminatory solution to these issues.

Science and technology cooperation has created exciting opportunities. The Joint Commission Meeting next month will allow our Ministers to discuss them in more detail. India will take part in the Arctic Science Ministerial being hosted by the White House as well as in Our Ocean Conference that you are hosting next month.

Today, Indian and American scientists are engaged in jointly funded research, from atoms to space, combining India's talent with American infrastructure, and transforming lives of millions around the world. I am happy that both sides have decided to explore scaling up of funds for the bilateral Indo-US Science & Technology Forum (IUSSTF).

We would request your support in early conclusion of Engineers and Scientists Exchange Programme (ESEP) Agreement.

Indian and American health professionals have come together to eradicate pandemics and conduct research. We would like to develop our cooperation in the area of traditional medicine.

American satellites have been successfully launched on Indian launch vehicles this summer, at a great reduction of cost. We would request for positive consideration to our request for policy measure to allow launch of commercial U.S. satellites on board Indian vessels.

As our colleagues from the two Commerce Ministries and the business community will no doubt reflect, trade and investment has continued to grow, and more opportunities are opening after the additional reforms that the Government of India took recently.

As India unveils transformative economic programmes at home --- be it Smart cities, Make in India, Digital India or renewable energy --- the potential for doing business has never looked more appealing. We see the US as an indispensible partner in achieving these goals.

And this is why we need strategic direction and enhanced oversight on our economic and commercial engagement: to make sure aspirations and interests of our businesses get high-level attention; to guarantee that our commercial relations do not remain transactional; and to foster better appreciation for the strategic priorities of our economic policies.

It is with that vision that I hope that you will treat the issue of India's membership of the APEC Forum positively. This has as much strategic significance as it has commercial potential.

Our leaders will see each other again in a few days from now, in China and in Laos. My colleagues and I look forward to productive discussion this afternoon to review the wide canvass of our relations and present our assessment to our leaders.

US Secretary of State, Mr. John Kerry: Thank you for an extremely generous welcome, thank you for your comprehensive review. Thank you to India for not only hosting us here today, but thank you for the tremendous cooperation since the last dialogue. We have been building steady progress and we are delighted to be here.

Secretary Pritzker and Minister Seetharaman, it's a pleasure to be with both of you today. There is such a synergy between our sectors today, I have often said that economic policy is foreign policy and foreign policy is economic policy in today's world.

We are joined at the end in this endeavor and we really appreciate the joint efforts of our teams. I want to extend a warm welcome to all of the delegations here and say thank you to every member of each delegation for all the hard work that has been done. And I also want to thank Mr. Cyrus Mistry the Chairman of Tata Group and also the CEO of Honeywell Mr. Dave Cote, a good friend of mine.

We are delighted with the private sector leadership and the private sector contribution to the dialogue that we will have here.

I am personally much honored to be back in Delhi to participate in the Second Strategic & Commercial Dialogue between our countries. It couldn't have come at a more important moment.

As we begin this dialogue I hope everybody here will take pride in all that we have accomplished in recent years and also obviously commit to all that we need to accomplish still as we seek to support one-another's growth, our vitality and particularly in today's world our security, going forward.

Our countries have deepened our cooperation on defense, counter-terrorism and cyber security. Our armies and our navies hold joint exercises that keep expanding in size and scope and that now includes thousands of troops every single year.

We look forward to finalizing a cyber-framework that will help us all to be able to recognize and to protect against new and evolving threats to global security. I think everybody here will agree that the pace at which the technology is moving, while it presents us with enormous gains and great positive changes in quality of life, length of life, cures to diseases, all forms of productivity in business and other things, it also presents us with challenges in terms of security and particularly in terms of cyber.

Our economic and our commercial ties as Secretary Pritzker and Minister Seetharaman will highlight, those also have become stronger, we will leave it to them to describe what is happening in those sectors.

I think everybody would agree though in both sectors i.e. security and economics, we have room to be able to further grow and to expand our two-way trade, our investments, but also to solve security problems in doing that. I am speaking specifically about energy sector where we have enormous opportunities.

One of the reasons that we all are here with a sense of duty, I assume is that India is going to be hosting the Global Entrepreneurship Summit in 2017 and that's an exciting opportunity for even more progress.

Our collaboration in battling climate change has really been significant. I thank you Sushma, I think I spoke to you earlier about this and I have met Minister Goyal, we are very grateful for India's joining the world and particularly offering leadership that made a huge difference in Paris.

Overcoming decades of differences, our governments were among the nearly 200 people that came together there in Paris last December, to finalize the most ambitious global climate agreement ever reached and India in this region understands, as well as any part of the world, what the consequences of their actions are. So I hope we will work together now to bring that agreement into force soon and to ensure that the commitments made under it are implemented.

In addition we are both focused on preserving the health and sustainability of our maritime resources, as you referred to it Sushma a moment ago, we appreciate very much India's participation in the Our Oceans Conference which will take place on 15 - 16 September in Washington.

We are also working to bring new technologies and financing to help India meet its ambitious renewable energy targets. And today with Minister Goyal we arrived at an understanding with our envoy, Amos Hochstein, exactly how we are going to be able to proceed forward to make it work on some of the financing that is essential to meeting India's ambitious goal to meeting its demand, which is a natural objective.

We also hope to see our civil-nuclear cooperation take shape in the form of new reactors that will deliver reliable electricity to tens of millions of Indian households.

More broadly, our efforts in science, in space, in education, in medicine are bringing needed solutions to meet the domestic and global challenges.

When India and United States join forces, the beneficial impacts are felt not only in our own country, but believe me they are felt by many other countries, not just in the region, but they are felt in the lives of millions of peoples overseas.

This is especially true in the field of public-health where our researchers and our specialists are leading fight against outbreaks of Zika virus, of Dengue and tuberculosis.

That is just to get things started, there is a lot more for us to review, to discuss, to hammer out over the course of the afternoon, evening and tomorrow, but the fact is that the plate between our two nations is as full now as it has ever been.

I know that every single person here is ready to dig in and do the work necessary to meet our objectives.

This would be the last time that I have the privilege of helping to lead this dialogue. As you all know, we are about to have an election in the US, but I am very very confident that we will continue to strengthen what President Obama has called 'the Defining Partnership of the 21st Century'.

After all United States and India are both global leaders, we are the two strongest and largest democracies in the world, we have enormous connections between our values and we live in an era when strong and principled and visionary leadership is absolutely essential. It makes all the difference and we are proud that India is a partner with us in offering that leadership. Thank you Sushma.

External Affairs Minister, Smt. Sushma Swaraj: Thank you Secretary Kerry. May I now invite my colleague, Minister of State Commerce & Industry, Smt. Nirmala Seetharaman to give her opening remarks.

State Minister for Commerce & Industry, Smt. Nirmala Seetharaman:Secretary of State Mr. John Kerry, my senior colleague External Affairs Minister Sushma Ji, Secretary of Commerce Penny Pritzker, the two Co-Chairs of the CEO Forum Dave Cote and Cyrus Mistry, Secretary of Government of India, Department of Commerce Ms. Teaotia and ladies and gentlemen.

It gives me great pleasure indeed, yet again to welcome this delegation which has come for the Second Strategic and Commercial Dialogue that we are hosting in New Delhi.

In an otherwise sluggish scenario for global trade, the trade between India and United States has gathered strength and our bilateral trade of more than 105 billion US Dollars is a testimony to this fact.

We all know that this figure is much below the potential as the trade complementarity between our two large democracies is very high. It has been the endeavor of both the countries to use the institutional dialogues like the Trade Policy Forum and the Strategic & Commercial Dialogue to address the issues being faced by trade and look at broader economic policy initiatives that we need to have and I must mention that such engagements have been highly productive from the point of view of both the countries.

These mechanisms have provided appropriate platforms for sustained interactions between public and private sector to work together to identify newer areas of cooperation and to work around challenges and impediments to smoothen the flow of relationship.

Our leaders have agreed to a very ambitious target of taking the bilateral trade to over 500 billion US dollars and this would require both the sides to work in cooperation and resolve impediments to trade.

I would like to assure that we remain strongly committed to make India a better place to do business and to progressively liberalize our economy to facilitate greater investment.

As a part of our autonomous liberalization exercise we have made a number of changes in our FDI policy to bring more activity under the automatic route and easing conditionality for foreign investment. New sectors like defense and railways have been opened for foreign investments.

Reforms undertaken in recent months have shown positive results and FDI inflows into India have increased at a time when globally there is a decline in investment inflows. Total FDI inflow into India which was at about $ 36 billion in 2013-14 increased to $ 44.2 billion in 2014-15 and further increased, as during the year 2015-16 India received $ 55.4 billion as FDI. FDI from USA has also shown a positive trend from $ 804 million in 2013-14 to $ 4190 million in 2015-16.

Our consistent efforts, of course, have borne fruits in bringing a simplified tax regime which was shown by the way of clearing the GST bill with bipartisan support and this augurs very well for the Indian economy.

As part of our Ease of Doing Business initiative we have taken a number of strong steps which have resulted in increasing India's ranks much higher in the World Bank's Ease of Doing Business report.

The e-biz portal has helped in providing one stop shop for the investors to apply for different services. The integration of state governments on this portal has further strengthened and expanded the number of services offered through this platform.

Our decision to open commercial courts is intended not only for speedy disposal of commercial disputes, but also to reinforce investor's perception of India as a preferred investment destination.

As part of our ease of doing business initiatives, the customs authorities have introduced a single window interface for facilitating trade which allows the importers and exporters to have to file only one common declaration on the customs IceGate portal.

Our initiative in e-trade has resulted in slashing the documentation required for exporters and importers. I am pleased here to note that there has been significant progress on the recommendations of the CEO Forum as well as under four work streams namely on standards, on ease of doing business, on innovation and entrepreneurship and finally on infrastructure and smart cities.

In the last one year we have had interactions with reverse trade missions which visited from the United States and collaboration between Ministry of Finance and the US Treasury related to floating of Municipal bonds to generate additional resources.

We also say the NB6 goals such as exchange of information and best practices on cross-border trade, reforms and commercial law have provided positive inputs to facilitating ease of doing business.

There has been significant progress in trading across borders as a parameter. There has been a lot of interaction between the teams to understand and adopt best practices relating to ease of doing business and we look forward to a more robust engagement in 2017.

Under the innovation and entrepreneurship work stream, it was agreed to share best practices in promoting a culture of innovation and creation of sister innovation hubs.

In pursuit of our government policy of Minimum Government, Maximum Governance, there has been a conscious effort towards making India a global hub for innovation, for design and for development.

The Start-Up India and Digital India initiatives are expected to provide the platform for entrepreneurs to pursue their business ideas in a conducive environment.

It is worthwhile to mention here that India jumped from the rank 81 in 2015 to 66 in 2016 as per the recent Global Innovation Index report.

Global cooperation is one of the most important enablers in transforming conventional hubs into innovational hubs and India-US collaboration in strengthening innovation clusters for mutual benefit is a step in the right direction.

Both sides should identify and pick up some high growth potential hubs in the two countries and facilitate partnership in other areas of technology, design and so on.

The launch of the India-US Innovation Forum in New Delhi yesterday was a good beginning and I am confident that the exchange of ideas and best practices on an ongoing basis will help entrepreneurs of the two countries.

On the standards front, there has been substantial bilateral engagement and we expect the engagement to be strengthened further. CII is progressing with the development of standards portal in collaboration with ANSI and we expect to launch the first version in September 2016.

The engagement between the National Physical Laboratory on the Indian side and NIST on the US Side has seen some tangible developments and we are looking forward to a more robust engagement in this area too in 2017.

In addition to our bilateral engagement we are working closely with the US and other stakeholders in important international fora including the WTO and international financial institutions like the World Bank, IMF and the UN Security Council for institutional reforms and unfinished agendas.

We are negotiating some regional and mega-regional free trade agreements with our partners like the ARCEP and the India-EUPTIA. Some of our stakeholders have raised concerns regarding measures which are potential to act as barriers to the movement of natural persons and professionals.

The concerns of our government in this regard have been conveyed in the past and we could hope that specific measures like these having potential to adversely impact our trade are avoided.

We have tremendous optimism regarding the promise and growing realization of our potential for trade and investment. Ladies and Gentlemen, the onus is squarely on all of us to work together and strengthen the partnership between India and the US as this partnership will have a significant role in shaping the new global trade.

I look forward to continue the momentum of our bilateral engagement between the governments and the businesses on both the sides for ensuring positive and balanced outcome of this engagement. I wish to thank all of you, each one of you for being present this afternoon. Thank you.

External Affairs Minister, Smt. Sushma Swaraj: Thank you Nirmala. Now I request US Secretary of Commerce Ms. Penny Pritzker to give her opening remarks.

US Secretary of Commerce, Ms. Penny Pritzker: Along with my colleague Secretary Kerry and with Minister Seetharaman, I would also like to extend my thanks to the private sector Co-Chairs the US India CEO Forum, Honeywell CEO Dave Cote and Tata Chairman Cyrus Mistry.

Before I begin, I want to congratulate the Modi government on the series of reforms that have been undertaken since our last meeting in particular on the passage of the Goods & Services Tax Bill.

This is an extraordinary accomplishment that has the potential to not only accelerate growth, but to transform the business climate here in India and once implemented, I know that it will create more opportunities not only for Indian and American firms but frankly for our economies as a whole.

During President Obama's historic visit to India for the 2015 Republic Day celebrations, he and Prime Minister Modi tasked us, as Minister Seetharaman said, with a very simple yet ambitious goal, to elevate our commercial relationship to same level as our strategic ties.

At that time we committed to increasing our trade and investment relationship fivefold to 500 billion US dollars aspiring to make it one of the largest in the world. To achieve this aim our governments have focused on making easier to do business between the United States and India.

We have been making developing India's smart cities and addressing India's infrastructure needs. We are building bridges between our innovators and entrepreneurs and we have been better aligning the US and Indian standards.

In a very short time we have seen how this dialogue can make us stronger economic partners and our challenge at this year's S&CD is to think bigger, act bolder and to continue to deliver real results.

As Prime Minister Modi said in his recent address to the United States Congress and I quote, 'Let us work together to converge shared ideals into practical cooperation.' He is truly a man of after my own heart.

In today's commercial session we will advance our practical cooperation on the four streams of work that we began last year and in addition we will undertake a new effort to join promotion of travel and tourism.

Bringing more Indians and more Americans together is good for our economies, good for our people and great for our relationship. In that spirit of partnership, this year we will also be focusing on connecting Indian and US companies looking for investment opportunities with local leaders and economic development officers in the cities and states of both of our countries.

As a former business leader I know when a company is considering where to invest, they look at more than just the business climate of a country at large. They consider the skills of the local workforce, access to the needed supply chain, quality of the regional infrastructure, proximity to the researchers and regional world class universities and so much more.

No one understands an area's strengths better than its local leaders and we believe that forging new partnerships at the state and regional level will yield great benefits for both India and American companies and our Indian and American communities and will certainly grow our bilateral trade.

In today's increasingly interconnected world, these ties between government and business have never been more important, Secretary Kerry said it so well.

All of us here today share common goal. We want to see United States and India generate sustainable prosperity and implement policies that create jobs and economic growth for our citizens, but our governments cannot do this alone.

Partnership with the private sector leaders, the people who actually build companies, who actually make investments, who actually create jobs is central to good policy making.

Both American and Indian business leaders have great insights into our economies and are helping us to prioritize our policy changes and I firmly believe that there voices are key reasons for our progress through the Strategic & Commercial Dialogue over the past year.

When we linked this dialogue with US-India CEO Forum, we asked our CEOs to be more than just leaders of their respective companies, we asked them to serve as emissaries for a deeper more strategic bilateral relationship between United States and India. In essence we asked them to be commercial diplomats.

Today as we embark on Second Strategic & Commercial Dialogue, the strategic and commercial partnership between United States and India has never been stronger.

As Minister Seetharaman highlighted in the data that she shared, today we trade more with each other, we invest more in each other and we do more business together however, we have more to do to reach the incredible potential that exists between our two countries and I look forward to building upon the trust, the openness and the honesty that we developed. Thank you all very much.