http://m.themalaymailonline.com/malaysia/article/as-deadline-nears-maiwp-yet-to-decide-on-intervener-bid-in-churchs-case
41
4
As deadline nears, Maiwp yet to decide on intervener bid in church’s case

Share this article

On December 10, 2007, Rev Datuk Jerry WA Dusing, filed a lawsuit against the home minister and government on over the seizure of Malay-language Christian educational books that contained the word ‘Allah.’ — Picture by Yusof Mat IsaKUALA LUMPUR, Oct 28 ― The Federal Territories Islamic Religious Council (Maiwp) has yet to confirm if it will appeal against a failed bid to be a party in a Sabah church's case over the word “Allah”.

Even as the one-month deadline for appeal nears, Maiwp's lawyer Mohamed Haniff Khatri Abdulla confirmed that the Islamic body has yet to decide if it will file an appeal to continue its bid to intervene in the lawsuit.

“Not yet. We have told the court we have no instructions until now,” he told Malay Mail Online when contacted yesterday, referring to the Kuala Lumpur High Court.

Yesterday, the Sabah Sidang Injil Borneo (SIB) church's lawsuit over its right to use the word “Allah” came up for case management at the Kuala Lumpur High Court.

The church's lawsuit, which was filed almost nine years ago, has not been heard in court yet. Sabah SIB however obtained leave for the lawsuit to be heard in October 2014 and it was initially fixed for hearing on August 4 last year.

The hearing of the church's lawsuit was however deferred after Maiwp applied to be an intervener or the party to the court case.

The Kuala Lumpur High Court had on February 23 allowed Maiwp to be an intervener to Sabah SIB's case, but the Court of Appeal reversed this decision last month.

On September 30, the Court of Appeal unanimously decided that Maiwp should not be allowed to intervene in Sabah SIB's case, pointing out that the Attorney-General's involvement in the lawsuit was sufficient to safeguard public interest.

Besides saying that the law under which Maiwp was created does not grant it the powers to intervene in Sabah SIB's case, the Court of Appeal also said the Islamic body has no rights over non-Muslims.

The Court of Appeal however allowed Maiwp to contribute and assist the court as 'amicus curiae' or as friend of the court.

If Maiwp wants to file for leave for appeal at the Federal Court over its bid to be intervener, it would have to do so within a month from the September 30 decision by the Court of Appeal.

The Kuala Lumpur High Court fixed November 29 as the next case management date for the Sabah SIB's lawsuit, a lawyer for the church Tan Hooi Ping told Malay Mail Online yesterday.

The High Court also exercised yesterday its discretion to convert the lawsuit from a judicial review matter to an originating summons, Tan said.

According to national news agency Bernama, the High Court also fixed four days from February 20 next year as the hearing date for the Sabah SIB case.

On December 10, 2007, the Sabah SIB church and its president, Rev Datuk Jerry WA Dusing, filed the lawsuit against the home minister and government on over the seizure of three boxes of Malay-language Christian educational books that contained the word “Allah.”

The books for Christian children that SIB imported from Indonesia were seized at the former international budget airport terminal in Sepang on August 15, 2007 while in transit. They were later returned to the Sabah church on January 25, 2008.

With the books seized from the Sabah SIB church nine years ago already returned, the church is currently seeking several declarations, including the declaration that it has the constitutional right under Article 11 of the Federal Constitution to use the Arabic word for God “Allah” in the Bahasa Malaysia and Bahasa Indonesia translations of the Christian bible, as well as in all other religious publications and materials.

The Christian Bumiputera communities in Sabah and Sarawak typically use Bahasa Malaysia in their holy scriptures and religious practices.