http://thenationonlineng.net/ooni-urges-caution-herdsmen-menace-southwest/
40
4
The Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, has called for caution and tact in tackling the menace of herdsmen unleashing terror on farmers and communities in Yoruba land.

He made the call yesterday when he visited the Ewi of Ado Ekiti, Oba Rufus Adeyemo Adejugbe, as part of activities to mark his visit to Ekiti State.

Governor Ayo Fayose, members of his cabinet, lawmakers, past and present political office holders and indigenes trooped to the Ewi’s palace to welcome the Ooni.

Fayose had tightened the noose against grazing in unauthorised places in Ekiti with the signing into law of the Prohibition of Cattle and other Ruminants Grazing Bill, which bans grazing beyond 6pm.

Oba Ogunwusi welcomed the law but noted that care should be exercised in implementing same to prevent it from degenerating into a crisis. He said Nigeria is a federation and Ekiti is part of the Nigerian federation.

The Ooni thanked the crowds that welcomed him to Aramoko, Ijero and Ado Ekiti.

Fayose expressed joy at the visit, saying it was a celebration of life, “an event that so many people will live with for a very long time”.

But he maintained that the law must take its course against herdsmen killing innocent residents and destroying their means of economic survival. He said any herdsman caught rearing cows after 6pm will be arrested and prosecuted, and his cows confiscated.

His words: “Any cow that is caught destroying somebody else’s farm will be confiscated. Any cow that is caught grazing after 6pm shall be seized. Is somebody rearing cows in the night a normal human being?

“They asked us to go back to farming and released their cows to destroy our crops. Any cattle that destroy our farms will be seized by the government.”

Fayose added: “You (Ooni) are in a good position to unite us; it is neither by accident nor by age, but by the grace of God. Nothing must happen to the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and Olu Falae.

“This is how they started with Obafemi Awolowo and Pa Michael Ajasin. That is why I insist that an action against Tinubu is an action against the Yoruba nation.

“They are encroaching, they are threatening. Nothing must happen to Tinubu, nothing must happen to Falae. This is how they killed our leaders in the past; this must not be allowed to continue.”

Oba Adejugbe expressed joy at the visit, and recalled that in 1937, Oba Adesoji Aderemi visited the Ewi; in 1980, Oba Olubuse II visited the Ewi and thanked God that in 2016, Oba Ogunwusi has visited.

The Ewi said: “I am happy because the visits are not at close intervals. I pray for long life, unity and cooperation among the Yoruba.”

He particularly lauded the Ooni for the meeting of traditional rulers which he said was a precursor to the unity among Yoruba communities of the Southwest and urged him to continue in that stead so as to sustain the growing unity among the Yoruba.