http://usa.onlinenigeria.com/news/156489-family-tell-of-their-terror-after-killer-asian-hornet-flew-into-their-kitchen.html
42
4
He hopes experts will help him identify the bug, which he is keeping in a jar

Father managed to catch the creature, which he fears is an Asian Hornet

By Richard Spillett for MailOnline

Published: 09:08 EST, 28 October 2016 | Updated: 09:14 EST, 28 October 2016

A family were left terrified when a suspected giant Asian hornet flew into their home.

Billy Rockett, 41, from Merseyside, said the two-inch wasp-like creature buzzed into his kitchen yesterday.

The father-of-three caught the bug in a coffee jar and fears it is one the breed of hornets which came to the UK this summer.

Fearsome: A father from Merseyside caught his suspected Asian hornet in his home

Billy Rockett, pictured with his son Sam, said the creature flew into his kitchen yesterday

Mr Rockett, who lives with his wife Janine and three children, said: 'I was in the kitchen and it suddenly flew through the back door.

'I thought it was a really big wasp at first. The cat took a swipe at it. I panicked and grabbed the first thing I could, a used coffee jar, to try and catch it straight away.

'The kids came running through to see what was happening. [My daughter] Anna ran straight out the front door and refused to stay in the house while it was there.

'She wasn't joking, she was crying. She's not particularly afraid of bugs, I think it was more the size of it that scared her.

'Her mum had to take her round to her gran's to stay there, but she wasn't in so they had to come back home.

'From the pictures it looks like it could be an Asian Hornet.

'I read that around 30 to 40 people in Asia die each year from their stings, and within the last year apparently five people in France have died from it too.'

The family captured the large insect in a bag and are now keeping it in their conservatory

After initially being terrified of the creature, the children now want to give the 'hornet' a name

Mr Rockett captured the creature, which has stayed alive for more than a day in a coffee jar in the family's conservatory.

An Asian hornet nest was found in a tree in Tetbury, Gloucestershire, earlier this summer. They been spotted in at least six different locations this year.

Mr Rockett is currently waiting on confirmation from experts on what the bug could be.

He said: 'Some people on social media have suggested it could be a European Hornet, which isn't poisonous, but I thought it best to report it.

'When I first caught it I was stuck with it in the jar, so I found a sealable bag and managed to slide it over the top with the jar in the bag, then quickly seal it in.

'Anna stayed out on the drive until it was sealed in the bag. She's ok now as long as it is contained and not going anywhere.

'My son Sam was quite cool with it, he loves animals. And my wife wasn't too bothered as long as it stays in the conservatory. I just want rid of it. The kids keep telling me to give it a name now but I'm saying no.'