http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3766157/Top-British-technology-firm-sold-Japanese.html
57
5
Cutting-edge British technology firm ARM Holdings is to fall into Japanese hands after shareholders approved a £24billion takeover.

In a blow for the UK tech industry, 95 per cent of investors voted in favour of the deal, which will see the microchip designer sold to the SoftBank conglomerate.

As part of the deal, the Japanese company – owned by the country’s second richest man, Masayoshi Son – has promised to double ARM’s 1,700-strong British staff and maintain its HQ in Cambridge. But critics questioned yesterday whether SoftBank would be able to honour its pledges.

Cambridge-based microchip designer ARM Holdings (pictured) is being bought by SoftBank.

Former City minister Lord Myners said the tie-up was ‘selling out our winners’, and called on the Government to ‘get a grip’ and toughen up takeover measures.

He added: ‘We have the most permissive takeover rules in the world. Our future lies with hi-tech companies and high value-added manufacturers. We are leaders, and a firm like ARM forms the centre of a cluster. Other businesses are completely built up around ARM to support it.’

Nico Macdonald, of the Research and Development Society, said: ‘Most companies that have been built in the digital sector in the last 20 years have been acquired by non-UK companies.’

He added that unless the UK finds a more imaginative way of funding research, young companies will not reach their potential, adding: ‘The UK has built itself on being a case where foreign investment is encouraged and ARM needed more investment.’

ARM Holdings designs low-power chips for 95 per cent of smartphones, as well as smart TVs, smartwatches and tablets.

Considered a major asset, it is at the forefront of the next tech boom, the so-called internet of things in which household devices will be all be connected.

A branch of Softbank, a Japanese telecommunications and Internet corporation firm

ARM founder Hermann Hauser said: ‘I regret the fact we have lost our last independent hi-tech company with a global reach. There was no reason for change. It had £1billion of cash.’

Lord Myners said investors acted rationally after being offered well above the share price, but the sale was ‘bad news’ for the British economy. SoftBank’s offer of £17 a share is 43 per cent higher than the price before the deal was announced.

He said: ‘They say the headquarters will remain in Cambridge, but the big decisions on research and development will be made in Japan. One would expect SoftBank to optimise its tax arrangements with a structure where it won’t pay UK tax.’

He also questioned SoftBank’s stability, pointing to debt of up to £90billion.