http://leadership.ng/news/547404/wike-fayose-should-own-up-to-their-gamble-on-pdp-apc
55
5
The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State on Tuesday advised Rivers State Governor, Chief Ezebunwo Nyesom Wike and his Ekiti State counterpart, Mr. Ayo Fayose to own up to their gamble on the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).

This is as the party urged Wike to stop accusing the Nigerian Police of sealing off the proposed venue of the botched national convention of the PDP, recalling that as governorship candidate, he led soldiers to forcefully take over the Adokie Amesiamaka Stadium.

APC, in a statement issued in Port Harcourt yesterday by its state publicity secretary, Senibo Chris Finebone, also advised Wike and Fayose to apologise to PDP members for imposing Senator Ali Modu Sheriff on them.

It said, “On PDP botched national convention, the APC calls on Governor Nyesom Wike to own up to the gamble he and his Man Friday, Governor Ayo Fayose pulled on their party. They should apologise to their party members for imposing Ali Modu Sheriff on them and stop blaming the APC.

“Governor Nyesom Wike should accept in good faith some of his recent experiences as the normal wheel of natural justice at play and he can do little about them. The governor should not pretend not to have heard that, in this world, what goes around comes around.”

The party reiterated that unlike what the governor told the audience at the conference, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has clearly justified why the result of the rerun election in Tai local government area of the state was accepted and announced after due investigation by the commission.

The statement reads, “The Rivers State Chapter of All Progressives Congress (APC) finds it nauseating that the Rivers State Governor, Chief Nyesom Wike, once again, threw caution to the wind and fed members of Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) and other Nigerians a dose of untruths at the opening of the NBA’s 56th Annual General Conference in Port Harcourt.

“The APC wishes to reiterate that unlike what the governor told the audience at the conference, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has clearly justified why the Tai local government area rerun election result was accepted and announced after due investigation by the commission just as the commission did for some other results that favour the PDP in other LGAs and constituencies in Rivers State.

“In some cases where the APC was dissatisfied, our candidates went to the tribunal. Good reason suggests that PDP candidates should act in line with the law and not believe they can bully anyone on the matter. We do not live in a jungle here and this is not the 16th Century.

” doesWe believe that issues surrounding the intervention of security agents during the botched PDP National Convention in Port Harcourt a week ago are for the security agencies to address but we are miffed that the governor tried to lay the blame at the doorstep of the APC.

“We recall that despite former governor Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi offering the Liberation Stadium, Elekahia to the PDP for its rally, the APC would like to remind Gov. Nyesom Wike that on the 24th of January, 2015 he (as PDP governorship candidate) led soldiers to forcefully seize the Adokie Amesimaka Stadium which the then governor, Rt. Hon. Chibuike Amaechi was battling to complete before the end of his tenure.”