http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/2016-09/27/c_135715523.htm
57
5
BOGOTA, Sept. 26 (Xinhua) -- At 5 p.m. Monday afternoon (2200 GMT), the oldest civil conflict in Latin America will be consigned to history books when Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos and FARC leader, Timoleon Jimenez, sign a peace agreement, finalized last month in Havana.

The two men will mark the historic moment at a ceremony in the port city of Cartagena, in the company of a number of world leaders and around 2,500 people.

Ahead of the moment, reactions have poured in from across the region.

Ecuadorian President Rafael Correa spoke to the press at Quito airport on Monday before leaving for the ceremony, saying that "we have been invited by President Juan Manuel Santos, for a historic moment of joy for Colombia, for Ecuador, for Latin America and the entire world."

"President Santos and Colombia know they can count on our total, unrestricted, absolute, unconditional support," he vowed.

Additionally, he said that Ecuador and Colombia have been coordinating for months to work together to face any potential problems arising during the peace process, including the disarmament of the guerrilla group.

Venezuela's President Nicolas Maduro, who will also attend, said at an event on Sunday that he would go "to Cartagena to bring the spirit of (Hugo) Chavez. I go there to bring the voice of Venezuela."

Bolivia's President Evo Morales took to Twitter to express his happiness, saying that "it is possible to make a revolution with votes, not with bullets, with the conscience of the people and not with weapons."

Chile's President Michelle Bachelet, speaking to the press upon arrival in Cartagena on Monday, highlighted the role Chile played as an accompanying country to the peace talks in Havana.

The conflict between the Colombian government and the FARC started in the 1960s as an uprising for land rights. It has left about 220,000 people dead and millions displaced.

According to Bachelet, Chile has played a very active role in the process that led to the end of the conflict in Colombia.

"We will continue to help the transition toward peace in Colombia through our new role in the search of an agreement with the National Liberation Army (ELN)," she said.

"Chile has 75 personnel, from the army and police, in the (disarmament) verification zones. Furthermore, we will act as a guarantor country in the negotiations with the ELN," continued Bachelet.

Talks between Colombia and ELN, the country's second-largest guerrilla group after the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC), began in March.

In a positive step for these negotiations, the ELN on Sunday announced it would hold a ceasefire until Oct. 2, when the Colombian people will vote on whether to approve the FARC peace deal.

ELN commander, Pablo Beltran, gave an interview with the group's media wing, Ranpal, to explain that the group would not pressure the people during the vote.

"We are not pushing or stopping the people from voting. Each one is free, which is why there will be no offensive actions by the ELN in these days...to allow the participation of the people," said Beltran.

Beltran, who is one of the negotiators in the early peace talks with the government, said the ELN is not against the peace agreement with the FARC.

"We respect the agreement, there are things we do not like, but we are not an obstacle. Making criticisms does not mean we are against it," added the rebel leader.