https://www.theguardian.com/world/2016/aug/19/thai-police-hunt-one-man-confusing-inquiry-into-bombings
50
5
Thai police say they are looking for a man from southern Thailand as part of an investigation into multiple bomb attacks that killed four people a week ago.

Deputy national police spokesman Kissana Phatanacharoen said authorities were searching for Ahama Lengha, from Narathiwat province near Thailand’s border with Malaysia.

“We have only issued one arrest warrant in relation to the bomb attacks, and that is for Ahama. It’s because it is clear that he is linked to what happened,” Kissana said in comments to journalists.

He added that Ahama had not yet been detained and police were unsure if he was still in Thailand.

Ahama is the first person to be named by police since small improvised explosive devices and firebombs were detonated last Thursday and Friday in seven provinces across Thailand’s south.

The Guardian view on Thailand: The military is in control – but for how long? | Editorial Read more

No group claimed responsibility for the attacks, which appeared aimed at hitting tourist sites including the island of Phuket and the beachside resort of Hua Hin.

The ensuing investigation has been confusing, with the government almost immediately declaring the strikes were not the work of international terrorists but not suggesting which domestic group might be responsible.

Observers increasingly point to members of an ongoing insurgency in the Malay-Muslim-majority south, a conflict that has left more than 6,000 people dead in the past 12 years.

But the Thai defence minister, Prawit Wongsuwan, said on Monday that the attacks were “definitely not an extension” of the southern insurgency. Police said they knew orders came from one individual.

The chaotic nature of the investigation mirrors the inquiry conducted after last year’s bombing in Bangkok, which killed 22 people and wounded more than 125 at a Hindu shrine.

The government issued contradictory statements in the weeks after the attack, eventually announcing it was the work of a people-smuggling network. However, no group ever claimed responsibility for the attack.

Kissana said on Friday that police were working with Malaysia to track down other suspects in relation to last week’s attacks. “We have received some answers from Malaysia that are useful and move the case forward,” he said.

Southern militants have focused strikes on the police and army presence in Thailand’s three southernmost provinces. But the latest bombs, which also left dozens wounded, including 10 Europeans, hit provinces further north.

The strikes came less than a week after the country’s military rulers, who took power in a 2014 coup, won a countrywide referendum on a constitution that entrenches their power in any future government.

The coup leader and prime minister, Prayuth Chan-ocha, said the aim of the attacks, carried out by individuals he described as “bad people”, was to create “chaos and confusion”.

The opposition was quick to deny any involvement in the bombings and accused the junta of suggesting its political foes were responsible.

Reuters contributed to this report