http://www.indiatimes.com/entertainment/bollywood/after-spreading-magic-on-the-silver-screen-nawazzudin-siddiqui-shows-his-expert-farming-skills-262358.html
50
5
Nawazuddin Siddiqui might not be your conventional Bollywood actor but he has managed to make a mark for himself. His impeccable acting abilities and screen presence has made him bag some of the meatiest roles which have not only won him several accolades but even critical acclaim.

bollywoodpapa.com

What’s more this humble man has never let all this success go to his head. Keeping his humble roots close to his heart, he has been doing a lot of charity for the farmers. Last month, the UP government even appointed Siddiqui as the brand ambassador of Samajwadi Kisan Beema Yojna, which aims at providing insurance coverage to the farmers.

Nawazuddin learnt about centre pivot irrigation technique when he attended the Cannes Film Festival, this year. Talking about what he learnt from those Frenchmen about farming, Nawazuddin Siddiqui had told media:

"Almost every kind of crop in France was being irrigated using this cost-effective and water efficient technique called centre pivot irrigation.”

After Siddiqui got to know about the idea, he was curious about it and he couldn’t wait for it to implement the same in his village. He even got a sample model fabricated and shipped to his village.

Nawazzudin Siddiqui Instagram

In an interview with Hindustan Times, he said that whenever he visits his home, he makes it a point to take out time for farming.

"I have done farming for 20 years of my life. Whenever I get time, I take it up. It's our ancestral occupation. It gives me a lot of pleasure".

He recently took to Instagram to post pictures of himself working on the farms. He can be seen ploughing mustard in the fields. Along with the pictures he wrote,

“Ploughing in my farm for Mustard, hopefully this will be irrigated by Centre Pivot System...!!!”

Ploughing in my farm for Mustard, hopefully this will be irrigated by Centre Pivot System...!!! A photo posted by Nawazuddin Siddiqui (@nawazuddin._siddiqui) on Sep 19, 2016 at 10:53pm PDT

Despite being one of nine children of a farmer from Uttar Pradesh, 42-year-old Nawazuddin graduated from his village with a degree in chemistry.

It was in 1999, that Nawazuddin made his first Bollywood appearance in Aamir Khan’s Sarfarosh after completing his training at National School Of Drama. After small cameos, Siddiqui went on to bag meatier roles in films like Gangs Of Wasseypur, Badlapur, Bajrangi Bhaijaan and Kick among others. In fact, he has even starred in lead roles in Manjhi: The Mountain Man and Freaky Ali.