http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/deepika-padukone-ranveer-singh-lovers-relationship-marriage/1/740870.html
51
5
Deepika Padukone and Ranveer Singh might not have made anything about their relationship official yet, despite dropping heavy hints about it all, but that hasn't stopped their fans from celebrating August 14 for the last four years.

Like every year, the fans of Deepika and Ranveer, who have coined the moniker 'DeepVeer' for the Bajirao Mastani stars, celebrated their fourth year of togetherness yesterday.

ALSO READ: Ranveer, Deepika and Ranbir might party together, but look who's going home with the girl!

ALSO READ: Fizool ki baatein na karein, says Ranveer Singh on engagement rumours with Deepika Padukone

PHOTOS: When Deepika Padukone kissed boyfriend Ranveer Singh at Madaari screening

To their fans, it doesn't matter whether Deepika and Ranveer themselves are celebrating their fourth anniversary or not. 'DeepVeer' fans took it upon them to remind people of their anniversary because the two actors were first spotted together in August 2012.

On Sunday, the Ram-Leela stars' fans trended '4 Years of DeepVeer' on Twitter to show their love for the couple.

"We Successfully trended 4 Years Of Deepveer @deepikapadukone @RanveerOfficial Thank You Everyone #Deepveer," tweeted Deepika Ranveer Fan Club.

"When everything matched from head to heels This will remain one of my fav 4 Years Of Deepveer," wrote one fan.

"they are Pure , Honest, shy, no fake , no mask about them when they are together 4 Years Of Deepveer (sic)," wrote another.

"4 Years of Deepveer Leela for Ram ! and Ram For leela @deepikapadukone @RanveerOfficial," tweeted another handle.

"I can switch off and just be my true self with him" - Deepika 4 Years Of Deepveer (sic)," tweeted some other fan.

For years now, ever since Deepika and Ranveer scorched the screen with their appearance together in Ram-Leela, the two actors have been nearly inseparable. Deepika and Ranveer recreated their mind-blowing chemistry in last year's Bajirao Mastani, a film for which both the actors received numerous awards.

During an awards ceremony a few months ago, Ranveer and Deepika's public display of affection had many people stop and admire the two.