http://www.dailymail.co.uk/debate/article-3873122/Finally-decision-wait-off.html
51
5
At last! After 50 years’ debate on desperately needed new airport capacity in the South East, ministers (or some of them) settle on a third Heathrow runway.

So congratulations to Theresa May on making a decision that Messrs Blair, Brown and Cameron pathetically ducked.

But don’t hold your breath. The matter is now to be put to further public consultation, delaying a parliamentary vote for yet another year.

Business and jobs are seeping away to Amsterdam, Paris and Frankfurt while we in Britain have to wait for endless judicial reviews, public inquiries and a vote in Parliament

Next will come lengthy legal challenges over planning and environmental concerns – not to mention a revolt by Tory MPs with constituencies under the flight-path.

(And what a shockingly expensive and self-indulgent gesture by Zac Goldsmith to force a by-election that will further narrow the Tories’ majority.)

Indeed, even on optimistic forecasts, it will be another decade before the first plane takes off from a new runway.

Meanwhile, the blight of uncertainty will hang over local residents – while business and jobs will go on seeping away to Amsterdam’s Schiphol, with its six runways, and Frankfurt and Paris Charles de Gaulle, with four each.

This was never going to be painless. But what sense can there be in prolonging the agony? Besides, it’s impossible to exaggerate the economic importance of Heathrow as our gateway to the world.

In the Second World War, Churchill famously ordered a rubber stamp emblazoned: ‘ACTION THIS DAY.’ Mrs May should dig it out – and put it to use.

Babies won’t wait

With more than half of babies born at night or the weekend, the onset of labour has never respected office hours.

So how disturbing it is that three-quarters of hospitals have no consultants present in maternity wards between 10pm and 8am, while almost half have none on site on Saturdays and Sundays.

Indeed, today’s chilling figures underline graphically how far we are from achieving a truly round-the-clock NHS, open seven days a week.

With consultants absent, is it any wonder that research has shown babies born out of hours are more likely to die or suffer serious complications?

Egregious: Max Mosley

Press held to ransom

In what surreal world would a State-appointed quango put press regulation in the hands of a body financed by the egregious Max Mosley – with the threat of making newspapers who refuse to join it pay the crippling legal costs of anyone who sues them, win or lose?

Yet if Culture Secretary Karen Bradley activates a pernicious clause in the law, this will be the effect of yesterday’s decision by the Press Recognition Panel (cost to taxpayers, £1million a year) to endorse Mr Mosley’s Impress – a body without a single mainstream publication as a member.

Could anyone ever have imagined this would be how 300 years of British Press freedom might end – at the mercy of the plaything of a millionaire sexual deviant, smarting from the Press exposure of his taste for German-themed S&M orgies?

Beyond parody (1): In a sublime postscript to the farce of Ed Miliband’s ‘Ed Stone’, Labour is fined £20,000 for electoral offences after failing to declare the £7,614 cost of his folly. Don’t you have to pinch yourself to recall how close this neo-Marxist numpkin came to being put in charge of the country?