http://nation.com.pk/newspaper-picks/26-Oct-2016/phasing-out-hfcs-to-cost-pakistan-billions
57
5
ISLAMABAD - Pakistan’s decision to sign the Montreal Protocol for phasing out hydro fluorocarbons (HFCs) will have an impact of billions of dollars on balance of payment annually, it is learnt yesterday.

The decision will cost Pakistan a lot and it will have a direct impact on refrigerators, air conditioners and cars consumers of the country, official sources told The Nation.

The extra $ 162 million loss estimated by the Ministry of Climate Change is inaccurate as it was taken only the automobile industry in consideration, the officials said. According to the Climate Change Ministry, about 90 percent gas is being used mainly in automobile sector which is linked with the policy of mother companies in Japan.

The official contended that HFC is being used in refrigerators, air conditioners and aviation but the climate change didn’t mention about it. Besides, the official said that Pakistan loses a huge quantity of gas due to gas leakages which also needs to be considered while making the final calculation.

Pakistan should ask for technical and financial support as the cost burden will be shifted to the consumers directly. The cost of HFC is $4 per kg while the new gas cost would be $145 per kg, the official said. There is a difference of $141 and technology cost for kits is an additional cost, the official said.

It means the consumers in Pakistan who are currently paying $4 per kg have to pay $145 for the new gas.

On its implementation the decision will abnormally increase the prices of refrigerators and air conditioners and the maintenance will also be too expensive, the official said. Some of Pakistani cars required the refilling of HFC every year and that will also cost the car owners a lot, the official added. Moreover a lot of HFC is being used in airplanes and it may also lead to increase in air fares.

“We have recommended the government to draw a deadline to 2030 or beyond because intellectual property rights will expire after 2027 and the cost of gases would decrease due to the entry of new firms in the CFC market,” the official informed. However, during the Kigali meeting, Pakistan, India and Middle Eastern countries supported 2024-2026 baselines years.

Since US Senators Kerry Lugar has earlier approached Minister of Climate Change to convince Pakistan to sign the amendments. But the decision will have a significant impact on balance of payment in the form of capital outflow of approximately three to five billion dollars, the official maintained.

It is pertinent to mention here that this month the delegates from around 200 countries met in Kigali, Rwanda, and agreed for amendments to the Montreal Protocol. Under the amendments, the parties agreed to set the dates for the phasing out of highly potent gas, hydro fluorocarbons (HFCs), used in air conditioning and refrigeration.

In view of the environmentalists, HFC is 1,000 times more potent than carbon dioxide in trapping heat within the atmosphere accelerating global temperature rise. Their average lifespan in the atmosphere is about 5 - 10 years; therefore, eliminating their use would result in immediate results.

As per the details the amendments have two separate phase-down schedules for developing countries (Article 5) and one phase down date for the developed countries (Article 2). The A2 countries have agreed to a baseline of 2011-2013 with cuts in HFCs beginning in 2019. Whereas A5 countries have agreed to two sub groups with two different baselines. A5 Group 2 includes India, Pakistan, Iran and Iraq - with a baseline of 2024-2026 and a freeze date of 2028. The remaining developing countries have favoured an early phase out with a baseline of 2020-2022 and a freeze date of 2024. The scheduled phase down of HFCs will help avoid close to 70 billion tons of CO2 emission equivalent which translates into shutting down 750 coal power plants or over half the coal power stations in China.

HFCs were introduced in the 1980s as a substitute for ozone-depleting gases but are now considered a uniquely dangerous threat to the climate Air conditioning is largest cause of HFC growth, but the gases are also used in fire suppressants, insulating foams, inhalers and data centre cooling systems.