http://www.4-traders.com/NATIONAL-BANK-OF-CANADA-1410947/news/National-Bank-of-Canada-strikes-musical-note-at-Montreal-Pride-celebrations-22913993/
51
5
Release date- 15082016 - $10,000 donated in support of the LGBT community thanks to an interactive musical activity.

On August 13, 2016 , National Bank struck a musical note at Montreal's Pride Week by inviting visitors to participate in a fun activity. The Bank set up an interactive musical installation in the heart of the Village and pledged to make a donation to Montreal Pride each time passers-by took part in the activity or shared the hashtag created for this unique occasion.

Supporting diversity through music and social media

For each time that five festival-goers stepped onto cubes in the colours of the rainbow flag, triggering electro music to play, the Bank pledged to donate $10 to Montreal Pride. The Bank also committed to donate a dollar each time the hashtag was shared on social networks. Thanks to the participation of festival-goers, National Bank donated $10,000 to Montreal Pride, the organization that coordinates the week-long celebration of Montreal's LGBT communities and supports numerous community partners throughout the year.

'An interactive activity, a call to action and a concrete demonstration of our support for diversity: the Bank's activity last weekend was all of the above and much more. In addition to its fundraising goal, this initiative was driven by heartfelt support for Montreal Pride and a firm commitment to building an ever more inclusive society,' said Yann Jodoin , Senior Vice-President - Client Strategy, Marketing and Branding at National Bank .

An ongoing commitment

National Bank partners with several organizations that fight against homophobia and plays an active role in awareness-raising efforts. The Bank has hosted the ceremony for the Laurent-McCutcheon Award for several years and is the main sponsor of the Conseil quebecois LGBT's Arc-En-Ciel gala, which recognizes the involvement of community members. National Bank is also the official presenter of the Desorientation Event, the proceeds of which go to GRIS-Montreal, an organization that fights against homophobia in schools. In 2012, to complement its various measures to promote diversity in the workplace, the Bank launched IDEO , an internal network for members of the LGBT community. For more information on National Bank's diversity practices, please visit nbc.ca.

About National Bank of Canada

With $221 billion in assets as at April 30, 2016 , National Bank of Canada , together with its subsidiaries, forms one of Canada's leading integrated financial groups. The Bank has close to 20,000 employees and is widely recognized as a top employer. The Bank's securities are listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX: NA). Follow the Bank's activities at nbc.ca or via social media such as Facebook, LinkedIn and Twitter.

Information (The telephone number provided below is for the exclusive use of journalists and other media representatives.):

Jean-Francois Lauzon

Advisor - Public Affairs

National Bank of Canada

Tel.: 514-394-6097