http://indianexpress.com/article/india/india-news-india/annapurna-range-in-india-ambassador-says-sorry-after-faux-pas-by-indian-embassy-in-poland-2980271/
51
5
A billboard showing the controversial Íncredible India’poster outside the Indian embassy in Warsaw, Poland (Photo: Rajesh Shrestha) A billboard showing the controversial Íncredible India’poster outside the Indian embassy in Warsaw, Poland (Photo: Rajesh Shrestha)

This year’s Independence Day was probably not an occasion the Indian Embassy of Poland would like to remember. That’s when it got a rude shock that a photograph posted on a billboard outside their embassy in Warsaw showcasing the ‘Incredible India’ campaign was in fact not shot in India, but in neighbouring Nepal.

It was Rajesh Shrestha, a resident of Lalitpur in Nepal, who pointed out on Facebook that the photo showing a woman in a Yoga posture facing the Annapurna Range could not have been shot in India. Precisely because the Annapurna is a mountain range located in the Himalayas in north-west Nepal, far away from the Indian border. The photo was branded with the ‘Incredible India’ logo, the marketing campaign of the country’s tourist department. Shrestha’s Facebook post quickly went viral, amassing some 700 shares within hours. Clearly, a lot of Nepalis were miffed that their geographical landmarks were being appropriated by India.

Some of the comments went thus: “It feels like a woman borrowing jewellry from neigbour to attain a party,very false pride”, “That’s incredible”, “Shame on India” and “They missed the term neighbour at the end, ” incredible Indian neighbour Nepal”.

The news got quite a lot of attention on Twitter as well.

Hello India, This pix outside your embassy in Warsaw is, um, from my hometown in NEPAL. cc: @MEAIndia/@Ajaybis pic.twitter.com/3alG6BxvWc — Anup Kaphle (@AnupKaphle) August 16, 2016

Realizing the faux-pas, the Indian embassy machinery swung into action with Ambassador Ajay Bisaria sending an apology to Shrestha on Facebook.

“Dear Rajesh: Thanks for pointing out the error. We’ve removed the poster. It was an honest mistake, an image provided by an outsourced company. Our apologies to our friends in Nepal!,” the message read.

While the apology is certainly acceptable, the bigger question is how such photographs, even though outsourced to private companies, don’t get screened by government officials before they are printed and plastered across bill-boards. It is certainly embarrassing that material, aimed to show how beautiful India is, ends up shaming the government and the people. And this is not the first time it has happened.

Last week, the Ministry of Culture had to delete a video it had uploaded on social media for Independence Day celebrations in which an image of a fighter jet was used that was jointly developed by China and Pakistan. The jet was purportedly shown carrying the Indian tricolour. When people objected to the image, the video was soon taken down.

© The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd