http://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2016/08/17/national/politics-diplomacy/japan-china-south-korea-foreign-ministers-meet-tokyo-next-week/
51
5
The foreign ministers of Japan, China and South Korea will meet next week in Tokyo, Japanese government sources said Wednesday.

The meeting aims to pave the way for a leaders’ meeting next month.

The three countries are looking to hold the ministerial meeting on Aug. 23 and 24, the first such gathering to be held in Japan in more than five years.

Citing unnamed diplomatic sources, the Tokyo Shimbun said Wednesday the Japan Coast Guard’s rescue of Chinese fishermen last week may have encouraged China to send Foreign Minister Wang Yi to Japan for the meeting. The coast guard plucked Chinese crew members from the ocean after their fishing boat collided with a freighter and sank near the Senkaku Islands.

The sources said the talks could serve as a springboard for a meeting between Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and Chinese President Xi Jinping on the sidelines of a Group of 20 summit next month in Hangzhou, China. Abe and Xi have held just two one-to-one meetings since both took power in 2012.

Wang’s visit to Japan will be the first by a Chinese foreign minister under Xi’s leadership.

The ministers are expected to discuss their coordination in addressing North Korea’s prohibited nuclear and ballistic missile development programs, the sources said.

They are also likely to commit to strengthening their cooperation in economic areas, including negotiations toward the conclusion of a trilateral free trade agreement.

Foreign Minister Fumio Kishida plans to hold separate bilateral talks with Wang and South Korean Foreign Minister Yun Byung-se, the sources said.

In the meeting with Wang, Kishida is likely to encourage Beijing to exercise restraint following the repeated sailing of Chinese government vessels into waters near the Japan-controlled, China-claimed Senkaku Islands in the East China Sea.

With Yun, he is expected to convey Tokyo’s desire to further mend ties following an agreement in December last year to help women forced to work in brothels for the Imperial Japanese military before and during World War II.

South Korea launched a foundation last month to support survivors. Japan is providing the cash.

Last month, Kishida called for trilateral ministerial talks to be held in Japan before the end of the year.