http://www.msn.com/en-nz/travel/news/israel-splashes-out-in-campaign-to-attract-tourists/ar-BBwAJXc
51
5
© Reuters Children play in the Red Sea at the resort city of Eilat, Israel August 19, 2011. REUTERS/Ronen Zvulun/File Photo - RTX2HQ1M

Israel is trying to revive its tourism industry by subsidising new budget hotels, paying airlines €60 for every passenger they fly into Eilat, and building a showpiece airport to receive them north of the Red Sea resort.

Tourist visits to Israel have slumped since 2014, when its war against the militant group Hamas in the Gaza Strip and the subsequent wave of violence in Jerusalem caused many foreigners to cancel trips. During that time, Tel Aviv’s Ben Gurion airport, Israel’s main gateway to the world, was shut for two days after a rocket fired from Gaza landed about a mile away.

Israel’s government is now trying to bring foreign visitors back and change the way they think about the country, in part by broadening its target market beyond religious pilgrims who come for its holy sites, to those seeking sand and sun. An advertising spot, launched in June in several European cities, shows a couple running along Jerusalem’s Old City wall, then a Tel Aviv beach, under the slogan “Two Cities, One Break”.

“Unfortunately, over the years tourism wasn’t something that Israel invested in or put its efforts in, unlike what we did in the high-tech industry,” Yariv Levin, Israel’s tourism minister, told the Financial Times this week. “For most people in the world, Israel is not a tourist site that is even crossing their minds.”

Israel hosted 2.8m tourists last year, down 4 per cent on 2014, according to economy ministry figures.

Israel is more expensive than rival Mediterranean tourist destinations, and does not have enough low-priced rooms, government and tourism officials concede. Mr Levin said that in an effort to build more, it is giving “huge grants” to developers who construct hotels with three stars or fewer, equivalent to 33 per cent of the overall cost.

In Eilat last week, hotels were full, with local tourists — including Palestinians celebrating the Muslim Eid al-Adha holiday — packing the town’s open-air promenades and malls. Eilat is faring better than neighbouring Aqaba in Jordan or Taba, Egypt, which have seen an exodus of foreign visitors worried about Islamist terrorist attacks.

However, foreign visitors account for fewer than 10 per cent of visitors to Eilat, and tourist numbers fall sharply in the winter. Occupancy at Eilat hotels last winter was about 62 per cent, according to Yossi Chen, general manager of the city’s Municipal Tourism Association. The city is hoping for 70 per cent this year with the help of new direct flights.

Last year Israel began offering foreign carriers flying to Eilat a €45 per passenger subsidy, topped up by another €15 per visitor offered by the local hotels association. Ryanair, the budget airline, commenced flights from Krakow, Kaunas and Budapest, and from November will begin a service from Bratislava.

International arrivals to Eilat land at Ovda, an Israeli military airport that also accommodates civilian aircraft. The new Ramon airport, being built in the desert north of the city, is due to open in 2017, with a 34,000 square meter terminal and stands for 29 aircraft.

Aviation authorities are touting the 1.65bn shekel project both as a gateway for foreign tourists and an alternative to Ben Gurion airport, which when foggy requires planes to divert abroad.

“This airport can be an alternative to Ben Gurion, even in times of peace,” says Hanan Moscovitz, an Israeli airport authority official.

However, some in the city are sceptical of the notion that “if you build it, they will come”. While Eilat’s visitor numbers compare favourably with Aqaba’s and Taba’s, they say, it is often outcompeted by rival European and other countries.

“If a family wants to go abroad for a week or two-week holiday in Greece or Capri, it’s a lot less expensive to do it there than to come do it here,” concedes Red Fisher, general manager of Eilat’s Manta Diving Resort.

Rotem Noam, chief executive of Erev Be’Eilat, which runs two local newspapers and a tourism guide, says: “Eilat is expensive relative to Greece, Cyprus and other destinations . . . We’re aware of that, and we are struggling”.

While Eilat’s hotels’ services and facilities are often better than in Greece or Cyprus, Mr Noam asserts, and prices fall in low season, they are expensive in peak months.

He blames Eilat’s steep costs on high wages, the costs of fitting and certifying hotels to meet kosher requirements, and regulatory issues — including a requirement that all swimming pools have lifeguards.

Mr Noam also asserts that the amount of money being invested in the Ramon airport is “not justified” when tourist numbers are modest, and most who come to Eilat are locals.

“I predict it’s going to be deserted,” he says. “You don’t build an airport and expect people to come. You have to build hotels and rooms and attractions, and after that you build your airport.”