http://www.dailymail.co.uk/debate/article-3806010/Triumphant-Jeremy-Corbyn-s-peace-talk-just-cheap-writes-BLACK-DOG.html
50
5
Triumphant Jeremy Corbyn’s talk about ending the Labour mud-slinging after his victory is just that – talk.

The real Jeremy was caught by an undercover film crew mocking his failed leadership rival Owen Smith’s call for peace negotiations with Islamic State terrorists.

‘Where’s the Isis office for the negotiations? Have they got one on Bond Street or something?’ smirked saintly Corbyn.

Triumphant Jeremy Corbyn’s talk about ending the Labour mud-slinging after his victory is just that – talk

The real Jeremy was caught by an undercover film crew mocking his failed leadership rival Owen Smith’s call for peace negotiations with Islamic State terrorists

Labour activists are taking bets on whether Keith Vaz will shrug off his recent rent-boy scandal and roll up as the star guest at tonight’s ‘diversity nite’, as billed on the conference agenda.

Seasoned party watchers predict the Labour MP will be there.

‘He had the front to turn up at last week’s NEC meeting and got a round of applause when he walked in,’ said one.

‘He must think all is forgiven.’

Corbyn critic and karaoke fan Michael Dugher is skipping part of tomorrow’s conference sessions to deliver a personal tribute to his beloved Beatles at the world-famous Cavern Club in Liverpool.

The MP will belt out 30 minutes of Fab Four favourites on request, with party moderates suggesting Help! and Corbynistas predictably preferring Back In The USSR. Anyone for Come Together…?

George’s raspberry for May’s Rasputin

George Osborne has the ‘Brummie Rasputin’ Nick Timothy in his sights as he plots his return to power.

The former Chancellor mocks Timothy, Theresa May’s Chief of Staff, as ‘ridiculous’ for claiming that Chinese investment in the Hinkley Point nuclear power plant was a national security risk.

And as for Timothy’s beloved grammar school project, George says dismissively: ‘We’ll see where all this ends up.’

George Osborne has the ‘Brummie Rasputin’ Nick Timothy (pictured) in his sights as he plots his return to power

Even out of power, the former Chancellor is still enjoying the high life.

Shortly after being sacked by Mrs May, Osborne was being flown VIP-style in a helicopter to a ball thrown by Ripon Conservatives.

The £8,000 bill was picked up by property firm Countrywide Developments.

They at least must still think a comeback is on the cards…

Bojo’s safety curtain

No 10’s frantic efforts to gag Boris Johnson on Brexit extend to physically restraining him when required.

On the flight out with Theresa May to last week’s UN summit in New York, the curtain separating Ministers from press parted, to reveal a smiling Foreign Secretary seemingly set on sharing his thoughts with reporters.

An alert No 10 aide spotted the danger and yanked him back behind the screen. Sadly for the Bojo restraint unit, he has since slipped the leash and predicted Mrs May will fire the Brexit starting gun early next year.

No 10’s frantic efforts to gag Boris Johnson on Brexit extend to physically restraining him when required

Viewers of the late-night BBC1 politics show This Week were horrified to see sacked Tory Arts Minister Ed Vaizey appear with shirt unbuttoned to reveal his hairy chest, then with it done up and then all open again medallion-man style.