http://www.dailynews.com/general-news/20161008/fraud-investigation-leads-to-arrest-of-woodland-hills-mans
57
5
WOODLAND HILLS >> Seven people have been found guilty of participating in a large-scale international identity theft scheme that laundered more than $14 million in fraudulently obtained tax refunds by using bogus Republic of Armenia passports, federal prosecutors said Saturday.

Special agents with the IRS Criminal Investigation this week posted a forfeiture notice on a Woodland Hills residence that prosecutors are seeking to forfeit based on allegations that it was bought with illegally obtained money, according to Thom Mrozek of the U.S. Attorney’s Office.

The United States Attorney’s Office filed a civil asset forfeiture lawsuit last month against three Van Nuys properties and alleged criminal forfeiture against the Woodland Hills property, which cumulatively have more than $1 million in equity, Mzorek said.

And in a third development stemming from the investigation, a federal grand jury in Santa Ana last month returned an indictment charging an eleventh defendant with mortgage fraud, bank fraud and aggravated identity theft, he said.

While not directly related to the stolen identity refund fraud case, Woodland Hills resident Aramais Airapetian, 24, was charged as a result of the same investigation with using fraudulent documents, including fake pay stubs and altered bank statements, to obtain a mortgage from loanDepot.com

With the indictment of Airapetian, 11 defendants now have been charged as a result of the investigation, he said. Seven defendants have pleaded guilty, one is a fugitive and three -- including Airapetian -- are pending trial.

“Stolen identity refund fraud schemes have become a significant, nationwide problem that victimize the United States government, individuals who are identity theft victims and all taxpayers who end up paying for these fraudulent schemes,” said U.S. Attorney Eileen Decker.

“These defendants created a complex, international scheme in an effort to conceal their fraud, but it was not sufficient to shield them from discovery and prosecution,” Decker said.