http://en.farsnews.com/newstext.aspx?nn=13950717000924
51
5
World

Analyst: US, S. Arabia to Foment More Tensions in Syria in Next 2 Months

TEHRAN (FNA)- A prominent Syrian analyst underlined that the US and Saudi Arabia will increase attempts to intensify tensions and insecurity in Syria in the next 2 months.

"The war in Syria has entered a new phase which can be a prelude to an unprecedented crisis, specially when the current conditions in the region and the world are full of tensions," Abdollah Ali told FNA on Saturday.

He said that one of the most important indications of intensified crisis in Syria is the failure of the US and Russia's agreements, adding that the most dangerous possibility is the US direct attack against Syria.

"The situation in Syria, specially in the next two months, will be more critical and the US will welcome any adventurism by Saudi Arabia, specially increased financial and arms support for the terrorist groups," Ali said.

Saudi Arabia is widely believed to be providing support for militant groups operating against legitimate governments in Syria and Iraq as well as for terrorists conducting sporadic attacks in Europe and the US.

Most groups radicalizing people in the Middle East as well as the West are believed to be directly affiliated with Wahhabism. It is the main ideological feature of terrorist groups, particularly ISIL, which declare people of other faiths and beliefs as “infidels” and, based on “decrees” from Saudi “clerics,” rule that they should be killed.

In relevant remarks last month, Noam Chomsky, a renowned American political activist and philosopher, accused the United States and its Western allies of knowing about but choosing to turn a blind eye to Saudi Arabia’s support for terrorist groups.

Chomsky told Lebanese Al-Mayadeen television channel that Riyadh is engaged in spreading extremist outfits, something the US and the West are prepared to ignore.

He said the US, Britain, and France are well aware that Saudi Arabia is using money to increase its leverage in the region, apparently referring to financial support by the Riyadh regime for militant groups operating in the Middle East.