http://news2.onlinenigeria.com/news/general/531247-alele-williams-4-others-honoured-as-olu-of-warri-gives-out-first-chieftaincy-titles.html
51
5
Home | News | General | Alele-Williams, 4 others honoured as Olu of Warri gives out first chieftaincy titles

By Egufe Yafugborhi

NIGERIA’s first female Vice Chancellor and Professor of Mathematics, Grace Alele-Williams along with four others were yesterday honoured by the Olu of Warri, His Majesty, Ogiame Ikenwole in his first conferment of chieftaincy titles.

The Warri monarch at his palace said more titles would be conferred on other deserving recipients as part of the activities marking the first anniversary of his coronation. His words: “Before, people have been coming to me and talking eagerly of chieftaincy titles. I told them I was just settling down and titles will come at the right time. I appointed a search committee to identify deserving recipients.

“What you are witnessing today (yesterday) is the result of the work that committee has done. From now till the end of November, every weekend, more titles will be conferred on deserving recipients.

“The conferment of titles in this kingdom is strictly on merit. I made it clear from the very beginning that only credible people who have the interest and unity of Itsekiri at heart will be bestowed with chieftaincy titles. That is what we have demonstrated and we will stick to that.” The Itsekiri monarch warned his subjects against using the social media in manners capable of bringing disrepute to the kingdom.

He also called on those giving the impression of division among Itsekiri youth leaders to desist or face a dire penalty.

He said: “Anyone indulging in these acts or insulting the kingdom must refrain. By the end of November, anyone who still chooses to disobey the throne probably because you occupy one political office or have some big money will have his or herself to blame.

“Disregard hearsay and baseless rumours concerning the kingdom. From time to time, I will be addressing the people on issues concerning Itsekiri. Communities with court cases or infighting must withdraw those cases, close ranks and forge ahead. My prayer is to allow only ceaseless celebration and joy shall reign in my time in Itsekiri land. I made it clear that I am here to build bridges of unity. Let what happens to one of us be celebrated by us all.

‘’Let us tell the world that we are one Delta State. Let us prove outsiders wrong about bad impressions being created about us. I am happy, Ijaws, Urhobos, and others have come here to celebrate with us. Let’s keep this spirit.

Apart from Alele-Williams, who was conferred with the Utienyin Iwere, others are Eyitimi Arthur Diden (Ideofene of Warri) a.k.a Agboburukun Jakan; Pa Akoma Dimeyin (Omokun of Warri) a.k.a Agbewu; Mercy Olowu ( Utukpa Iwere of Warri) a.k.a Eriegwa and Omolubi Nenewumi (Omatamudieyin of Warri) a.k.a Egindegereyugba.

Rate this article 0

CLICK HERE TO READ MORE FROM: General