http://www.themalaymailonline.com/malaysia/article/powerboat-races-to-attract-enthusiasts-to-bintulu
51
5
Powerboat races to attract enthusiasts to Bintulu

Sarawak Deputy Chief Minister Tan Sri James Masing launched the powerboat racing event in Bintulu, held in conjunction with the Malaysia Day celebrations. — Picture by Sulok Tawie BINTULU, Sept 16 ― Powerboat racing is set to attract enthusiasts from the region to Bintulu, a town built by oil and gas.

The first-ever race in the town, held in conjunction with Malaysia Day celebrations yesterday and today, saw residents and foreigners gathering at the RC Commercial Wharf for a glimpse of the boats.

The event, launched by Sarawak Deputy Chief Minister Tan Sri James Masing, has been the talk of the town for weeks with many expecting more of such races to be held here.

Masing said he was glad Sarawakian youths with skills to reinvent and modify boats had an outlet to channel their talents.

“Powerboat racing creates people who are skillful in mechanical engineering. It is my hope the powerboat racers can form a club so their talents do not go to waste,” he told a press conference yesterday.

Masing said he had high hopes that powerboat racing would become a regular activity in Bintulu to boost the local tourism industry.

“Today, we see participants coming in from all across the region. I am very pleased,” he said.

“I do not see why we cannot make it a regular event as Bintulu is an ideal place, being strategically located and highly accessible.”

The first leg of the competition, which ended at 1pm, saw four different categories of boats racing against each other in the 13 Horse Power Tunnel Boat, 2-Piston 30 Horse Power Tunnel Boat, 3-Piston 30 Horse Power Tunnel Boat and 50 Horse Power Tunnel Boat categories.

A Bruneian, Julihilee Abdul Wahab, 38, stole the show with his 50 Horse Power boat, nicknamed the “Ferrari 78”, and bagged the gold trophy in the category.

“My team of four came from Brunei and we won. Initially, it was a bit hard to manoeuvre the boat in a different environment as we are used to waters near the Bandar Seri Begawan Waterfront but we pulled through,” he said.

The four-hour event also drew a large crowd who mostly came with their families.

Businesswoman Aishah Peri, 60, who came with her son, Jeffri Atan, 36, was excited to witness the inaugural race.

“I am proud my hometown was chosen to host Malaysia Day celebrations for the second time. I am not going to miss any of the activities planned for the celebration,” she said.