http://www.business-standard.com/article/pti-stories/need-to-set-up-mro-facility-at-mihan-with-russian-support-cm-116101500397_1.html
51
5
Need to set up MRO facility at MIHAN with Russian support:CM

There is a need to set up a maintenance, repair and overhaul facility at MIHAN project in collaboration with for Russian aircraft used in the Indian Air Force, Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis has said.



A Russian delegation, led by Minister for Industries and Trade Denis Manturov, yesterday visited to Multi- modal International Hub and Airport at (MIHAN), where its members were welcomed by Fadnavis.



The team saw the facilities and infrastructure at MIHAN, which also houses a special economic zone (SEZ). The delegation visited existing maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) depot and premises of TAL Manufacturing Solution.



Fadnavis held a high-level meeting with the Russian trade and industry delegation at MIHAN.



Later, Fadnavis told the media "there is a need to set up a MRO facility with the support of Russian Government in MIHAN (for aircraft bought from Russia)."



Fadnavis said he would soon meet Defence Minister to get necessary permissions and clearances required for the MRO project.



Representatives from Russian manufacturing companies will also be invited for the meeting, Fadnavis said.



He said if the MRO comes into existence, it would solve problems related to procurement of original equipment for a large number of Russian aircraft used by the IAF, which has its Maintenance Command in Nagpur.



Due to a mismatch in standards and procurement of components for the Russian aircraft in the IAF, there is a huge scope for original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) to invest and set up units in India, the Chief Minister said.



"With these OEMs in the country, the problem of sourcing components for the will be solved," he said.



Once the nod of Defence Ministry is received, he said, top priority would be accorded to starting the project.



Manturov said the Russian Government would provide full support to projects that could be set up in Maharashtra.



Fadnavis expressed his government's willingness to join hands with for further development of MIHAN, which is spread over 4,300 hectares of land.



Out of the land area, the airport is on about 1,360 hectares and SEZ around 2000 hectares.



The possible Russian investment in MIHAN is likely to be discussed during the BRICS summit that began in Goa today.

(This story has not been edited by Business Standard staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)

Press Trust of India