http://www.thedailystar.net/frontpage/defeat-terrorism-1299670
51
5
Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina yesterday urged BIMSTEC leaders to find out the mentors, masterminds, abettors, financiers, arms suppliers and trainers of terrorists and extremists to defeat terrorism.

"We must be prepared to take strong actions against terrorists and their supporters. I firmly believe that within BIMSTEC we should be able to strengthen our cooperation to address terrorism and the rise of violent extremism," she said.

Hasina was delivering her statement at the BIMSTEC Leaders' Retreat held at the tourist city of Goa.

Chaired by Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Retreat programme was also addressed by leaders of other BIMSTEC countries.

In Bangladesh, Hasina said, her government has taken a zero-tolerance approach to terrorism and violent extremism. "We've also taken massive awareness programmes for the youths, for families, for educational institutions. We've succeeded in disintegrating the homegrown terrorists."

Hasina said as she stood there as one of the four founding leaders who had inspired the launching of the Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (BIMSTEC) way back in 1997, during the past 20 years, BIMSTEC has made progress in connecting two regions -- South Asia and South East Asia.

"Understandably, our progress has been slow, but the groundwork has been done. It's now time to hasten the process of integration," she added.

Hasina added time has come to seriously re-look at how BIMSTEC could be made more effective and result-oriented one as well as to draw synergies with other groupings.

"While we've 14 areas of cooperation under BIMSTEC, I believe we should try to focus more on some key areas like trade and investment, energy, connectivity and counterterrorism for next five years. Regular ministerial meetings on the key areas of cooperation are important for building momentum."

To improve the lives and livelihoods of the people of the region, Hasina said all should aim to develop regional projects which will effectively connect BIMSTEC to the peoples as well as ensure the organisation's sustainability and visibility.

For funding regional projects in the long run, the prime minister said, "We may think of a funding mechanism of our own, while collaboration with external funding sources can also be explored."

Hasina mentioned that the BIMSTEC FTA (Free Trade Agreement) negotiated in 2004 was yet to be finally concluded.

She added, "We need to reiterate our political will in favour of the FTA implementation.

“It'll help enhance our intra-regional trade and will boost the BIMSTEC activities and programmes. We may target to finally adopt the four FTA-related Agreements during the 20th Anniversary of BIMSTEC next year."

Mentioning that the transport connectivity working group has already met, she expressed her belief that the good work would continue on planning, implementing and monitoring of the prioritised projects, with the active support of the Asian Development Bank (ADB).

"For enhancing connectivity, we may consider a coastal shipping agreement. We would also like to see the MoU on Grid Interconnection signed and implemented at the earliest, for better sub-regional grid connectivity and energy trade," she said.

OUTREACH STATEMENT

Outlining three specific ways for BRICS to engage with BIMSTEC, Hasina urged the leaders of both the forums to join hands to deal with terrorism and violent extremism to achieve sustainable development through security and stability.

"All our efforts for sustainable development depend on peace, security and stability. As a responsible member of the global community, Bangladesh maintains 'zero tolerance' to any act of terrorism or violent extremism. We must join hands to deal with terrorism and violent extremism as well," she said.

The PM was delivering her statement at the BRICS and BIMSTEC Outreach at the Indian tourist city.

Chaired by Modi, the outreach meet was also addressed by other leaders from BRICS and BIMSTEC member states.

"Let our today's meet be a beginning of a 'new conversation' for collaboration between BRICS and BIMSTEC aimed at greater peace and development," Hasina said.

HASINA ACCORDED RED CARPET

Hasina was accorded a red carpet reception as she reached Goa yesterday morning to join BRICS-BIMSTEC Leaders' Outreach Summit, adds BSS.

The two-day summit kicked off in the Indian southwest state of Goa on Saturday with the theme “BRICS-BIMSTEC: A Partnership in Opportunities”.

A VVIP flight of Bangladesh Biman carrying the prime minister and her entourage members landed at Goa Naval Base Airport at 10:15am (Indian time).

Indian State Minister for External Affairs MJ Akbar, Minister for Science and Technology of Goa Alina Saldanha, Secretary (coordination) of the Government of Goa Padma Jaiswal, Bangladesh High Commissioner in New Delhi Syed Moazzem Ali and Deputy High Commissioner of Bangladesh in Mumbai Samina Naz received the prime minister at the airport.

After arrival at the airport, she was given a static guard of honour by members of the Indian Armed Forces, while artistes displayed local cultural activities in her honour.

Later, the premier, in a ceremonial motorcade, was escorted to The Leela Goa hotel, where she will be staying during her visit to the Indian southwest state.

Hasina will return home tomorrow morning.

MODI HAILS HASINA

The Indian PM welcomed his Bangladesh counterpart Sheikh Hasina to the BRICS Summit in Goa and thanked her for strengthening ties between New Delhi and Dhaka.

"Pradhanmontri Sheikh Hasina Amar Atithiyota Grohan Koray Ami Sammanita. Bharat and Bangladesher Samporkake Mojbut Korar Jonya Apnar Bhumikake Dhanyabad Janai [I'm honoured as Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina accepted my hospitality. I thank your role in strengthening the relations of India and Bangladesh]," Modi tweeted in Bangla.

THREE WAYS

Hasina outlined three specific ways for BRICS to engage with BIMSTEC like developing quality and resilient infrastructure, focus on development of science, technology and innovation capabilities and engage in a conversation by BRICS and BIMSTEC to sustain economic development.

Extending thanks to Modi for his wonderful initiative to bring the leaders of BRICS and BIMSTEC to a single table, Hasina focused on how the leaders of both the groupings could identify mutual scope as well as synergies for cooperation.

Hasina said a large part of BIMSTEC firstly needs to develop quality and resilient infrastructure as countries like Bangladesh need billions of dollars of investment.

Secondly, she said, BIMSTEC region recognises the need to focus on development of science-technology-innovation capabilities as the world is now focused on learning. Sizable part of our population needs access to technologies in farming, water, sanitation and basic health.

Thirdly, she said, both BRICS and BIMSTEC can engage in a conversation to sustain our economic development as the global economy moves on.