http://thezimbabwemail.com/zimbabwe-31007-woman-coerces-stepson-into-sex.html
51
5
SHOCKINGLY weird! A family from Madhau village under Chief Nemangwe area in Gokwe is reportedly in disarray after a married son allegedly impregnated his father’s second wife.

Trynos Ruwendedze is reportedly engaged in a face-off with his son Simon after he allegedly impregnated his second wife Munamato Marufu.

The matter came to light the day the two parties — Simon and Marufu — were caught red-handed busy between the sheets in the latter’s bedroom hut.

It is alleged that before the day the two, Marufu and Simon, were busted in the act by some relatives who had noticed the secret relationship before, informed Trynos but he did not believe them until the day he caught them in the act following a tip-off.

According to a source from the village after busting them, a heated argument erupted between Trynos and his son, during which Simon did not deny having carnal knowledge of his father’s wife.

As if adding salt into his father’s “sexual” injuries, Simon further revealed that the pregnancy which Marufu was carrying was his.

In defence he, however, claimed that he found it a temptation too good to ignore after his stepmother coerced him into having sexual intercourse with him claiming she was being sexually starved by his father.

“During a family meeting Simon told the gathering that his stepmother was the one who started the relationship when she pestered him for sex claiming her husband (Trynos) was sexually neglecting her.

“Simon confessed that he ended up succumbing to his stepmother’s seductions the day he accompanied her to the river to fetch water. He said from that day after sleeping together it later became a regular thing until Marufu fell pregnant and the night they were caught.

“During the meeting Marufu did not also mince her words when she openly confessed to her husband that she had been madly in love with his son and that the pregnancy belongs to him,” said the source who preferred anonymity.

The source further said some family members who did not want the face-off to result in bloodshed brought the matter to Chief Nemangwe’s attention.

When contacted for comment Chief Nemangwe though confirming the incident said he could not comment further since he was in Harare.

“Makunakuna iwayo akasvika kwandiri (that bizarre incident came to my attention) but at the moment I cannot comment further since I am in Harare,” said Chief Nemangwe.