http://www.vanguardngr.com/2016/08/s-east-pdp-passes-vote-confidence-govs-ekweremadu/
51
5
By Emeka Mamah & Chinedu Adonu

Enugu—The South East zone of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, yesterday, passed vote of confidence on the Deputy Senate President, Chief Ike Ekweremadu and the governors of Abia, Ebonyi and Enugu states for their purposeful representation at the zone.

Among those who attended the meeting are the governors of Ebonyi and Enugu states, Dave Umahi, and Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi respectively; Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu; Senator Chukwuka Utazi; Ambassador Fidelia Njeze; Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu; Senator Ben Obi; Sam Egwu; Peter Obi as well the Speaker of Enugu State House of Assembly, Edward Ubosi among others.

National Vice Chairman of the party in the zone, Chief Austin Umahi made this known during a meeting to strategize on the forthcoming National Convention of the party coming up in Port Harcourt.

Umahi said that the party was happy with Ekweremadu’s representation of the zone in the Senate, adding that the people were proud of him as a worthy ambassador of the Igbo.

Umahi said: “Ekweremadu is a true Igboman. We are happy with him. He is doing very well at the National Assembly. He has paid his dues and we pass a vote of confidence on him.

“We are proud of him and we support him. He is a very good ambassador of the South East. We have decided to give him all our support.”

Umahi who further poured encomiums on Ekweremadu also commended the PDP South East governors who he said had done very by paying salaries and engaging youths and women in wealth creation jobs despite the economic meltdown in the country.

“When you look at various indices, they have done very well. You will agree with me that they have done very well, people in the states are receiving the dividends of democracy.

“The governors are making us proud. We have decided to give them 100 per cent vote of confidence,” he added.

On the zoning of offices, Umahi said that they had shared the posts to states pointing out that the party in the zone would go to the national convention in Port Harcourt, Rivers State with one voice.

Umahi however, lamented that the party in the zone was broke, even as it was able to organise the zonal meeting through personal efforts.

“We have no money. We lack funds even to organise meetings. This is not the time we carry money about. We need help and assistance,” he added.