http://gulfnews.com/news/asia/india/work-on-mumbai-s-first-underground-metro-to-start-in-october-1.1895667
50
5
Mumbai: Work on Mumbai Metro-3, the first underground Metro in Maharashtra and longest in the country, will begin next month, officials say.

Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis, who is keen that the 33.5-km project be completed on schedule, is making sure all hurdles in the way of constructing the metro line are resolved as early as possible.

As this route cuts through overpopulated areas, where large-scale land acquisition would have been difficult, it was decided to go underground.

Last month, on August 24, the Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation Ltd (MMRCL) signed an agreement with four civil contractors who were awarded six packages for constructing civil works — tunnels and stations.

Earlier, MMRCL had issued Letter of Award to five contractors with a total cost of construction at Rs181 billion (Dh9.91 billion).

The Colaba-Bandra-SEEPZ route with 27 key stations — out of which 26 will be underground — will connect close to 30 educational institutions, six central business districts and 30 recreational centres.

It will also link domestic and international terminals, as well as industrial areas.

Moreover, it will connect several hospitals in the island city as well as some suburbs.

The North-South corridor will provide connectivity to those places not served by existing suburban railways.

These areas include Kalbadevi, Worli, Prabhadevi and Andheri. The corridor provides interchanges with Western Railways at Churchgate, Mumbai Central and Mahalakshmi; Central Railway at Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus; Monorail at Mahalakshmi and Metro Line-1 at Marol Naka.

It will also provide connectivity to the upcoming Metro Line-2 for seamless travel.

The daily ridership on the corridor is estimated at 1.4 million in 2021 and expected to rise to 1.7 million in 2031.

Fadnavis said: “I want to create a Metro network in the city which will decongest the suburban rail system that is overcrowded and provide easy, comfortable and safe journey to Mumbaikars.

“The Metro Network will have stations at every 500m which makes easier to access on foot unlike railway stations that are 1-2 km apart. The Metros can also be integrated with Monorail and suburban rail network. My aim is to create a commuter system that will enable people to reach their destination in an hour’s time. The environment-friendly Metro will bring back the lost glory of the city.”

As Mumbaikars await this additional transport line, authorities say that around 90 per cent of the government land has been transferred to MMRCL for the Metro Line-3 corridor.