https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/arts-and-entertainment/wp/2016/09/13/letterman-ansari-kimmel-and-aykroyd-among-bill-murrays-twain-toasters/
57
5


Actor Bill Murray will receive the Kennedy Center’s Mark Twain prize next month. (Michael Scott Slosar/Contour by Getty Images)

Bill Murray will be saluted next month as the latest Mark Twain prize recipient by a slate of comedians and actors that range from original “Saturday Night Live” star Dan Aykroyd, iconic talk show host David Letterman, writer Roy Blount Jr. and actress Sigourney Weaver to such younger comics as Aziz Ansari, Bill Hader and late night host Jimmy Kimmel. Older brother Brian Doyle-Murray will also be on the bill.

The guests, announced this morning, will be part of the Oct. 23 event, which will be broadcast nationally on PBS Oct. 28.

Murray, 65, is the latest selected to receive the Kennedy Center’s Mark Twain Prize for American Humor, launched in 1998 and with past recipients including Richard Pryor, George Carlin, Carol Burnett and Bob Newhart. October’s event is unlikely to bring the drama of last year, when Eddie Murphy stunned the audience during his acceptance speech by not only doing his first standup bit in decades, but also by slipping into his Bill Cosby routine. Murphy had shied away from poking fun at the embattled comedian earlier in the year during SNL’s 40th-anniversary special.

[Eddie Murphy hasn’t told a joke on stage for 28 years. He’s still the funniest guy around.]



Murray is known for being unpredictable, whether taking on creatively daring projects (“The Razor’s Edge,” “Hyde Park on Hudson”) or for his legendary pop-up appearances, when he has been known to drop into a karaoke party, a kickball game or snag French fries from an unsuspecting diner. There’s even a website devoted to these appearances.

But Murray is receiving the Twain award for his substantive body of work, which includes three seasons on SNL, a series of smash comedies including “Stripes,” “Caddyshack” and “Ghostbusters,” and his reinvention, in the late ’90s, as a regular player in Wes Anderson’s films and his masterful turn in Sofia Coppola’s melancholic masterpiece “Lost in Translation.”

[Stand-up guy: Mark Twain Prize recipient Jay Leno returns to his comedy roots]