http://leadership.ng/business/546166/boi-gombe-govt-sign-n360m-solar-power-deal
57
5
The Bank of Industry(BoI) and Gombe State Government yesterday signed a N360million agreement for the deployment of pay-as-you-go solar home systems in selected rural communities of the state.

Gombe is one of the states that benefitted from the first phase of the BoI/UNDP rural electrification programme involving one community in each of the six geo-political zones.

The success of the project had prompted the Gombe State executive governor, Dr. Ibrahim Damkambo to seek its replication in other nine local government areas of the state.

The project, which is expected to commence with the deployment of stand-alone solar home systems in Lule 1 and 2 communities in Dukku local government area and Pata community in Yemaltu Debba, would be co- funded by the BoI and Gombe State Government on equal sum of N180million each.

Speaking during the signing ceremony in Gombe, the acting managing director, BoI, Mr Waheed Olagunju, said the project would boost economic activities in the benefiting communities.

According to him, the problem of electricity supply from the national grid in Nigeria underscored the need to explore other sources of power generation.

“The persistent problem of electricity supply from the national grid in Nigeria has made it imperative to explore alternative power supply options to lift Nigeria and its rural communities in particular, out of darkness and provide them a new lease of life afforded by the presence of not only reliable, but clean and sustainable energy,”he said.

While calling on other state governors to replicate the solar systems in off-grid communities in their states, Olagunju noted that it had been stories of improved livelihood, better living condition and economic rejuvenation in the communities where the first phase of the projects were executed.

“These communities with an average of 200 homes, each hitherto had no electricity and lived in darkness. But since the provision of solar electricity, the lives of the inhabitants of these communities have changed dramatically.

“The provision of solar electricity has reduced energy costs, created more micro businesses, improved healthcare and quality of education,” he added. While underscoring the overall significance of alternative form of energy, the BoI boss maintained that it would be difficult for the country to achieve inclusive and sustainable growth and development without taking proactive steps towards addressing the myriad of challenges that had stalled the progress and prosperity of its people, particularly those at the bottom of the pyramid.