http://usa.onlinenigeria.com/news/146137-amber-rudd-threatens-eu-over-plans-to-force-travellers-to-pay-for-visas-in-europe.html
57
5
Suggests any restrictions on Britons would affect UK approach to EU nationals in Brexit talks

Says it wouldn't be ideal but reflected the 'two-way negotiation' with EU

By Matt Dathan, Political Correspondent For Mailonline

Published: 09:15 EST, 11 September 2016 | Updated: 22:24 EST, 11 September 2016

Amber Rudd threatened retaliation against the EU after plans emerged to force British tourists to apply for visas to travel to Europe after Brexit.

The Home Secretary admitted the European Commission was considering a scheme to introduce a visa programme similar to the US waiver to tighten security in the wake of recent terror attacks through the EU.

She said reports of the scheme, which would require Britons to pay for permission to travel to the 26 countries in the EU's borderless Schengen zone, was not ideal but was an example of the 'two-way negotiation' that would take place between the UK and Brussels.

Ms Rudd suggested any restrictions imposed on Britons would affect the UK Government's approach to EU nationals.

Amber Rudd (pictured on the Andrew Marr Show today) threatened retaliation against the EU after plans emerged to force British tourists to apply for visas to travel to Europe after Brexit

Asked about reports of the EU's visa plans, Ms Rudd told the Andrew Marr Show: 'I don't think it's particularly desirable, but we don't rule it out, because we have to be allowed a free hand to get the best negotiations.

'It's a reminder that this is a two-way negotiation.

'The EU and the Commissioners may be considering alternatives - they will be considering their negotiations with us, just as we are considering it with them.

'But I am going to make sure that what we do get is in the best interests of the UK.'

Currently British passport holders can travel throughout member states without having to apply for short-term visas, but Britain's decision to leave the EU has left question marks over the criteria needed for UK nationals to visit the Schengen zone.

According to The Guardian, the European Commission is due to unveil draft legislation for the EU travel information and authorisation system (Etias) later this year as part of a broader response to calls for greater security across the continent following recent terror attacks in France and Belgium.

The scheme would cover all visitors to the Schengen zone from countries that do not need a visa to enter.

British passport holders may have to apply for visas to visit some parts of Europe after Article 50 is invoked and the UK leaves the European Union

Shadow home secretary Andy Burnham attacked Ms Rudd over the prospect of Britons facing a visa system to visit EU countries.

He said: 'This is yet another example of the drift and confusion as a result of the Government's failure to plan for Brexit. Ministers should not just accept there's a cost of £50 for the average family to go on holiday.

'The Home Secretary's words will not have reassured ordinary families about the cost of Brexit. She seems to be sympathetic to an idea that will put a flat £50 tax on the average family holiday in Europe.

WORK PERMIT IMMIGRATION SYSTEM 'CERTAINLY HAS VALUE' SAYS AMBER RUDD Amber Rudd (pictured on the Andrew Marr Show today) said work permits 'certainly have value' Amber Rudd gave a further indication that the Government is pursuing a work permit system to control immigration from the EU. Theresa May last week ruled out a points-based immigration system - a key pledge by the Vote Leave campaign. And Boris Johnson, who championed the policy during the referendum campaign, admitted defeat on the issue. Asked what kind of immigration policy the Government would pursue after Brexit, Ms Rudd told the Andrew Marr Show: 'What we're going to look at is how we can get the best for the economy, driving the numbers down but protecting the people who really add value to the economy. 'Whether we look at the work permit system or another system is something that my department is looking at closely at the moment.' Pressed on the prospect of a work permit system, she added: 'I think that work permits certainly have value but, as I say, we're not ruling anything out at the moment.' The Home Secretary sought to reassure universities after reports that the Government is planning a further crackdown on the number of visas offered to foreign students. 'We are looking at a number of options but students do make an important contribution,' she said. 'There's going to be no blanket banning of students coming to the UK but we are looking at bringing down the numbers overall.'

'Tory ministers might think nothing of that, but it would make it even harder for ordinary families to afford a holiday.

'Norway doesn't have the charge so why should we? I challenge the Home Secretary to rule it out.'

Steve Peers, a professor of EU law at the University of Essex, said he believes electronic visa waiver plans will go ahead but he did not know what the rules would be.

'It's going to annoy a lot of people,' he said. 'We can ask for full free movement, but any arrangement is going to have to be reciprocal, so you have to ask what Nigel Farage and the others will accept.'

Camino Mortera-Martinez, a research fellow specialising in justice and home affairs at the Centre for European Reform, quoted in the newspaper, said: 'In theory UK citizens, as third-country nationals, would certainly be subject to the obligations (of such a scheme),' adding: 'This will have to be part of the Brexit talks. It will all have to be negotiated.'

It is believed EU powerhouses France and Germany, who have been victim to a spate of terror attacks in recent months, both back a system based on the US ESTA visa and want visitors to request permission to travel to the zone at least three days before they enter.

The plans for a visa programme were announced back in 2011 and the French interior minister, Bernard Cazeneuve, said last month that France supported 'a European ESTA, like that in the US, Canada and Australia'.

Now the plan has resurfaced as part of a series of security measures to counter the growing terror threat in Europe.

In July a German-Iranian citizenship shot and killed nine at a shopping center in Munich while on Bastille Day in Nice, in the same month, 86 people were mowed down by a truck driven by a fanatic.

British citizens can currently travel to the US without a visa although Britons must pay $14 US dollars and complete and submit an application form at least 72 hours (three days) in advance of entering the country-as part of a visa waiver programme.

However UK passport holders can only stay in the US for 90 days under the scheme and if a Briton has a criminal record they can be denied entry.

Regulations passed by congress earlier this year makes Britons, who have traveled to Iran, Iraq, Syria or Sudan in the past five years ineligible for the scheme so they must apply for a visa to enter the US.

In her interview today Ms Rudd gave a further indication that Britain would pursue a work permit system to control immigration from the EU.

'What we're going to look at is how we can get the best for the economy, driving the numbers down but protecting the people who really add value to the economy, she said.

'Whether we look at the work permit system or another system is something that my department is looking at closely at the moment.'

Pressed on the prospect of a work permit system, she added: 'I think that work permits certainly have value but, as I say, we're not ruling anything out at the moment.'

The Home Secretary sought to reassure universities after reports that the Government is planning a further crackdown on the number of visas offered to foreign students.

'We are looking at a number of options but students do make an important contribution,' she said.

'There's going to be no blanket banning of students coming to the UK but we are looking at bringing down the numbers overall.'