http://www.khmertimeskh.com/news/29657/areng-residents-wary-of-road/
51
5
Areng Valley residents cautiously welcomed Prime Minister Hun Sen’s announcement late last month of a plan to build 18 kilometers of roads in Koh Kong province.



But community representatives are now more wary of the plan and have asked the government to make sure the road is used for its intended purpose – ecotourism – and not for illegal logging and drug trafficking.



Ven Vorn, an environmental activist in Areng Valley and a leader in the local Chong minority community in Thma Bang district’s Chumnorb commune, said during a press conference yesterday that he was worried about the after-effects of more development and how it would change their community.



“I want a good and easy road, but we have asked the government to control it and manage it carefully, especially the part about security for us because we experienced this same thing in Pursat province,” he said.



“When the good roads came, they began cutting down trees in the community, new people came to the area to live and a flow of drugs and crime followed the tourists in. Theft and crime have become more frequent as well.”



To illustrate the potential changes, he spoke of the disparity between the local fishermen who catch enough fish to fill their soup for the day and the industrial fishing operations that will now have access to a larger swath of the local environment through the planned road.



“I would stay alone in jail if it meant the hundreds of families here can live well,” he told the crowd.



During an August 22 forum on the protection and conservation of natural resources at the Peace Palace, Mr. Hun Sen agreed to build the road in Koh Kong. Some local news outlets reported that he made the decision because of pro-government activist Thy Sovantha, who allegedly complained about how difficult it was to get to the province and specifically the Areng Valley.



The path to the Areng Valley from National Road 48 is about 18km long and Mr. Hun Sen assigned the Rural Development Ministry to build the road and develop the area as a tourist attraction.



Areng Valley environmental activist San Mala lauded the government’s development plans, telling Khmer Times it would help local residents live better and make traveling easier. But he was concerned about potential migrants, businessmen and timber traders from other provinces investing in the area and changing it. “The government should have a clear mechanism, otherwise illegal traders will destroy all of the natural resources in the area. We asked the Environment Ministry, which is responsible for the project, to monitor the activities of local officials carefully,” he said.



“If not, they will be no different than forestry administration officials who just stay there and only take money from traders.”



Ministry of Environment spokesman Sao Sopheap could not be reached for comment.



The plan to develop the Areng Valley comes amidst a larger government push to not only protect the country’s remaining forests and jungles, but profit from them.



At the same forum last month, Environment Minister Say Samal backed up the prime minister’s comments with a list of actions his ministry plans to take in the coming months.



He said his ministry is preparing a biological conservation framework to connect each protected area to one another, creating a “biological corridor” of ecosystems that will ensure sustainable management of forest resources and biodiversity.



“The ministry will continue to prepare for the establishment of more new protection areas recently added in an effort to push development projects in communities to prepare them as tourist destinations,” he said.



According to a 2015 report from NGO Forest Trends, deforestation in Cambodia continues unabated because private companies are using their access to economic land concessions to pilfer the only natural reserves Cambodia has left.



Even in protected areas like Prey Lang, local residents consistently report that their town is essentially run by logging companies, who monitor those entering and exiting the area and pay people to illegally cut down trees for them.



All of this has continued despite public efforts by Mr. Hun Sen to show that the government is at least attempting to take the issue seriously – even as army and government officials have been seen actively working with, and sometimes for, logging companies.