http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/patagonia-political-campaign_us_57d33493e4b03d2d459aa867
57
5
One presidential candidate wants to set the country on a path of environmental destruction, the other refuses to include policies in her platform many say are crucial to halting climate change.

But with two months to go before election day, Patagonia is making a push to get green voters to the polls.

The high-end outdoor apparel and gear retailer plans to spend $1 million on a campaign to get voters in the 17 states where it operates to cast their ballots for candidates who support strong environmental policies, the company told The Huffington Post on Friday.

“We are very concerned that the ugliness and the divisiveness of this election has left voters feeling disenfranchised with politics, and they might sit this one out,” Lisa Pike Sheehy, Patagonia’s vice president of environmental activism, said in a phone interview. “It’s imperative that this doesn’t happen.”

The Ventura, California-based apparel maker has funded get-out-the-vote campaigns in both midterm and general elections since 2004. Normally, the strategy focused on presidential politics. But this year’s mudslinging has proved messier than most, with allegations of corruption against Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton and an ever-growing list of unethical dealings, racist and xenophobic statements and nationalistic comments from GOP nominee Donald Trump.

“There’s so much emphasis right now being focused on the presidential office,” Pike Sheehy said. “You’ve got scores of elections happening ― at the mayoral level, the state level, in the Senate ― that are equally if not more important to how communities are going to address climate change.”

The company plans to host two events in its 29 stores across the U.S. ― one on Sept. 27 to mark National Voter Registration Day, and another in October featuring voting resources and reading material from its partner organizations. The stores will provide guides outlining the environmental stances of each region’s candidates and ballot measures.

Patagonia also donated $200,000 to NextGen Climate, the nonprofit grassroots campaign group founded by billionaire environmentalist Tom Steyer, and HeadCount, the New York-based nonprofit that registers voters at concerts and musical events. The company declined to break down how the rest of the money would be spent.

Founded in 1973 by rock climber and environmentalist Yvon Chouinard, privately held Patagonia has kept nature and climate stewardship at the core of its company ethos, donating 1 percent of sales each year to green causes. In 2011, Patagonia openly declared war on the fashion industry’s wasteful culture, urging shoppers to buy fewer of its jackets and to make the ones they have last. In March, the company led a $35 million investment for a fund that helps pay for rooftop solar installations across the country.

“This has been part of our DNA from the beginning,” said Pike Sheehy, adding that the company’s certification as a benefit corporation in 2011 enforced strict environmental standards on the firm. “We feel a responsibility to lend our voice to issues where we can contribute.”