http://news2.onlinenigeria.com/news/general/515999-popular-actor-opens-up-about-getting-successful-through-diabolical-means.html
10
1
Home | News | General | Popular actor opens up about getting successful through diabolical means

Yoruba actor, Odunlade Adekola, has addressed rumours that his career success has been as a result of his reliance on supernatural powers.

Odunlade Adekola

According to Punch, the actor denied the story, adding that his belief in God had been the reason for his success.

“I never knew I would be successful as an actor; my belief has always been that God should elevate me in my endeavours. I always prayed that God should make me a successful person.”

“Some people say that I used voodoo or metaphysical powers to be successful. I hear when they say such but I tell everyone that I can never do such.”

READ ALSO: 5 Nigerian actors we never knew were fathers

“During the graduation of my students last year, I addressed this issue because it was during that time people were peddling rumours of my demise.”

“When the rumour of my death hit town, some people said that I did ‘jazz’ to be successful. That was why during the graduation of my students last year, I said it in public that if I had ever thought of doing ‘jazz’ to succeed God should make me lose everything I had ever worked for.”

“I hear these comments but they do not move me at all. I am a writer, director, producer and an actor. It is normal for people to talk but it has never upset me.”

The actor revealed that he has always been a funny actor since the beginning of his career in his church. He said although people loved his performances, he never thought of making it a career.

“I started acting in church when I was a kid. When I was in church, I was like Baba Suwe, whenever I mounted the stage, people would start laughing. A lot of people really loved me but I did not really have interest in acting.

READ ALSO: Nigerian celebrities welcome the new month

“There was a friend of mine, Tunde, who also acted. He told an actor about me and the man asked to see me. When I got there, the man asked me to act for him and ever since then, I never stopped acting. I later joined the man’s acting group and that was how I started. This happened in 1996,” Adekola added.

Rate this article 0

CLICK HERE TO READ MORE FROM: General