https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2016/sep/27/brexit-weekly-briefing-theresa-may-3-three-brexiteers-0
13
1
Welcome to the Guardian’s weekly Brexit briefing, a summary of developments as Britain edges towards the EU exit. If you’d like to receive it as a weekly email, do please sign up here.

Producing the Guardian’s thoughtful, in-depth journalism is expensive – but supporting us isn’t. If you value our Brexit coverage, please become a Guardian supporter and help make our future more secure. Thank you.

The big picture

Amid all the enjoyable historical mud-slinging over who did – or didn’t – say or do what in the government during the referendum campaign (see below), we shouldn’t lose sight of the fact that last week Theresa May scored a hat-trick.

Of the cabinet’s Three Brexiteers (foreign secretary Boris Johnson, trade secretary Liam Fox and Brexit secretary David Davis), Johnson was, so far, the only one not to have been publicly rebuked by Downing Street.

Davis got it in the neck for telling MPs Britain was unlikely to remain in the single market (“not government policy”). Fox was told off for saying British firms were too “fat and lazy” to be any good at exporting.

So it was really only a matter of time for Boris. In an interview in New York, he told Sky News that Britain would trigger article 50 and begin the formal two-year process of leaving the EU “by the early part of next year”.

No 10 declined to back him, saying pointedly that the government’s position “has not changed”: in other words, article 50 won’t be triggered before the end of 2016, and beyond that we’re saying nothing.

The incident prompted the satirical website the Daily Mash to report that May had now appointed a minister “specifically charged with denying all statements by the ministers in charge of Brexit”.

Johnson also said Brexit, which he reckoned could take less than two years, would allow Britain “to benefit from fantastic opportunities for greater free trade with our friends in the EU” (he did not say how) and repeated his view that Britain could have its cake and eat it:

They’d have us believe there’s some automatic trade-off between what they call access to the single market and free movement. Complete baloney ... Nothing to do with each other.

That prompted another slap-down – though not from May. In Berlin, the French and German finance ministers, Michel Sapin and Wolfgang Schäuble, could barely disguise their mirth, exchanging glances before Schäuble declared:

We will gladly send her majesty’s foreign minister a copy of the Lisbon treaty. Then he can read that there is a certain link between the single market and the four core principles in Europe.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest The German and French finance ministers Wolfgang Schäuble (left) and Michel Sapin. Photograph: Emmanuel Dunand/AFP/Getty Images

But if Johnson was indulging in wishful thinking last week, so perhaps was May, breezily dismissing the risk that any of the remaining EU member states might veto a future EU-UK trade deal: “The 27 will sign up to a deal with us ... I believe in good trading relations.”

In the midst of so much cheery optimism, a sobering blast: George Osborne, the ex-chancellor, popped up to warn the government’s hardline Brexiteers against walking away from the single market:

We must resist the false logic ... that values the dangerous purity of splendid isolation over the practical necessity of cooperation in the real world. Brexit won a majority. Hard Brexit did not.

Business – especially the City – was also sounding increasingly anxious.

If the Guardian’s new Brexit dashboard of key economic data concluded that most analysts gloomy post-referendum expectations had been confounded, and the OECD revised up its UK growth forecast for this year (and warned the downturn would come later and harder), corporate warnings of Brexit danger came thick and fast.

If Brexit means Britain leaves the single market as well as the EU, almost 5,500 City firms that rely on EU passporting rights to sell their services across the bloc would be affected – amounting to a “significant” loss of business, the Treasury select committee said.



According to a survey by the CBI accountants PwC, financial services firms are becoming increasingly concerned, with optimism dropping for the third quarter in a row from July to September.

Meanwhile the boss of the London Stock Exchange, Xavier Rolet, said at least 100,000 jobs could go across the UK if the City loses its ability to process euro-denominated transactions.

And business figures from Ryanair’s Michael O’Leary to leading financial PR man, Roland Rudd, and the influential Sir Martin Sorrell of advertising giant WPP demanded government clarity, rubbishing May’s “Brexit means Brexit” mantra, warning that investment was being postponed, and suggesting a better-than-forecast economy was a “false dawn”.

The view from Europe

Aside from Schäuble and Sapin’s little quip, the president of the European parliament, Martin Schulz, was in London last week to remind everyone that the parliament “will play a key role in setting a new relationship between the EU and the UK – not least because we must consent to any withdrawal treaty and subsequent treaty setting out the full relationship”.

Schulz reiterated that the parliament wanted May to invoke article 50 as soon as possible and that Britain would not be allowed to pick from an “à la carte menu” of EU privileges after Brexit, with no deal possible on enhanced single market access without free movement of labour.

“I refuse to imagine a Europe where lorries and hedge funds are free to cross borders but citizens cannot,” he said, adding that his visit had left him with the distinct impression the government had been “in no way prepared for the leave majority”, and was now “undecided about how, and when, they should trigger article 50”.

Elsewhere, Switzerland, which is engaged in its own battle with Brussels over free movement following a 2014 referendum that means it must now try to curb EU immigration, largely (and perhaps ominously for Britain) caved in.

The Swiss parliament voted for a “local preference” compromise in jobs hires that it hopes the EU will accept, allowing it to retain its vital special trading relationship with the bloc. If not, it’s in trouble.

The view from Westminster

Facebook Twitter Pinterest David Cameron and Theresa May last month. Photograph: Steve Parsons/PA

Even with the precise definition of Brexit still to be announced (or possibly even decided), the leading players in the EU referendum have begun a proxy war over who might have been to blame for what happened.



It began with two new books connected to the Brexit vote, by David Cameron’s former communications chief, the newly knighted Craig Oliver, and the political journalist Tim Shipman.

Both alleged May had been a less-than-helpful remainer. Oliver’s book said she pursued a “submarine strategy” – disappearing from action until the result was in – while Shipman quoted Cameron as calling his then-home secretary “lily-livered” on immigration.

The reaction was swift. Leading Brexiteer Iain Duncan Smith told Oliver he should “stop carping”, while unnamed allies of May furiously briefed newspapers that far from supposedly arguing against a so-called emergency brake on immigration numbers from the EU, she wrote twice to Cameron advocating it.

And what of Labour? After the just-gone Liberal Democrat annual conference talked about little else but Brexit, the current Labour equivalent in Liverpool – starring a now comfortably re-elected Jeremy Corbyn as leader – had not a single debate on the subject scheduled for the main conference hall.

You should also know that

Read this:

In the Guardian, Anne McElvoy says No 10 needs to start defining what a soft Brexit looks like, and outlining its benefits:

It will cause ... a wider argument about what Brexit is to mean, but the least worst option is better than the alternatives, whatever ructions it causes with hardline Tory leavers.

In the FT (paywall), Martin Wolf says he thinks a hard Brexit is now more or less inevitable. Given the result of the vote and the government’s belief that it must now control immigration and free itself of EU regulation, “the only reasonable alternative” to hard Brexit would be to stay inside:

The UK has chosen a largely illusory autonomy over EU membership. That has consequences. It will have to accept this grim reality and move as quickly as it can to whatever the future holds.

Back at the Guardian, Nick Dearden also argues forcefully against a hard Brexit, urging the left to up its game as a matter of urgency:

If progressive forces fail to create a vision that resonates with significant portions of leave and remain voters, the future is very bleak indeed – a free-trade, low-tax, low-regulation economy, with opposition coming not from the left, but from an increasingly insular economic nationalism.

ITV’s Robert Peston argues with impeccable if slightly technical logic that the very appointment of Liam Fox at the head of a brand new department for international trade basically means Britain is heading out of the EU’s customs union – otherwise Fox would be “as much use as a fish on a bicycle”.

And finally, for lovers of the legal and constitutional intricacies that will also define Brexit, lawyer and writer David Allen Green has a mind-boggling list of 19 major hurdles it must clear before it can become a reality (and the comments beneath his blog list a few more).

Tweet of the week