http://www.philstar.com/cebu-news/2016/10/12/1632833/mayor-warns-firm-over-project-sans-citys-clearance
51
5
CEBU, Philippines - Mandaue City Mayor Gabriel Luigi Quisumbing said he will go after companies and businesses that implement their projects without the city government’s go signal.

Quisumbing yesterday threatened to apprehend the personnel of the Metropolitan Cebu Water District and impound their equipment for conducting projects that allegedly did not have permits.

Last Sunday and Monday, MCWD conducted pipe installation works at a condominium along Hernan Cortes Street, which reportedly caused heavy traffic in the area.

The mayor said the city did not receive a public advisory from MCWD that could have helped the city prepare for traffic congestion as a result of the pipe works.

MCWD, through its public affairs department manager Charmaine Rodriguez-Kara who personally met Quisumbing yesterday, has since apologized for the incident.

"We apologize to the motorists who were inconvenienced by the traffic last Sunday," Rodriguez-Kara said.

Freeman ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch:

She admitted that they failed to coordinate with the city government and no public notices were issued before the work started.

"We promised the mayor that there will be proper coordination with the city government and prior public notices will be issued before any work will be done from now on," Rodriguez-Kara later told The FREEMAN in a text message.

While Quisumbing said he appreciated MCWD for taking responsibility, he warned the firm and other companies and establishments that he will not tolerate similar cases in the future.

"I would like to thank the MCWD representatives who came today to explain what happened on H. Cortes last Sunday-Monday,” he said. “However, I expressed my disappointment at the lack of coordination and assured them that if it happens again without coordination and permit, I will have their personnel arrested and equipment impounded.”

The mayor also reminded that the management, owners and construction workers are required to display the building permits prominently at their construction sites in accordance with City Ordinance 12-2011-606. (FREEMAN)