http://www.standardmedia.co.ke/article/2000213632/catholic-nuns-celebrate-golden-silver-jubilee
51
5


Updated Sun, August 28th 2016 at 00:00 GMT +3

Diocese of Kakamega sisters of Mary during renewal of their vows with God during silver and golden jubilee celebrations held at St. Mary's Mukumu boarding primary school grounds on August 27, 2016. The holy mass was conducted by Catholic Diocese of Kakamega Bishop, Rt. Rev. Joseph Obanyi. [Photo:BENJAMIN SAKWA/Standard]

Catholic faithful celebrated Golden and Silver Jubilee of sisters in Mukumu, Kakamega County, yesterday.

Four sisters Rita Itebete, Boromeo Nasambu, Anselm Bunyasi and Emenentia Wabuyaga celebrated their 50 years of sisterhood in the Catholic church, at the Sister's of Mary Convent.

Twenty four sisters including Veronica Ogot, Agre Lando, Catherine Muthee and Rosemary Onyango celebrated their Silver Jubilee which was presided over by Kakamega Catholic Bishop Joseph Obanyi at Mukumu parish.

More than 100 sisters drawn from Kenya and Uganda attended the event. Bishop Norman Kingo of Bungoma diocese, Bishop Joseph Mairura of Kisii diocese and the retired Catholic Bishop Reverent Philip Sulumeti were also present.

Bishop Obanyi called on faithful to pray for the sisters to strengthen their faith and serve God wholeheartedly.

He asked the sisters to reflect on their past life and the task ahead of them after marking Golden and Silver Jubilee respectively.

“What they need most in their daily life is prayers since it will keep them going in their Christianity and live according to the will of God,” he said. Bishop Obanyi consequently urged sisters and Christians to work together.

Mother General, Sister Josepha Astwele who is in charge of all sisters in Kakamega diocese congratulated the sisters for their perseverance and patience in doing serving God.

She observed that the task ahead of sisters is hard and will require them to have faith. “With God’s help and grace I know we are going to succeed in leading the congregation to the right direction,” said sister Astwele.

Sister Itebete called on her colleagues to soldier on serving Lord despite the challenges.