http://www.news.gov.hk/en/record/html/2016/09/20160914_162257.shtml
57
5
none

Acting Chief Executive Rimsky Yuen

Over 5,500 Vietnamese nationals are residing in Hong Kong. Last year, almost 60,000 visitors from Vietnam came to Hong Kong, an increase of some 7% over the previous year. Strong ties can also be seen in the context of trade and business. In 2015, Vietnam was our ninth largest trading partner in goods, with total value exceeding US$16 billion. Over the past five years, we have seen an impressive growth of, on average, 18% in bilateral merchandise trade, and 14% in services trade.

In the past decade or so, Vietnam's economy has been growing among the fastest in the world. As Vietnam looks for further opportunities, Vietnamese companies can certainly turn to Hong Kong as a welcoming place for business and investment. Among others, you can count on our business-friendly environment; our low and simple tax regime; our rule of law; our effective intellectual property protection regime; and, of course, the free flow of information and capital and our free market economy.

In addition, Hong Kong provides the unique, and if I may suggest, the best, platform for businesses entering into the Mainland market. In 2015, a total of around US$8.9 billion worth of trade between Vietnam and the Mainland, representing some 9% of the total volume, was routed through Hong Kong. Under the "one country, two systems" policy, Hong Kong, as a Special Administrative Region of China, enjoys preferential access, and physical proximity, to the huge market north of the boundary. At the same time, we are an international and cosmopolitan city with a separate economic and legal system.

Hong Kong is, therefore, well placed to contribute to Vietnam's economic development and reforms. In the first four months of this year, Hong Kong was Vietnam's sixth largest source of investment, with direct investment amounting to almost US$200 million. We can certainly bring more business and investments into Vietnam, and help Vietnamese companies tap into the promises of the Mainland and the larger Asian region. I welcome and encourage more business partnerships between our two economies.

Looking ahead, there is every reason for Hong Kong and Vietnam to build closer ties and to take our co-operation to a new height.

The ASEAN-Hong Kong Free Trade Agreement under negotiation will, of course, boost business and investment co-operation between Hong Kong and Vietnam, and stimulate growth throughout the region. Over the past few years, the ASEAN bloc has become our second largest merchandise trade partner, ahead of the United States and the European Union, behind only the Mainland. Last year, among the ASEAN member states, Vietnam was our third and sixth largest partner in merchandise and services trade respectively. The eighth round of FTA negotiations ended just last month in Kuala Lumpur, and with good progress. I thank the Vietnamese Government for your support of the FTA, and look forward to seeing an expeditious and fruitful conclusion of the talks.

The Free Trade Agreement will also help unleash growth potential under China's Belt & Road Initiative. This far-reaching initiative - spanning more than 60 countries on three continents - aims to strengthen co-operation on policy, economic and cultural fronts, and to foster mutually rewarding progress among countries along the Belt & Road.

As an international financial centre and the world's largest offshore Renminbi centre, Hong Kong is well positioned to meet the growing demand for financial services along the Belt & Road, including infrastructure financing, offshore Renminbi services, asset and risk management, insurance and re-insurance services.

The dynamics of the various infrastructure projects spanning across markets with different cultures and legal systems certainly pose challenges and call for quality professional services. In this regard, Hong Kong professionals in accounting, engineering, consulting, project management, international legal and dispute resolution and many other sectors are highly regarded for their professional integrity, competence and global outlook. Investing in large projects, resolving commercial disputes, handling negotiations, establishing business models, dealing with property rights or investment protection - Hong Kong professionals are ideal service providers to Vietnamese enterprises.

I am very pleased that our respective chambers and companies are stepping up co-operation. In a short while, the Vietnam Chamber of Commerce & Industry, the Chinese General Chamber of Commerce, the Hong Kong-Vietnam Chamber of Commerce, together with the Hong Kong Trade Development Council, will sign a memorandum of understanding to strengthen economic and trade ties between the two places. We will also witness the signing of contracts between our companies. This is certainly a good start and I look forward to seeing many more collaboration between Hong Kong and Vietnam - not only in business, but also in culture, education, research, technology and other fronts.

Acting Chief Executive Rimsky Yuen gave these remarks at the Hong Kong - Vietnam Business & Investment Forum on September 14.