http://freerepublic.com/focus/f-religion/3469902/posts
51
5
Skip to comments.

A Bizarre Papal Move

https://www.thecatholicthing.org ^ | September 14, 2016 | Robert Royal

Posted on by NKP_Vet

So now we know. We knew before, really, but didn’t have explicit confirmation. The long, agonizing slog, however, is finally over: from Pope Francis’ invitation to Cardinal Kasper to address the bishops in Rome in February of 2014 to the pope’s letter last week to some Argentinean bishops affirming guidelines they had developed in a joint document that, in “exceptional cases,” people divorced and remarried (living in an “adulterous” relationship as we believed for 2000 years in Western Christianity), may receive Holy Communion. This whole affair is bizarre. No other word will do.

As I wrote on this page many times before the two Synods on the Family, daily during those events, and subsequently, it was clear – at least to me – that the pope wanted his brother bishops to approve some form of what came to be known as the Kasper Proposal. That he did not get such approval – indeed, that he got significant pushback from bishops from various parts of the globe – visibly angered him, and even led him into a bit of snark at the close of the second Synod, that some opinions had “at times” been expressed there, “unfortunately, not in entirely well-meaning ways.”

Well, one man’s not entirely well-meaning ways is another’s conviction about remaining faithful to the words of Jesus. And since then and even after the publication of Amoris laetitia, Catholics – indeed, the whole world – have been embroiled in tumultuous and fruitless speculation on whether things had changed or not. Even the notorious footnote 351 of Amoris laetitia, for all the worries it caused traditional Catholics, did not really come out and say what the pope evidently thought.



(Excerpt) Read more at thecatholicthing.org ...

TOPICS:

History

Moral Issues

Religion & Culture

Theology

KEYWORDS:

catholic

pope

I would change only one word in this otherwise excellent article. Where Robert Royal writes "bizarre," I would write "heretical." Shacked up? Want to receive communion? No problem. History's first Jesuit pope and hopefully the last, says it's fine with him and don't worry about what Jesus said and please don't worry if it offends those mean old tradionalists that actually believe in the worlds of Christ.



To: NKP_Vet

The German Bishops are doing to the Church what the German government is doing to Europe. I guess they're still really mad about how WWII ended up.



To: NKP_Vet

As long as he accepts islam, he remains ignorant.



To: NKP_Vet

Already been posted: http://www.freerepublic.com/focus/f-religion/3469323/posts



by 4 posted onby ebb tide (We have a rogue curia in Rome.)

To: NKP_Vet

Suppress the Jesuits!!!!



Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works.

FreeRepublic , LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794

FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson