http://www.politico.com/tipsheets/morning-score/2016/10/fifteen-days-senate-battleground-check-in-the-two-senate-races-in-pennsylvania-obama-getting-involved-in-hundreds-of-down-ballot-races-including-state-legislature-217008
51
5
Fifteen days: Senate battleground check-in

With Maggie Severns and Elena Schneider

The following newsletter is an abridged version of Campaign Pro's Morning Score. For an earlier morning read on exponentially more races - and for a more comprehensive aggregation of the day's most important campaign news - sign up for Campaign Pro today. (http://www.politicopro.com/proinfo)

Story Continued Below

THE HOME STRETCH — Inside the battle for the Senate, 15 days out: “After all the head fakes, the millions of dollars in ad reservations made and canceled and the pleas for help from underdogs to D.C. bosses, the battle for the Senate has winnowed to six races,” POLITICO’s Burgess Everett writes. “The Senate will be won, insiders say, in a half-dozen states that could go either way on Election Day: The traditional swing states of Nevada, Pennsylvania and New Hampshire, and the newly competitive states of North Carolina, Missouri and Indiana, which historically lean Republican.”

— “Pennsylvania’s two Senate races,” by Campaign Pro’s Kevin Robillard in Philadelphia: “GOP Sen. Pat Toomey’s campaign and outside allies are spending millions of dollars on ads casting the senator as a bipartisan hero for pushing for universal background checks on gun purchases. Democrats, meanwhile, are relentlessly praising Katie McGinty as a fighter for abortion rights and connecting Toomey to Donald Trump. The catch? They are only doing it in Philadelphia.”

— “There are really two races for Senate in Pennsylvania: One focused on more liberal social and cultural issues (and Trump) in the Philadelphia area, and another outside the nation’s fifth-largest city and its suburbs, where McGinty and Toomey mostly emphasize populist economic issues, including taxes and Wall Street. The Senate campaign residents of the Pittsburgh, Harrisburg and Scranton areas are hearing about this fall sounds very different to the one in Philadelphia.” Full story.

— “The collapse of Evan Bayh,” by POLITICO’s Seung Min Kim in Indianapolis: When Evan Bayh launched a startling comeback bid for his Indiana Senate seat this summer, Republicans vowed to make his return to politics miserable. They weren't kidding. In the three months since he got in, Bayh's opponents have unleashed a torrent of attacks on the former senator: For reports that he rarely set foot in Indiana until he decided he wanted back in the Senate, for backing unpopular Obama policies, and for trading on his political connections to become really rich after he left office. Bayh's once-commanding lead over Republican Todd Young has nearly evaporated. National Democrats have had to shell out more cash to rescue Bayh, whose $10 million war chest left over from his Senate days was a big part of his appeal as a recruit in the first place.” Full story.

Days until the 2016 election: 15.

Thanks for joining us. You can email tips to the whole Campaign Pro team at sbland@politico.com, eschneider@politico.com, krobillard@politico.com, tmeyer@politico.com and mseverns@politico.com.

You can also follow us on Twitter, where we are now tweeting constantly about campaigns and the Cubs (!): @politicoscott, @ec_schneider, @politicokevin, @theodoricmeyer and @maggieseverns.

HERE, THERE, EVERYWHERE — “Obama endorses all the way down the ballot,” by POLITICO’s Edward-Isaac Dovere: “President Barack Obama will make a late splash into races for state senate and assembly over the next week, endorsing roughly 150 candidates across 20 states. He'll also back a candidate for the North Carolina Supreme Court. The endorsements — which will come along with a variety of robocalls, social media, mailers, photos of Obama with the candidates taken as he's been traveling to campaign in recent weeks, and even a few radio ads — are Obama's biggest investment in state races ever by far, and come as he gears up to make redistricting reform at the state level the political priority of his post-presidency. ... [Obama is] also expected to hit close to 60 endorsements for House races this week, taping commercials and robocalls for many of them.” Full story.

— Obama went after GOP Rep. Darrell Issa during a Sunday night campaign stop with his Democratic challenger, Dovere reports from La Jolla, Calif. "Laughing as he spoke, and at points locking eyes with his also laughing political director David Simas in the back of the room, Obama said he couldn’t believe that Issa, now locked in the hardest race of his career, had sent out [a mailer bragging:] 'I am very pleased that President Obama has signed into law the Survivors’ Bill of Rights — legislation I cosponsored to protect the victims of sexual assault.' 'That is the definition of chutzpah,” Obama said, adding later, 'that is shameless.' Standing here Sunday night at a fundraiser for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee at the home of longtime donor Christine Forester, Obama said Issa’s “primary contribution to the United States Congress has been to obstruct and to waste taxpayer dollar on trumped-up investigations that have led nowhere.” Full story.

MORE ADS — DCCC airs new attack ad in CA-10: The DCCC is doubling down on its effort to oust GOP Rep. Jeff Denham in California, airing another TV ad linking Denham to Donald Trump. “One of them hasn’t paid federal income taxes in 18 years,” the ad’s narrator says. “The other has increased his personal wealth by as much as $28 million while in office. But they want more. Jeff Denham supports Donald Trump and his massive tax cuts that will line their pockets.” The ad then touts Democrat Michael Eggman, who’s challenging Denham in a rematch. Watch the ad here.

— NRCC releases ad in IN-09: The NRCC released a new ad attacking Democrat Shelli Yoder on support for defense cuts in Indiana’s 9th District, an area that’s seen little outside spending until now, with the NRCC and House Majority PAC on the airwaves at this point. “ISIS barbarians want to destroy us and Shelli Yoder would make it easier for them,” a narrator says in the NRCC ad. “Shelli Yoder’s defense cuts are irresponsible and wrong.” Watch the ad here.

— Senate Leadership Fund releases new anti-Bayh ad: Senate Leadership Fund attacks Democrat Evan Bayh over taxpayer funded trips in a new ad.“Evan Bayh took taxpayer funded trips to meet with a company that then hired him and paid him millions,” a narrator says in the ad. “First Bayh said the meetings never happened. Turns out that wasn’t the case.” Watch the ad here.

— New Senate Leadership Fund ad ties Kander to Clinton: Senate Leadership Fund ties Missouri Democrat Jason Kander to Hillary Clinton in a new TV ad. “It’s surprising how many ways Jason Kander is just like Hillary Clinton,” a narrator says in the ad. “One Hillary in Washington would be bad enough. Reject Jason Kander.” Watch the ad here.

— THEME WATCH — Republicans adjust to Trump's slide, by The New York Times' Alexander Burns and Amy Chozick: "With Mr. Trump so diminished as a competitor for Mrs. Clinton, Republicans say they will now ask voters in newly explicit terms to elect a divided government rather than giving Mrs. Clinton unchecked power. The Congressional Leadership Fund … is to begin running ads in the coming days that attack Democratic candidates as 'rubber stamps' for Mrs. Clinton and urge voters in swing districts to support Republicans instead." Full story.

MORE POLLS — NH-01 Democratic poll: Shea-Porter 44, Guinta 32, O’Connor 10: Former Democratic Rep. Carol Shea-Porter has opened up a double-digit lead over GOP Rep. Frank Guinta in New Hampshire, according to the latest WMUR Granite State Poll. Shea-Porter leads Guinta 44 percent to 32 percent among likely voters, with the independent candidate Shawn O'Connor at 10 percent. The poll found O'Connor is pulling more support from Republicans than Democrats, even though he ran in the Democratic primary before pulling out to run as an independent. Fourteen percent of Republicans support O'Connor, while only 7 percent of Democrats do. Full story.

— Three more House internals here.

PRESIDENTIAL SPEED READ — "Clinton casts Trump aside,” by POLITICO’s Annie Karni: Hillary Clinton “spent the weekend dismissing Trump — ‘I don’t even think about responding to him anymore,’ she said Saturday, turning her attention to down-ballot races that she hopes will go Democratic and deliver congressional margins that might allow her to see some of her priorities become law. And on Monday, she campaigns with Sen. Elizabeth Warren, one of Trump’s fiercest tormentors, in New Hampshire -- an opportunity to prod the Republican nominee while elevating Democratic Gov. Maggie Hassan in her Senate race against Kelly Ayotte.” Full story.

— “Facebook co-founder drops unprecedented cash to stop Trump,” by POLITICO’s Gabriel Debenedetti: “If the first $20 million yielded cheers, the second $15 million generated stunned silence. Facebook co-founder Dustin Moskovitz vaulted suddenly and without any advance warning to the top rung of Democratic party mega donors with two unheralded tears through his checkbook in the last six weeks. His money significantly altered the short-term financial position of the pro-Hillary Clinton forces and revealed a previously unknown source of cash for Democrats. … ‘This is a unicorn-type campaign gift — you just don’t see someone basically walk into a campaign without a significant track record of activity and contribute at this level,’ said veteran Democratic strategist Chris Lehane, a Clinton White House alum who works closely with top party donors in Silicon Valley.” Full story.

— “How mega-donors helped raise $1 billion for Hillary Clinton,” by The Washington Post’s Matea Gold and Anu Narayanswamy: “Even as [Hillary Clinton’s] advisers fretted about the perception that she was too cozy with wealthy interests, they agreed to let lobbyists bundle checks for her campaign, including those representing some foreign governments, the emails show. Top aides wooed major donors for super PACs, taking advantage of the leeway that campaigns have to legally collaborate with the groups on fundraising. … An analysis by The Washington Post found that more than a fifth of the $1 billion donated to help her bid was given by just 100 wealthy individuals and labor unions — many with a long history of contributing to the Clintons.” Full story.

CODA — QUOTE OF THE DAY: “If GOP loses Senate, it's not because candidates ran WITH @realDonaldTrump; but because they ran FROM him. No time for wimps and wusses!” — Mike Huckabee, in a tweet on Sunday afternoon.