http://www.philstar.com/cebu-news/2016/10/30/1638762/female-inmates-groove-vs-illegal-drugs
51
5
CEBU, Philippines - At least 60 female inmates from the cities of Cebu, Mandaue and Lapu-Lapu yesterday danced to the groove of modern medley songs to celebrate Correctional Consciousness Week.

The performances of the inmates from the female dormitories of Cebu City Jail, Mandaue City Jail, and Lapu-Lapu City Jail were done in Cebu City Jail. These were witnessed by the families of the inmates.

Each of the three teams was composed of 20 members. The Lapu-Lapu City Jail contingent was named Island Angel Dancers, Mandaue City Jail inmates called themselves Brattinila'z Brigade while Spero En Carcel for Cebu City Jail performers.

Each team was given 30 minutes to showcase their dancing talents along with the theme: Husay at Propesyonalismo, Tumutugon sa Hamon ng Pagbabago.

The event was organized to encourage inmates to turn a new leaf and leave their compromising way of living and to prepare them to be integrated back to the mainstream society.

Senior Inspector Stephanny Sotero, Cebu City Jail Female Dormitory warden, said dance activities are proven to be an effective diversion program for the inmates.

Freeman ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch:

"Nakikita po talaga natin effective po siya, ang iba wala pa sa katinuan, pero ng dahil sa dancing nailalaabas nila yung mga substance at naging diversion din para tigilan na nila ang drugs."

The finale of the event highlighted the participation of the three jail wardens in the performances of their respective inmates.

It was the first time that inmates from different jails were grouped together for the performances.

Lapu-Lapu City Jail Female Dormitory warden Inspector Eireen Alcomendras said their challenge was to secure a court order to allow them to travel to Cebu City.

"Mura’g ang challenge namo ang pag-secure og court order, kay three inmates were denied, later on we talked to the judge, that we have a week before the dance, if the three were not allowed then the dance will be affected," Alcomendras said.

For Mandaue City warden Senior Inspector Junabelle Roiles their challenge was the limited space to practice.

Joy Fernandez, 16, whose sibling was one of the performers for Spero En Carcel, was hopeful that the activity would help reform her sister who was charged with human trafficking.

"Siyempre makatabang sad na nila diri, aron sa sakto nga pagbuhat," she said.

The organizers hope to be able to stage the performances in the future that are already open to the public. (FREEMAN)