http://www.politico.eu/article/dutch-government-delays-ukraine-trade-deal-decision-mark-rutte-prime-minister/
57
5
The Netherlands' Prime Minister Mark Rutte | Martijn Beekman/AFP via Getty Images Dutch government delays Ukraine trade deal decision Mark Rutte says he is confident that a deal can be struck.

The Dutch government on Monday delayed a decision on whether to back an EU trade deal with Ukraine or support the result of a public referendum that rejected it.

Prime Minister Mark Rutte wrote to MPs to say that he needed more time to persuade opposition parties to back the deal but that he hoped an agreement with Brussels could be reached at the next summit of EU leaders, on December 15-16. Rutte and his cabinet are in favor of the deal, but it was rejected by Dutch voters in a non-binding referendum in April.

“The government will continue negotiations in Brussels to come to a legal binding solution that justifies the main concerns brought forward by the public in the debate about the Ukraine referendum,” Rutte’s letter said. He had been told by parliament to give an update on the state of play before November 1.

The deal, which strengthens trade ties between the EU and Kiev, has been approved by all EU member countries. But it went to a referendum after an anti-EU group collected enough signatures to force a public vote.

Ignoring their wishes would be a risky move for Rutte ahead of national elections in March 2017. But he suggested that he could reassure worried citizens that the deal is not a step towards Ukrainian membership of the EU and that it does not give Ukrainians access to the EU job market.

Rutte wrote in a post on Facebook that finding a solution could be “a tiring process.”

“It takes time, more than people would have wanted,” he wrote.

The prime minister last week made an impassioned plea to opposition parties to support ratification of the agreement. “The Netherlands will make a massive mistake if they derail the process,” Rutte said.

Frans Timmermans, the Dutch member of the European Commission, on Saturday said a “non-binding referendum does not prevent MPs to make a decision on their own.”