http://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-3773091/The-Bachelor-2016-s-Tiffany-Scanlon-defends-recent-naked-photoshoot-Megan-Marx-deleted-snaps-Instagram.html
52
5
They shared a series of bizarre nude photos to their social media accounts last week before deleting them off Instagram just days later.

And on Sunday, The Bachelor's Tiffany Scanlon took to the picture-sharing application to defend her naked photoshoot with fellow contestant Megan Marx.

Posting an image of herself sunbaking on a blow-up floaty, she wrote: 'For Love or Fame? I feel insulted I even have to defend myself.

Scroll down for video

No shame: The Bachelor's Tiffany Scanlon took to Instagram on Sunday to defend her recent nude photoshoot with Megan Marx, days after they deleted the images from social media

'I went with an open mind and an open heart, of 25 women, 1 will find love, are the rest of us meant to crawl into a cave & hide?

'It just so happens that I met a kindred spirit who also likes to take risks, push boundaries, question convention, is liberal, open minded, free thinking and creative.'

Tiffany continued: 'In regards to the recent images that we posted and removed, I did not have a "sudden change of heart", I am not ashamed, I am not sorry and I look forward to being able to post them back up eventually.

No worries: Posting an image of herself on a blow-up floaty, she wrote: 'For Love or Fame? I feel insulted I even have to defend myself...I'm tired of people making assumptions on my behalf'

Up front: Tiffany continued: 'In regards to the recent images that we posted and removed, I did not have a "sudden change of heart", I am not ashamed, I am not sorry'

'If you look back through my Instagram (and Megan's) you will realise these photos are not out of character for either of us.

'I'm tired of people making assumptions and speaking on my behalf so I hope this clears some things up, if indeed it is allowed to stay up ✌,' she concluded her post.

Days earlier, the two blonde beauties mysteriously deleted the headline-making pictures from their accounts.

The array of removed images included snaps of the blonde exhibitionists posing topless while sharing a plate of spaghetti.

Second thoughts? Days earlier, the two blonde beauties mysteriously deleted the headline-making pictures from their accounts

Parody: Will McMahon and Woody Whitelaw of radio show Hit929 recreated the scene and also shared it to social media

In the photos, which appear to have been inspired by the famous pasta-eating scene in Disney's Lady And The Tramp, the bronzed babes posed in their underwear while slurping down the same piece of spaghetti.

Megan had previously uploaded the racy image to her Instagram account, while remarking nonchalantly in the caption: 'The spaghetti was fairly good tonight.'

Another risqué snap deleted by Megan depicted her and Tiffany giggling while gulping down single strands of spaghetti.

In the buff! Megan and Tiffany have also erased photos of themselves posing naked aside from their sneakers as they posed on wooden chairs in the Chapman Valley, Western Australia

At the time, Tiffany also shared a parodied version of her and Megan's controversial photo, in which Will McMahon and Woody Whitelawof radio show Hit929 recreated the scene.

The image has since been deleted from Tiffany's page.

Megan and Tiffany have also erased recent photos of themselves posing naked aside from their sneakers as they posed on wooden chairs in the Chapman Valley, Western Australia.

Just hanging out: The girls managed to hide their modesty as they posed in the extremely provocative images, thanks to the use of clever angles and strategic posing

Damning post: Adding to the list of deleted posts is an update that Megan shared, which she compares Richie to a 'Barbie boyfriend' while claiming that The Bachelor is a 'prison'

Adding to the list of deleted social media posts is an Instagram update that Megan shared on Wednesday, in which she compared Richie Strahan to a 'Barbie boyfriend' while claiming that The Bachelor was like a 'prison'.

The sassy stunner posted an image of herself enjoying a date with Richie, taken during her time in The Bachelor, accompanied with the caption: 'When I had long hair and a barbie boyfriend. Ohhhh how life changes. Hahaha.'

Adding insult to injury, Megan also tagged her location as being: 'Bachelor Prison', before promptly deleting the entire post less than a day later.