http://usa.onlinenigeria.com/news/156405-ministers-promised-to-protect-nissan-from-brexit-costs-in-last-ditch-letter.html
57
5
MPs demand Clark appears before key committee to explain if taxpayers' money was offered to Nissan

But now No 10 is facing calls to reveal what it offered car maker to stay

Business Secretary Greg Clark flew to Japan with letter reassuring Nissan that Britain will 'remain competitive' after Brexit

By Matt Dathan, Political Correspondent For Mailonline

Published: 04:22 EST, 28 October 2016 | Updated: 05:27 EST, 28 October 2016

Ministers persuaded Nissan to stay in the UK after sending a last-ditch letter promising to protect the company from the impact of Brexit, it emerged today.

But No 10 are now facing calls to reveal details of the assurances that persuaded the car marker to announce yesterday it will stay in Sunderland despite warnings that it could shift production abroad because of Britain's decision to leave the EU.

MPs warned that 'secret deals behind closed doors' would damage business confidence in the UK and ministers are facing questions over whether taxpayers' money was promised to help protect Nissan jobs.

Business Secretary Greg Clark flew to Japan to meet Nissan's board and eventually issued the company with a letter containing a commitment to ensuring the firm's operations in the UK 'remain competitive' after we leave the EU.

Business Secretary Greg Clark 9pictured on Question Time last night) is understood to have flown to Japan with a letter to Nissan's board containing a commitment to ensuring the firm's operations in the UK 'remain competitive' after we leave the EU

The agreement in the letter included assurance from the Government that the UK 'is as attractive tomorrow as it is today,' sources told The Times.

But Mr Clark denied the Government had offered financial sweeteners to convince Nissan to stay at its plant in Sunderland, telling Question Time viewers last night: 'There's no cheque book. I don't have a cheque book.'

Former prime minister Tony Blair said Nissan must have been given 'very strong assurances' on access to the EU's single market before making the decision to stay.

Labour is demanding to know what specific assurances were given to Nissan to persuade it to stay.

Jeremy Corbyn said: 'It must be made public, because it is public money that will be used if there are any inducements that have been offered and, quite obviously, if you are offering big inducements to one industry or one manufacturer, then all the others will quite reasonably say ''Well, what about us?''

The Nissan plant in Sunderland produces the flagship Qashqai, but the company had suggested it was rethinking its investment after the Brexit vote

Nissan's announcement that it is staying in the UK came after Theresa May met Nissan boss Carlos Ghosn for talks earlier this month

Commons Business committee chair Iain Wright demanded Mr Clark appear before MPs to give evidence on allegations the Government offered a sweetheart deal.

He told the Today programme: 'On the one hand, it's taxpayers' money, and, I think, we would need to know.

CANADA DEAL IS BACK ON The EU faced embarrasment last night despite salvaging its trade deal with Canada. After days of crisis talks, Belgium announced that the Wallonia region of 3.5million people had finally agreed to stop blocking the landmark agreement. But the breakthrough was too late for Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau, who had been due to sign off the agreement in Brussels yesterday but cancelled the visit hours earlier. Critics last night warned that even though the deal has been rescued, the EU's reputation had been damaged. Tory MEP Emma McClarkin said: 'The credibility of the EU on global trade deals is in tatters following this debacle. 'Other countries will now ask whether it is worth the time and effort conducting such deals with the EU.' Wallonia had delayed support for the trade deal over concerns it would affect farming. However, the shambles could demonstrate to the rest of the world how Britain could be a more agile partner than the EU after Brexit.

'And, on the other, it could be commercial confidence as well. But, in terms of transparency, in respect of how government will intervene and provide that reassurance and support, I do think that's important.'

It also emerged today that the Government sent a letter to businesses including Nissan to 'pull out all the stop's after Brexit.

The letter was sent before the EU referendum in a bid to reassure firms that the Government would 'support competitiveness' if Britain leaves the EU, according to ITV News.

It gives another clue as to how ministers are persuading businesses to stay in the UK in the wake of June's vote to cut ties with Brussels.

Yesterday's key announcement from Nissan related to their new Qashqai and X-Trail models, which it said will be built at its Sunderland plant.

It secures the plants future and safeguards 7,000 jobs.

Pressed on what assurances the Government gave Nissan over Britain's future with the EU, where 80 per cent of Nissan's exports from its Sunderland plant go, Mr Clark told the BBC:

'We have had, obviously, as you might imagine, lots of communication between us, but actually what it rests on is a very strong mutual confidence.'

He later told the Question Time audience: 'The important thing is that they know this is a country in which they can have confidence they can invest. That was the assurance and the understanding they had, and they have invested their money.'

Nissan, whose boss Carlos Ghosn held talks with Theresa May this month, said it had decided to go ahead after receiving 'support and assurances' from the Government.

But both sides flatly denied that ministers had agreed to directly subsidise Nissan in the event of it facing tariffs on exports after Brexit.

In a second boost for Britain's car industry, Toyota also confirmed it will not shift production because of the referendum result.

Former prime minister Tony Blair (pictured) said Nissan must have been given 'very strong assurances' on access to the EU's single market before making the decision to stay

Mrs May described it as 'fantastic news for the UK', adding: 'It is a recognition that the Government is committed to creating and supporting the right conditions for the automotive industry so it continues to grow.

'This vote of confidence shows Britain is open for business and that we remain an outward-looking, world-leading nation.'

SHOPPERS STILL CONFIDENT AFTER BREXIT VOTE Retail sales grew at their fastest pace in over a year as shoppers pounded the high street for autumn clothes after an unseasonably warm end to the summer. A monthly CBI survey of 126 firms showed above-average sales for the time of year, with 40 per cent of retailers reporting increased sales volumes in October on a year ago and 19 per cent saying they were down. The figures gave a balance of +21 per cent, well above expectations of +7 per cent and an improvement on the previous month's balance of -8 per cent. The expected sales balance for November also rose sharply to +21 per cent from +7 per cent, a level last seen in December, and orders placed with suppliers were the strongest since March. CBI chief economist Rain Newton-Smith said: 'With our Indian Summer now a distant memory, shoppers have been pounding the high street, with sales of clothing and other retailers outpacing expectations.' But the CBI warned that the slide in the pound since Britain voted to leave the EU was likely to push up prices next year, affecting consumer spending power.

Labour gave a muted response to the news. Jeremy Corbyn said he was 'pleased' jobs would be staying in the UK, but urged ministers to publish details of any deal with Nissan. He added: 'It must be made public, because it is public money that will be used if there are any inducements that have been offered and ... if you are offering big inducements to one industry or one manufacturer, then all the others will quite reasonably say, 'Well, what about us?'

The Reuters news agency reported a Nissan source as saying the firm had received a 'written commitment of extra support in the event that Brexit reduces the competitiveness of its Sunderland plant'.

But Business Secretary Greg Clark, who held talks with Nissan this month, insisted financial compensation over tariffs was not offered.

He said: 'There is no question of financial compensation over tariffs because we have said that ... we are going to maintain the competitiveness of the sector, and we are going to get the best deal possible.'

Pressed on whether written assurances on tariffs had been given, Mr Clark said: 'What it rests on is very a strong mutual confidence.'

Colin Lawther, Nissan's senior vice president for manufacturing in Europe, also said there was 'no special deal for Nissan'.

He said Brexit had created a 'large headwind' for the firm but it was satisfied with the assurances it had received on the type of Brexit deal being pursued and by Mrs May's commitment to keeping the UK car industry 'competitive'.

Speaking from Tokyo, Toyota's executive vice president Didier Leroy also said he had 'trust in the UK government that it will offer fair treatment' for all companies when negotiating agreements to mitigate the impact of Brexit.

Jeremy Corbyn demanded the Government makes public what assurances it gave Nissan