http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/uber-drivers-win-landmark-legal-9146598
51
5
A landmark legal ruling says private hire firm Uber acted unlawfully by denying drivers basic workers’ rights of a minimum wage, holiday pay and breaks.

The decision is a massive blow against so-called ‘bogus self-employment’ and was heralded as a major victory for workers last night.

And it could open the floodgates to claims from thousands of people working for firms using similar business models, such as Deliveroo, as well as other Uber drivers.

Two drivers launched their case in July, arguing that Uber, which allows users to book and pay for a taxi by smartphone, was acting unlawfully by not providing certain employment rights.

The London employment tribunal ruling yesterday means drivers working the ride-hailing app will now be entitled to holiday pay, paid rest breaks and the National Minimum Wage.

Lawyers close to the case said Uber could look to meet any additional costs by increasing the amount of fare it kept as commission, which would mean higher fares.

The GMB union, which brought the case, described the decision as a “monumental victory” for some 40,000 drivers in England and Wales.

But San Francisco-based Uber, which is valued at £48 billion, said it would appeal against the ruling, It had argued that its drivers were not employees but self-employed contractors.

The TUC said the case had exposed the “dark side” of the UK’s labour market and the “gig economy” where people work for multiple employers without having a fixed contract.

Reuters Frances O'Grady, general secretary of TUC, Uber is 'tip of the iceberg'

Frances O’Grady, TUC general secretary, said: “For many workers the gig economy is a rigged economy, where bosses can get out of paying the minimum wage and providing basics like paid holidays and rest breaks.

“What is happening at Uber is just the tip of the iceberg.

“Lots of people are now trapped in insecure jobs, with low pay and no voice at work. We need the government to get tough on sham self-employment.”

The case centred on whether drivers with the firm, where passengers hail cars using an app, are employees.

Uber designates its drivers as self-employed workers, claiming it is a technology company rather than a taxi firm, and says the arrangements allow people to be their own boss and work flexibly.

But drivers argue they are actual employees of the organisation, rather than independent operators running their own businesses.

Maria Ludkin, GMB’s legal director, said:”This is a monumental victory that will have a hugely positive impact on over 30,000 drivers in London and across England and Wales and for thousands more in other industries where bogus self-employment is rife.

“Uber drivers and other directed workers do have legal rights at work. The question for them now is how those rights are enforced in practice.

“This loophole that has allowed unscrupulous employers to avoid employment rights, sick pay and minimum wage for their staff and costing the government millions in lost tax revenue will now be closed.

“Uber drivers and thousands of others caught in the bogus self-employment trap will now enjoy the same rights as employees.

“This outcome will be good for passengers too. Properly rewarded drivers are the same side of the coin as drivers who are properly licensed and driving well maintained and insured vehicles.

“GMB will be getting on with the business of campaigning and recruiting at Uber to ensure our members’ rights are respected.”

“GMB puts employers on notice that we are reviewing similar contracts masquerading as bogus self employment, particularly prevalent in the so-called ‘gig economy’.

“This is old-fashioned exploitation under newfangled jargon, but the law will force you to pay GMB members what they are rightfully due.”

The tribunal ruled that Uber should pay the drivers the minimum wage of £7.20 and said that working hours began from the moment most drivers logged into the app rather than just per ride.

Steve McNamara, General Secretary of the Licensed Taxi Drivers Association said:“We have all heard the stories about Uber drivers struggling to make ends meet, earning well below minimum wage and working excessive hours, which is not only damaging for drivers but has implications for thesafety of passengers and other road users.

“We therefore welcome this decision and hope that it will put an end to such exploitation. It is time for Uber to accept its responsibilities as a PHV operator and to play by the rules, not just treating its workers fairly but also accepting and abiding by regulation and paying its fair share of tax.”

Research by Citizens Advice has suggested that as many as 460,000 people could be falsely classified as self-employed, at a cost of up to £314m a year in lost tax and employer national insurance contributions.