http://dailypost.in/punjab/power-hungry-capt-playing-gimmicks-name-kisan-yatra-bikram-majithia/
10
1
Majitha: Punjab Revenue and Public Relations Minister Bikram Singh Majitha today termed Captain Amrinder Singh as a big dramatist who is playing gimmicks in the name of Kisan Yatra for the lust of Power. Majithia said

that Congress has been wiped out in the whole country and is taking its last breaths. He also said that after the Punjab Vidhan Sabha elections, Congress would completely evaporate from the political scene in the country.

Interacting with the Media persons after inaugurating the 66 KV Power Grid established with Rs 4.5 Crore at village Sohian Kalan, Majithia said that Captain is trying to get political mileage with fake promises such as filling debit wave Off forms. He said that farmers of Punjab are very well aware of Anti Farmer policies of Congress and Captain Amrinder Singh, who imposed electricity bills of tube wells on the farmers immediately after gaining power in 2002.

He further said that Captain does not know the ground realities in Punjab in the case of paddy procurement. He said that Captain tried to play politics by visiting grain markets but he had to return empty handed when he found the farmers satisfied with procurement process and arrangements made by the Punjab Government.

Majithia said that Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal is fighting battles to save farmers at every front. He further said that in last 10 years Punjab Government has provided free electricity of Rs 35000 crores to the farmers for irrigation. “Punjab Government is also providing free electricity upto 200 Units to the Schedule Castes /poor and cheapest electricity to the traders in the country”, added Majithia.

Mr. Majithia said that in last nine years Rs. 180 Crore have been spent for better supply and transmission of electricity in the Majitha constituency. He also disclosed that 9 Power Grids and 25 thousand Transformers have been installed in the Majitha Constituency for strengthening power infrastructure. He also informed that with these sincere efforts, every Dhani/Dera has been connected with the 24 hour power supply.

Majithia thanked Punjab State Power Corporation and Power Transmission officials for installing Sohian Kalan 66 KV Power Station within record time of just 5 Months which will be beneficial for the surrounding many villages of the area.

Other prominent persons present on the occasion included Mr. K.L. Sharma Director Power Corporation, Mr. Jageet Singh Suchu Chief Engineer Border Zone, Mr. Sikander Singh Chief Engineer, Mr. Talbir Singh Gill, Major Shivi, Prof. Sarcahnd Singh Media Advisor and other prominent personalities of the area.