http://leadership.ng/news/548010/leadership-bags-2-best-newspaper-awards
51
5
The Nigerian Women of Integrity, an international non-governmental organisation has named LEADERSHIP Newspapers Group limited the Best Newspaper for the Year 2016. It also conferred an Ambassador of Integrity Award on the media organisation for its integrity and truth-based reportage.

This is even as the Nigeria Society of Engineers (NSE) has conferred on the Abuja based national daily the 2016 edition of its Corporate Membership Award.

According to the Nigerian Women of Integrity, LEADERSHIP Newspapers Group will receive the award alongside other individuals at the organisation’s Awards Night scheduled to hold today.

Speaking when the NGO’s paid a courtesy call on the paper at its corporate head office in Abuja, the Northern Coordinator of the NGO, Victoria Ocheja said, with the awards, the organisation identifies people who contribute positively to the society, and recognises those who fight for the rights of women and the integrity of the nation. “We believe that the good work carried out by LEADERSHIP Newspapers Group should be awarded”, she added.

Receiving the award from the group, Group Managing Director (GMD), Dr. Cletus Akwaya commended the ideals and activities of the organization, even as he reaffirmed LEADERSHIP Newspapers’ dedication to promoting integrity and truthful reporting, qualities which attracted the award.

Highlighting the efforts of the newspaper in championing women and women affairs in its weekly publications, Akwaya declared that the gender sensitive medium is dedicated to empowering Nigerians via quality information dissemination.

“We understand some of the challenges faced by women because we are involved. We are born by women, married to women and parents to females. We are here to give voice to the voiceless, to empower the powerless and there is no better way to empower men or women than providing them with quality information. On that score, we have a meeting point with the core values of Nigerian Women of Integrity”, Akwaya said.

Nigerian Women of Integrity was founded in 2014 by Engineer Cletus Amaraegbu. Located in all 36 states of the federation, and with members abroad in the United States of America, Canada and Ghana, the organization empowers women and youths, especially those devoted to carrying out their businesses and duties with integrity.

The NGO is global and is funded through individual members’ donations. “We look out for people of high moral with reputable character and prestige. We look out for people who are champions of women’s dignity,” added FCT Coordinator, Apollonia Eze-Adele.

Meanwhile, the Nigeria Society of Engineers (NSE) has conferred on LEADERSHIP Newspapers Group limited the 2016 edition of its Corporate Membership Award.

The honour was bestowed on the media organisation on Thursday night by the Deputy President of NSE, Engr. Adekunle Mokolu alongside Nigeria Television Authority (NTA) in Abuja on Friday.

The NSE said the ward conferred on the national daily was informed by its active role in coverage, propagating and uplifting of the activities of the engineering profession.

The Award/Dinner nite was part of activities lined up to mark the end of 2016 Engineering Week and Annual General Meeting (AGM) organised by the Nigeria Society of Engineers (NSE ), Abuja branch, with the theme, ‘Revamping the Nigerian Manufacturing Sector: Great Responsibility for Engineers’.

Receiving the award in Abuja yesterday, the Divisional Director of LEADERSHIP Hausa, Mallam Al-Amin Ciroma thanked the Society for the honour bestowed on LEADERSHIP Newspapers Group Limited, describing it as a well deserved honour.

He pledged the continued support of LEADERSHIP Newspapers Group Limited in

providing adequate publicity by covering and publisihing the activities of the Society.

In his address, the outgoing Chairman, Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE), Abuja branch, Engr. Yakubu Ali Garba thanked the management of LEADERSHIP Newspapers Group Limited for the active coverage of events since its official visit to the paper’s headquarters in Abuja.

He maintained that he had uplifted the practice of engineering during his tenure as the chairman, even as he expressed optimism that his successor would leverage on his achievements.

Enumerating his achievements, the chairman emphasised that the immediate past Executive members visited Ministries, Department and Agencies to educate them on the need to accommodate more engineers in decision making.

He further stated that young engineers were trained on the rudiments of the professional body in line with global best practises during his tenure.

Garba said the president of NSE, Engr. Oliver Tagbo Anyaeji had instructed that a committee should be constituted to extract all the recommendations that was reached during the 2016 Engineering Week and annual general lecture and sent to the federal government for onward implementation.

He noted that they would also inform the federal government of the willingness of engineers to help in resolving some of the problems in the power sector, adding that the essence of the engineering week was to draw the attention of the public to the needs and plights of Nigerian engineer.