http://nation.com.pk/national/07-Sep-2016/senate-pays-homage-to-1965-war-martyrs
57
5
ISLAMABAD - The Upper House of the Parliament yesterday paid homage to the martyrs of September 6, 1965 war by adopting unanimous resolution.



The resolution was moved by the Leader of the House in the Senate, Raja Zafarul Haq, in which members expressed acknowledgment of commitment and determination of Pakistan army that time for the safety and solidarity of Pakistan.



The house through the resolution said that the Indian army crossed the international borders of Pakistan on September 6, 1965, but that time the entire nation was united and the spirit was unprecedented.



The biggest lesson learnt from the event was a united nation can never be defeated, the resolution said.

It added Kashmiris in Indian Occupied Kashmir were struggling for their right of self-determination.



The resolution said that the complete elimination of terrorism from the country will lead to retaining economic self-sufficiency.



Later, participating in the debate to pay homage to the martyred of 1965 war, Senator Mashhadi said the Indian Army Chief, Gen.

J.

N.

Chaudhry was so confident of defeating the Pakistani troops guarding the area and capturing Lahore that he announced to all that he would have a large peg of whisky at the Lahore Gymkhana Club in the evening of the September 6.



He, however, said that India’s attack against Lahore was held and beaten back with heavy losses to the attackers.

The Pakistan Army units defending on the ground, supported by the Pakistan Air Force were able to blunt the Indian offensive and roll it back.



He said on September 6, 1965 not just our brave soldiers but also the whole nation was united to defend our home land and defeated the Indian army and made them retrieve on all fronts

He prayed that may Allah Almighty give us strength, courage and determination to protect and safeguard at all costs, the freedom and honour of our homeland.



Senator Tahir Hussain Mashhadi said on that day, Pakistan army fought with great determination and courage and repulsing enemy’s attack with considerable losses to the Indians.



He said that as compared to Indian army the Pakistani force was few in numbers but the motivation of the soldiers of Pakistan was touching sky, that was the reason that Pakistan defeated India, he added.



He said September 6, 1965 attack was the coward attack of India on Pakistan but India’s expectations were hurt when it received strong setback from Pakistan force.



Senator Lt Gen (R) Salahuddin Tarmazi said that September 6th is one of the most important events of Pakistan’s history as on September 6, 1965, Indian army crossed the borders of Pakistan.



He said that during the 1965 war every citizen of the country was firmly united and was behind the Pakistan army.

The national priorities were clear and unambiguous in those days as there was complete unity and unstinted support to the armed forces.

