http://www.philstar.com/cebu-news/2016/09/08/1621645/cebu-city-bar-owners-back-anti-drug-drive
57
5
CEBU, Philippines - Over a hundred club and bar owners in Cebu City have pledged to support the anti-drug campaign of the government by keeping their establishment "drug-free."

They signed an undertaking stipulating this pledge during a meeting with Cebu City police officials yesterday.

Stipulated in the undertaking is the owners' commitment to provide police information on anyone selling drugs under their roof, especially "rave drugs" such as Ecstacy, one of the most common recreational drug used at dance parties.

"That our establishment will fully assist and cooperate in the investigation of the PNP (Philippine National Police) on any incident or police operations that may arise within our premises area of business operation," reads part of the memorandum.

They also committed to assist the police by providing video footages and photos of incidents or police operations involving the establishment and by allowing their employees to serve as witnesses.

Police personnel conducting surveillance are already authorized to enter the establishments for surveillance purposes.

Freeman ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch:

"Our establishment will adhere and comply with the existing laws and regulations provided for the security deployment during the conduct of concerts, music festivals, and other similar gatherings or activities involving large number of crowd," the owners added.

They agreed that failure to comply with the undertaking can be a ground for the city to revoke their business permit and the filing of criminal complaints against them.

CPPO Director Joel Doria said his office will be fielding personnel any time to conduct surveillance.

He explained that the initiative was meant to prevent proliferation of illegal drugs in party venues and incidents similar to what happened during a concert in Pasay City last May where five persons died allegedly from an overdose of rave drugs.

Party organizers allegedly refused responding police investigators from entering the area.

Doria was the chief of the Pasay City Police when the incident transpired but contended he was on leave at that time.

Doria was an awardee for his anti-drugs accomplishments during his stint in Pasay City police.

In a separate interview, Nixon "Jojo" Dizon, owner of Yu Restobar, welcomed the initiative and expressed his commitment to support the fight against illegal drugs. He said they always want to maintain a drug-free establishment and look after the safety of customers.

He, however, is not discounting that drug activities are present inside bars without the owner's knowledge.

He said he is also open to a drug test among his personnel, managers included.

"Mas maayo pod di sila pahibaw-on ang mga managers kun naay drug test," he added.

He admitted some of his employees have been found positive of drug use during one of the screenings the establishment conducted.

Doria said they sent 100 invitation letters to owners but the attendance even went beyond the number as spa centers also joined the meeting yesterday and signified support for the drive. (FREEMAN)