http://nation.com.pk/national/27-Aug-2016/rs110b-nawazcare-plan-unveiled
51
5
ISLAMABAD - To bring about radical changes in the overall healthcare infrastructure, Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif yesterday gave formal approval to the construction of 39 state-of-the-art hospitals across the country on war footing.



Nawaz Sharif was given a comprehensive briefing on ‘Prime Minister’s Initiative to Improve Healthcare Infrastructure’ across the length and breadth of the country at the PM House.

He was given an overview of the existing healthcare infrastructure in the country in the context of population-hospital bed ratio and availability of inpatient care facility.

The prime minister approved construction of three hospitals in Islamabad with a capacity of 600 beds each, 10 500-bed and 20 250-bed hospitals across the country.



The prime minister also directed the authorities to restart work on the obstetrics and gynaecology hospital in Rawalpindi that had been stopped in 2011 due to devolution.

The prime minister directed the health ministry to complete the structure of this hospital.

Allocation of funds for completing the hospital within 18 months was also approved by the prime minister.



Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif also approved, in principle, proposed sites for two more hospitals in the federal capital.

In addition, Nawaz Sharif ordered completion of four to five 100-bed hospitals in AJK and Gilgit-Baltistan.

Total cost on the construction of these 39 hospitals will be Rs 110 billion, the meeting was informed.



The prime minister said he would personally monitor the progress on hospitals in Islamabad, Rawalpindi and other parts of the country.

It must be ensured that poverty ranking, remoteness, burden of diseases, presence of public and private hospitals, poor health indicators in the areas of Balochistan, interior Sindh, South Punjab, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Fata, AJK and Gilgit Baltistan are given top priority while finalising the sites for construction of the hospitals, the prime minister asseerted.



Majority of these hospitals must be completed within next 18 months according to the criteria, the prime minister further directed.

He affirmed the Prime Minister’s Office and the Ministry of Finance would jointly allocate funds for construction of these hospitals.



The meeting was briefed that a healthcare infrastructure company would be established to review the day-to-day progress on the execution of this initiative.

The prime minister was told that services of globally acknowledged designing consultants would be hired for designing these hospitals to construct them on modern lines.



Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif said the government was simultaneously targeting poverty and diseases through infrastructure development and establishment of healthcare infrastructure across the length and breadth of the country.

“By the grace of Almighty Allah, we are consolidating the gains of economic growth, energy self-sufficiency and infrastructure development for alleviating poverty and reducing unemployment and addressing the long neglected healthcare infrastructure in the country to eliminate the woes of disease-stricken masses.

It is the responsibility of the government to ensure healthy living for the citizens so that they could contribute to the development and prosperity of the country without any hindrance,” the prime minister stated.

