http://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-3783796/The-Block-s-Carleen-Dan-win-10-000-getting-prize-master-bathroom-handyman-broke-tears-ensuite-got-panned.html
51
5
They've had a number of set backs on The Block including getting slammed by judges for their rooms, despite being experienced renovators.

But on Sunday's episode of the show, Dan, 55, and Carleen, 52, finally had a win.

The pair claimed the top score for their master bathroom from the judges, winning a whopping $10,000 cash.

Scroll down for video

Success: Dan, 55, and Carleen, 52, finally had a win on The Block on Sunday, pocketing $10,000 for their bathroom

Hairdresser Carleen made light of the situation and afterwards joked: 'I love it, I love the smell of money!'

Dan joked to camera, 'she'll spend it in five minutes.'

The pair also won a night away from The Block thanks to winning.

They did it: In the judges feedback, Shaynna Blaze said she was impressed after they 'slammed' them last week

About their win, Carleen added: 'This makes you stop second guessing yourself too.'

In the judges feedback, Shaynna Blaze said she was impressed after they 'slammed' them last week.

'They've shown us,' she said.

Darren Palmer meanwhile said they started a new trend, which he called 'the new tradition.'

Darren said their bathroom was 'on trend with Milan' and was perfect in styling.

Impressive: Darren Palmer meanwhile said they started a new trend, which he called 'the new tradition'

Shaynna and Neale agreed it was their styling, with Neale loving the tiles and feel of the room.

The couple earned a total of 29 points, narrowly beating Julia and Sasha who were on 28.5 points.

Karlie and Will scored 27 points, while Andy and Ben scored 19.5 points and Kim and Chris coming last on 19 points.

The win for Carleen and Dan came after last their master ensuite was panned by the judges last month and Dan broke to tears.

Tough: The win for Carleen and Dan came after last their master ensuite was panned by the judges last month and Dan broke to tears

The judges weren't impressed: 'I'm not an emotional bloke, but this brings out everything in you,' Dan said to camera after the bad review for their ensuite (pictured)

'I'm not an emotional bloke, but this brings out everything in you,' Dan said to camera after the bad review.

Neale Whitaker also could not get past what he referred to as a tacky plate, with the text, 'Drink Champagne and Dance All Night'.

'This really offends me. I think it's so cheap, before spotting a candle emblazoned with the text, 'I love the s**t out of you'.

'That is probably one of the worst things', he added.

Meanwhile last week Neale likened their guest bedroom a '$2 shop.'

'I'm seriously ready to go home,' 52-year-old Carleen shared to the camera after their disastrous room reveal.