http://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-3887980/Georgia-Love-recalls-moment-beau-Lee-Elliott-perked-ill-mother-visiting-palliative-care-following-Bachelorette-Australia-finale.html
51
5
They have been battling a range of mixed emotions over the last week.

Now, Bachelorette Georgia Love has opened up about the first time she introduced her beau Lee Elliott to her mum, Belinda by her hospital bedside.

Speaking to TV Week magazine, the 28-year-old gushed about witnessing her reality TV boyfriend 'perk up' her ill mother, who is currently battling aggressive pancreatic in palliative care.

Scroll down for video

Support: Bachelorette Georgia Love has gushed about witnessing her beau Lee Elliott 'perk up' her ill mother Belinda, who is currently battling aggressive pancreatic in palliative care

'It was amazing to see how much he perked her up,' she told, adding: 'She was sitting up talking and laughing with him, which she hadn't been able to do all day.

'It was obviously an awful place and reason to be meeting.'

Last week, Lee revealed to the Daily Telegraph, Georgia's mother gave him the seal of approval from her hospital bed after the finale aired on Thursday evening.

Thankful: The 28-year-old told: 'It was amazing to see how much he perked her up. She was sitting up talking and laughing with him, which she hadn't been able to do all day'

After Belinda told him she didn't think he'd be picked, Lee said: 'I was like, 'That doesn't sound good!'

But he added, she said, 'No, you were my favourite and that's why I didn't think Georgia would choose you.'

He also took to social media and said the occasion of revealing his relationship with Georgia was bitter sweet because of Belinda's cancer diagnosis.

'Words cannot express just how much I truly wish this was a very different post. Today is such a mix of emotions,' he wrote on Instagram.

Mixed emotions: Last week Lee took to Instagram and said the occasion of revealing his relationship with Georgia was bitter sweet because of Belinda's cancer diagnosis

'It's actually not possible for me to be any happier to finally tell the whole world that I have found my soul mate, my best friend and the love of my life in you Georgia.

'You are my everything and my world! But at the same time I could not be any more saddened by what you and your family are going through right now.

'It most certainly puts everything else into perspective and has only reiterated just how much I absolutely want to be there for you & be your rock as you have been mine today and always!'

Sadden: He explained: 'Words cannot express just how much I truly wish this was a very different post. Today is such a mix of emotions...I want to be there for you & be your rock'

He went on to say: 'I feel truly blessed to have finally been able to meet the absolutely extraordinary woman who is your mother.

'I can certainly now see where your strength, love for life, sense of humour and beauty both inside & out come from!,' he finished.

Georgia gushed about Lee's support during an interview with KIIS FM's Kyle & Jackie O Show last week.

'The only thing I'm really thankful for is that I've finally got Lee to be by my side through all of this because it's been extremely difficult going through all this,' she told.

Tough: Network 10 confirmed last week that Belinda had been admitted to palliative care after she received chemotherapy while Georgia filmed season two of The Bachelorette

'Just having him on the other end of the phone...We've got a lot of difficult times ahead.'

Network 10 confirmed to the Daily Telegraph last week that Belinda had been admitted to palliative care.

She was receiving chemotherapy while Georgia filmed season two of the popular reality series.