https://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2016/oct/30/sunderland-looks-to-city-of-culture-bid-to-reunite-post-brexit
51
5
The result of the EU referendum has galvanised remain voters in Sunderland around a bid to secure city of culture status in 2021, its campaign chief has said, heralding an opportunity to unite “disconnected and isolated” communities after the vote for Brexit.

Rebecca Ball, the director of Sunderland’s city of culture 2021 bid, said it was determined to correct the “one-sided” portrayal of Wearside as a “lost city” after the EU referendum on 23 June.

She said: “It feels like Brexit has made the 2021 bid more urgent. Brexit has galvanised us even more because it feels like there’s more of a need to spend that investment, bring people together and change the profile of the city.”

A resounding 61.3% of Sunderland’s voters chose to leave the European Union despite the possibility that tens of thousands of jobs would be at risk if Nissan, the north-east’s biggest private sector employer, abandoned its highly efficient plant in the city.



Last week, Nissan, which employs 6,000 people at its Washington plant and supports 27,000 more jobs in the local supply chain, pledged to stay in the UK after private assurances from the business secretary, Greg Clark.

Politicians and business leaders have been privately considering ways to bring the city together following the vote, including stepping up the city of culture bid that officially launched in September last year.

A city-wide survey by campaign officials found concerns among Sunderland voters about a “poverty of aspiration” among young people and that communities were “disconnected and isolated” by geography and ethnicity. It also found that people wanted to change the profile of the city.

Ball, who was previously the director of an arts programme in the region, said the city had been unfairly portrayed as a “lost city” in the wake of the Brexit vote.

“When Brexit happened there was a sense in which the city was in the limelight. Some of the reporting was very black and white and it really depicted a one sided story of Sunderland. It was a story of a lost city,” she said.

“But there’s a huge amount of energy and momentum around the city as well. You can’t allow yourself to get too disheartened – you have to get on with it. The 2021 bid wouldn’t be an empty project – it is about ambition and showing what we can achieve with some help.”

Julie Elliott, the Labour MP for Sunderland Central, said: “The 2021 city of culture bid gives us the opportunity to showcase everything that is great about Sunderland – our culture, community and creativity. It will bring a much-needed focus on the inventiveness of our people bringing investment and regeneration.”

The winner of the prize, which was established in 2009, is usually nominated to host major cultural events including the Turner prize, Brit awards, Man Booker prize and the Stirling prize. Derry-Londonderry was the inaugural winner of the award in 2013, with Hull taking the prize the following year.

The Scottish city of Perth is favourite with the bookmakers to win city of culture 2021, with odds of 3/1, ahead of Sunderland and Cardiff on 4/1. The other competing cities are Paisley, Coventry, Stoke on Trent, Milton Keynes, Hereford and Warrington.