http://www.express.co.uk/comment/expresscomment/726677/Heathrow-third-runway-infrastructure-Theresa-May-UK
51
5
GETTY Last week Prime Minister Theresa May gave her approval to building a third runway at Heathrow

Last week Prime Minister Theresa May gave her approval to building a third runway at the west London hub but only the hopelessly naïve believe that it will be operational by 2025 as planned. The decision will no doubt be challenged, probably going to a judicial review, which would severely delay the project. From what I hear, officials fear that by the time all the objections and legal hurdles have been cleared and the new runway built, Heathrow may need a fourth. Britain’s infrastructure is antiquated and getting worse by the day.

Although everyone agrees on the need to drag it into the 21st century, this is never going to happen unless we tackle the two problems that are holding back progress: namely Nimbys and dithering from poor quality, shortsighted officials. According to the World Economic Forum’s (WEF) global competitiveness rankings, the UK is at number 9 for infrastructure, which most people would regard as a good result and a sign that things are fine. They would be wrong.

In fact Britain is only at 24 in terms of quality of infrastructure in the WEF rankings Geoff Ho

Britain may have a lot of infrastructure, be it roads, rail networks, power stations, phone lines etc but the problem is the quality is declining rapidly. In fact Britain is only at 24 in terms of quality of infrastructure in the WEF rankings. If it is to thrive, especially in a post-Brexit world, we need urgently to build new homes, new transport links, new power plants, new mobile phone masts, new sewers, new flood defences and so on.

GETTY Heathrow and the 40-year third runway saga illustrates Britain's problem with infrastructure

Whether it is the expansion of Heathrow or the construction of a new high-speed rail network, one of the consistent enemies of infrastructure improvement over the decades is the Nimby: the resident who believes that absolutely nothing should be allowed to encroach on their land. Nimby, short for not in my back yard, is a term that was popularised in the UK in the 1980s by the then environment secretary Nicholas Ridley. Nimbys will always exist but we can limit their ability to derail infrastructure improvements by overhauling the planning system.

This needs to be streamlined so that decisions are made faster and, crucially, the right of appeal needs to be limited. Then developers and investors would have the confidence to devote time and money to infrastructure projects. A faster planning process would have the added benefit of reducing costs and improving delivery times, making Britain a much more attractive destination for such investment.

GETTY Heathrow may need a fourth runway, says Geoff Ho

I am not advocating silencing Nimbys or restricting their rights to protest. After all we live in a democracy and everyone has the right to be heard. But consultations take far too long in the UK, more than twice as long as in Europe, which increases the power of the Nimby to disrupt things.

By giving them so much time to rally opposition they can delay projects or indeed scupper them. The other factor holding Britain back is dithering and poor-quality decision making from ministers and officials. We need brighter minds than the ones we currently have to be making the infrastructure decisions.

Government approves plans for third runway at Heathrow Airport Fri, October 28, 2016 The third runway at Heathrow Airport could involve planes taking off from a "ramp" over the M25 motorway, the transport secretary says. Play slideshow Mike Kelley / SWNS.com 1 of 10 As ministers clear a third runway for takeoff at Heathrow a photographer has released a series of composite images showing the astonishing volume of air traffic coming from the world's busiest airports.

To that end the Government should boldly delegate such decisions and policy making to an independent, non-partisan agency as it has done with monetary policy and the Bank of England. Too many decisions get caught up in party politics, which is how we have ended up with a gigantic white elephant in the form of EDF’s nuclear power plant at Hinkley Point C. The reactor to be used is based on a design that has significant safety questions around it and the deal the Government struck with EDF and its Chinese partners will ensure that businesses and consumers pay well over the odds for electricity.