http://af.reuters.com/article/commoditiesNews/idAFFit975671
61
6
(The following statement was released by the rating agency) HONG KONG, October 10 (Fitch) Fitch Ratings has assigned China-based pork processor WH Group Limited (WH Group) a Long-Term Foreign-Currency Issuer Default Rating (IDR) of 'BBB+' and a senior unsecured rating of 'BBB+.' The Outlook for the IDR is Stable. WH Group's ratings are supported by the company's leading market position in both China and the U.S., stable and growing demand for pork and pork products, as well as the geographical diversification and synergies between the U.S. and China operations. WH Group's ratings are also supported by its healthy financial profile, as the company has reduced its leverage over the past two years. However, the ratings are constrained by the cyclicality and lower margins of the protein industry and the limited product diversification. KEY RATING DRIVERS Strength from Market Leadership: WH Group's China subsidiary, Shuanghui Development (Shuanghui), is the leading pork and packaged meat producer in the country and the "Shuanghui" brand is a household name in China. The China business is mainly driven by the packaged meat segment, where the company had 18.9% of the market by revenue in 2015. Its EBIT margin is in the high teens due to the strong brand and comprehensive distribution network. The US business, Smithfield, is the largest pork producer in the US. Smithfield's margins are relatively weak (low single-digit EBIT margins) due to a larger exposure to the upstream hog-rearing business, but this is mitigated by its fully integrated operations and strong distribution network. Geographical Diversification and Synergies: Fitch views WH Group's China and US businesses as complementary to each other. Smithfield started exporting a small amount of fresh pork to China in 2013 after it was acquired by WH Group. Pricing has been favourable for Smithfield and the move also has helped to reduce excess supply in the US. In addition, some parts of the pig, such as the innards, have little value in US but are commonly consumed in China. The China and US pork markets have different supply-demand dynamics, so the geographical diversification also helps to reduce earnings volatility on a consolidated basis. Strong, Stable Demand: Pork and pork products tend to enjoy stable demand with limited sensitivity to economic cycles. In addition, per capita meat and pork consumption in China is only half of that in Hong Kong and US, suggesting further room for demand growth as income levels rise. In the near term, the main growth opportunities are in Shuanghui's packaged meat segment, where Fitch expects high-single-digit revenue growth in the next few years, driven by demand for higher quality products. Healthy Financial Profile: WH Group's leverage was relatively high immediately after acquiring Smithfield. However, the company has substantially reduced its leverage over the past two years due to its strong FCF generation and an IPO in 2014. FFO-adjusted net leverage was a healthy 1.9x in 2015, and Fitch expects it to fall below 1.0x by the end of 2018. WH Group had ample liquidity at the end of 2015, with USD1.1bn in cash and USD397m in marketable securities, which are more than sufficient to cover its current borrowings of USD370m. Although Shuanghui is separately listed on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange, Fitch assesses WH Group on a consolidated basis as the company is able to access Shuanghui's cash flows via dividends. Shuanghui historically distributed approximately 90% of net profits as dividends. Sector Exposure Constrains Rating: WH Group's ratings are constrained by the cyclicality and lower margins of the protein industry. WH Group's exposure to a single protein also constrains the rating at the current level even though it is diversified across different countries. KEY ASSUMPTIONS Fitch's key assumptions within our rating case for the issuer include: - 5%-6% revenue growth in China and 2% revenue growth in US in 2016-18 - 9%-10% consolidated EBITDA margin in 2016-18 - Capex of USD400m-600m per year over 2016-18 - 30% dividend pay-out ratio RATING SENSITIVITIES Negative: Future developments that may, individually or collectively, lead to a downgrade include: - FFO-adjusted net leverage sustained above 2x - FCF margin sustained below 2% (end-2015: 3.5%) - EBITDA margin sustained below 8% - Sustained decline in revenue or market share in key markets Positive: No positive rating action is envisaged until the company significantly diversifies its products and/or geographical markets. Contact: Primary Analyst Yee Man Chin Director +852 2263 9696 Fitch (Hong Kong) Limited 19F, Man Yee Building 68 Des Voeux Road Central, Hong Kong Secondary Analyst Laura Long Analyst +86 21 5097 3019 Committee Chairperson Kalai Pillay Senior Director +65 6796 7221 Date of Relevant Rating Committee: 13 September 2016 Media Relations: Wai-Lun Wan, Hong Kong, Tel: +852 2263 9935, Email: wailun.wan@fitchratings.com. Additional information is available on www.fitchratings.com Applicable Criteria Corporate Rating Methodology - Including Short-Term Ratings and Parent and Subsidiary Linkage - Effective from 17 August 2015 to 27 September 2016 (pub. 17 Aug 2015) here Additional Disclosures Dodd-Frank Rating Information Disclosure Form here _id=1012915 Solicitation Status here Endorsement Policy here ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: here. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE. Copyright © 2016 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch's factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch's ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed. The information in this report is provided "as is" without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers. For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001