http://washpost.bloomberg.com/Story?docId=1376-OF951Q6JIJUU01-2BFGVII21I06AO02VN2JKFVG26
61
6
(Bloomberg) -- Atlantia SpA, the infrastructure company controlled by the Benetton family, plans to boost its earnings abroad by acquiring airport and highway assets outside Italy as part of Chief Executive Officer Giovanni Castellucci’s strategy to reduce the company’s dependence on its home market.

Atlantia, which owns Italy’s biggest toll-road company and Rome’s airports, is seeking to boost the percentage of its overseas earnings before interest, taxes, amortization and depreciation to 50 percent in 2020 from a current 25 percent, the Rome-based company said Thursday in a statement. Atlantia wants to boost revenue to 6.8 billion euros ($7.5 billion) in 2020 from the current 5.5 billion euros.

The Italian company targets average annual Ebitda growth of about 7 percent with dividends increasing 10 percent a year from 2016 to 2020. As part of its new strategy, Atlantia will restructure its business into four main units and separate its highway assets in Italy from those abroad.

As it seeks to diversify its portfolio, Atlantia plans to sell a minority stake in the Italian toll-road operator Autostrade per l’Italia SpA. The unit is being valued at about 15 billion euros in initial talks with potential buyers, people familiar with the matter have said.

Atlantia leads a partnership that agreed in June to buy 60 percent of France’s third-biggest airport, Nice-Cote d’Azur, for 1.2 billion euros. The company also signed a deal last month to acquire 21 percent of SAVE SpA, which runs the airport serving Venice, Italy.

Atlantia’s advisers are gathering initial interest from potential buyers of a holding in the highway unit, said the people, who asked not be named because the discussions are private. Infrastructure businesses are luring long-term investors, and the demand may drive Autostrade’s valuation even higher, the people said.

PSP Investments, Allianz SE, the Kuwait Investment Authority’s Wren House Infrastructure Management unit, Caisse de Depot & Placement du Quebec, Gingko Tree Investment and Macquarie Group are among suitors considering bidding for the asset, said one of the people. Representatives of PSP, Allianz, Macquarie and Gingko declined to comment, while spokesmen for KIA and Caisse de Depot & Placement didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.

--With assistance from Flavia Rotondi To contact the reporter on this story: Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at tebhardt@bloomberg.net. To contact the editors responsible for this story: Vidya Root at vroot@bloomberg.net, Dan Liefgreen, Tom Lavell

©2016 Bloomberg L.P.