http://www.dailymail.co.uk/money/mortgageshome/article-3748634/Eight-ten-homes-asking-price-July-says-NAEA.html
60
6
Eight in ten properties sold by estate agents last month went for less than the original asking price, the highest level for two years according to latest data from an industry body.

The eight per cent rise within one month could be a symptom of jitters in the housing market following the Brexit vote, the National Association of Estate Agents says.

The fall marks a 50 per cent drop in the number of homes selling for at least the asking price compared to January.

Price struggle? According to the NAEA, only two in 10 homes sold for asking price last month

Furthermore, the demand from buyers was at its lowest level since November 2013 and a third lower than July last year.

The number of house hunters registered per estate agency branch dropped to an average of 298, from 330 in June. In July 2015, this was at 462 per branch.

At the same time, the supply of houses available to buyers increased marginally, from 37 properties per branch in June, to 38 in July.

Just a third of estate agents reported no changes in the housing market since Brexit and claimed that everything is 'business as usual'.

The same number also stated that interest from foreign investors has remained the same.

The average estate agency sold eight homes in July, no change from the month before.

Mark Hayward, managing director of NAEA, said: 'We expected to see uncertainty in the immediate period following Brexit and during the summer months the market always quietens down.

'We are optimistic that the housing market will spring back into full swing in the coming months.'

The data also showed the number of sales made to first-time buyers decreased in July, from 30 per cent of the total to 25 per cent.

Big dip: Optimism over house prices dipped in the aftermath of Brexit - but have surged ahead again the last month

A separate survey of households by Knight Frank today showed that more people believe their property increased in value in the last month than fell.

Respondents in six of the 11 regions covered by the index believe prices increased over the course of the month.

Households in the East of England perceived the biggest price growth in August, followed by those in the South West and South East.

The poll also showed confidence that values will continue to rise in the next 12 months – albeit at a slower pace than before the EU Referendum.

Brexit bounce: Data from Haart suggests areas which voted to leave the EU have seen little impact on the housing market, compared to those who wanted to remain

Elsewhere, data from estate agency Haart suggests that the housing market has prospered in areas of the country that voted to leave Europe, but slumped in those that hoped to remain.

It claims the 'psychology of Brexit' has driven big regional differences in the buying and selling of homes since the referendum.

It said there has been a 50 per cent surge in abandoned sales in branches in towns and cities that voted to stay in the EU, but a two per cent drop in branches in Leave areas.

The number of abandoned sales has doubled in Southville, Bristol, for example, which voted 62 per cent to Remain. In Barnsley, Yorkshire, which voted 68 per cent for Leave, there was a 39 per cent drop in abandoned sales.

Branches in areas that voted to leave the EU have also seen a surge in buyer registrations.

Wisbech in the district of Fenland, Cambridgeshire, voted 71 per cent for Leave. The number of applicants signing up to branches there in the weeks since the vote is up by 9.6 per cent.

In nearby Great Shelford, which recorded a 60 per cent Remain vote, there was a 42 per cent drop in the number of registrations.

Separate data from Rightmove earlier in the week revealed the average asking price for a home fell £3,602 in the last month.

However, while the property website said the Brexit vote had knocked sentiment, it added that the month-on-month decline in asking prices was in line with the traditional summer lull.

Howard Archer, economist at IHS Global Insight, said: 'We believe housing market activity is likely to be limited over the coming months and prices will weaken as heightened uncertainty following the UK's vote to leave the EU weighs down markedly on economic activity and consumer confidence.

'We suspect that house prices could fall back by around three per cent over the second half of 2016 and there could well be a further five per cent drop in 2017.'

Meanwhile the latest house price index from Nationwide Building Society – the first since the EU referendum decision in June – showed that properties values continue to rise.