http://www.philstar.com/cebu-business/2016/10/20/1635326/air-asia-launch-cebu-taipei-next-month
60
6
CEBU, Philippines - The Philippine unit of Asia's biggest budget carrier Air Asia Berhad will operate direct flights from Cebu to Taipei starting November 25.

"The addition of Cebu-Taipei enables us to further strengthen our hub in Cebu," Philippines Air Asia CEO Dexter Comendador told the press yesterday.

"Cebu offers wonderful opportunities for Taiwanese businessmen and we are here to provide the much-needed connectivity... to enable more and more people to engage in business, trade and commerce aside from tourism," Comendador said.

The CEO also disclosed yesterday that a new route from Cebu will be launched soon, however, he declined to announce this yet.

He said the company eyes to connect Cebu to more Asian cities especially those not yet served by its flight network.

The Malaysian budget carrier will also increase flights between Cebu to Kuala Lumpur from three to four times weekly starting October 29 on top of its current flights to South Korea.

Freeman ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch:

There is an anticipation of the influx of tourists and travelers to Taipei following the recent easing of visa rules for Filipinos.

Taiwan recently implemented two measures that would make it easier for Filipinos to travel to the island.

On October 7, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Republic of China (Taiwan) announced that Philippine passport holders who want to travel to Taiwan can now apply for an e-visa.

This covers Filipinos who are planning to visit Taiwan for tourism, business, visit to relatives, attend international conferences and participate in sport events.

After filing the application, there is no need for a physical appearance at the Taipei Economic and Cultural Office in the Philippines.

Only a printout of the e-visa will be presented to immigration officials upon arrival in Taiwan. The e-visa will be valid for three months with duration of stay up to 30 days.

Since September 1, Taiwan eased its visa-free requirements for Filipinos who have any of the following documents issued by Australia, Canada, Japan, Korea, New Zealand, any of the Schengen countries, the United Kingdom, and the United States — a resident or permanent resident card; a valid entry visa; or a resident card or visa that has expired less than 10 years before the date of arrival to Taiwan. Qualified Filipinos can apply for the Taiwan Travel Authorization Certificate which allows multiple entries to Taiwan, valid for three months and allows up to 30-day stay.

Quoting Air Asia Group CEO Tony Fernandes, Comendador said the airline will introduce the country’s domestic destinations especially Cebu to more international destinations.

He said Fernandes wants to bring in more tourists going around Asia to the Philippines' key tourist destinations. (FREEMAN)