http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3793664/Body-Maryland-teen-wanted-horror-stabbing-attack-younger-siblings.html
60
6
Searchers have found the body of an 18-year-old Maryland man accused of fatally stabbing his 10-year-old stepsister and wounding his 13-year-old stepbrother, authorities said.

The body of Andres Rafael Quintana Garcia was found at about 11am on Friday in an area with trees and brush near the family's Glen Burnie home, where Monday's attack occurred, Anne Arundel County Police spokesman Lt Ryan Frashure said by telephone and in a news release.

Law enforcement officials had been searching for Garcia after they obtained an arrest warrant for him, but could not find him for days.

At this time, police said preliminary information indicates Garcia had been dead for some time and took his own life, according to WBAL-TV.

Scroll down for video

Police said they have found the body of Andres Rafael Quintana Garcia (left), 18, of Maryland, who was wanted in the fatal stabbing of his 10-year-old stepsister, Ruby Ramirez (right)

Garcia pulled a knife and stabbed two family members, ages 10 and 13, at their home in Maryland (pictured following the attack) on Monday, police said

The body has been taken to the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner to determine the cause and manner of death, Frashure said.

'Officers that have been searching for Garcia have several mixed emotions,' Frashure told the Capital Gazette by email on Friday.

'While it is tragic that this young man took his own life, they are hoping that the family can begin the healing process.'

His younger siblings were stabbed on Monday when a family dispute escalated, according to Frashure.

The girl, identified on Friday as Ruby Ramirez, died and her brother, who has not been identified, was released from a hospital on Thursday, he said.

An autopsy on Ramirez found the cause of death was multiple stab and cut wounds indicating homicide, according to WBAL-TV.

Law enforcement officials had been searching for Garcia after they obtained an arrest warrant for him, but could not find him for days

At this time, police said preliminary information indicates Garcia had been dead for some time and took his own life

Investigators said the children were at home, without their parents, when an argument with the suspect turned violent, CBS Baltimore reported.

Garcia allegedly pulled a knife and stabbed the two family members.

Neighbors at the time heard screaming and doors slamming.

'My first instinct was that it was two kids playing, and then something kept telling me that this sounded more stressful,' neighbor Rhonda Hill told CBS.

First responders found the victims at about 7.42pm at the home on the 6400 block of Roots Drive in Glen Burnie.

Both victims were treated at the scene and transported to nearby hospitals, and Garcia fled the scene and disappeared.

On Thursday, a candlelight vigil was held for Ramirez and family and friends left flowers, candles and stuffed animals on their door step (pictured)

'Ever since the assault, we believed that he was in this area because he simply didn't have a lot of resources,' Frashure said on Friday.

'Evidence pointed right after the assault (that) he left the house very quickly, he didn't pack a bag, there was no indication that he grabbed clothing, nothing like that, he had no cellphone.

'So we had his passport. He had only been in this area for approximately six months.

'He came from the northern Virginia area, moved up here with family, so we believe that his resources here were limited.'

Ramirez was a fifth grader at Hilltop Elementary School and had just enrolled in county schools last month, according to Anne Arundel County Public Schools spokeswoman Maneka Monk.

Monk told the Capital Gazette by email on Friday that it had been a 'tough week' for the school.

'No school community wants to face losing one of its youngest members,' Monk said.

'Students and staff are coping the best they can by leaning on each other and coming closer together as a community.'

On Thursday, a candlelight vigil was held for Ramirez.

Prior to Friday's discovery of Garcia's body, he had been facing charges of murder, assault and reckless endangerment.