http://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2016/09/30/asia-pacific/politics-diplomacy-asia-pacific/duterte-likens-hitler-says-wants-kill-millions-drug-users/
62
6
President Rodrigo Duterte on Friday appeared to liken himself to Nazi leader Adolf Hitler and said he would “be happy” to exterminate 3 million drug users and peddlers in the country.

In a rambling speech on his arrival in Davao City after a visit to Vietnam, Duterte told reporters that he had been “portrayed to be some cousin of Hitler” by critics.

Noting that Hitler had murdered millions of Jews, Duterte said: “There are 3 million drug addicts (in the Philippines). I’d be happy to slaughter them.

“If Germany had Hitler, the Philippines would have … ,” he said, pausing and pointing to himself.

“You know my victims. I would like (them) to be all criminals to finish the problem of my country and save the next generation from perdition.”

Duterte was voted to power in a May election on the back of a vow to end drugs and corruption in the country of 100 million people. He took office on June 30 and over 3,100 people have been killed since then, mostly drug users and peddlers, in police operations and in vigilante killings.

Duterte also said that joint exercises of Filipino and American troops next week will be the last, although his foreign secretary quickly said the decision was not final.

Duterte said he wants to establish new trade and commercial alliances with China and Russia, and that Beijing doesn’t want the war games.

“I would serve notice to you now that this will be the last military exercise,” he said. “Jointly, Philippines-U.S., the last one.”

State Department spokesman John Kirby said Wednesday said they have not received any official communication from the Philippine government on the matter.

U.S. Defense Secretary Ash Carter said Thursday in a speech in San Diego, “As it has been for decades, our alliance with the Philippines is ironclad.” Carter later left for a meeting in Hawaii with defense ministers from Southeast Asia, including the Philippines.

About 1,400 U.S. troops based in Okinawa and 500 of their Filipino counterparts plan to participate in the Philippines Amphibious Landing Exercise from Oct. 4-12 in multiple locations, including Palawan, the westernmost province nearest to disputed islands in the South China Sea, officials said.