http://www.sfgate.com/nation/article/Thousands-of-Lousiana-flood-victims-struggle-to-9171666.php
60
6
Thousands of Lousiana flood victims struggle to find housing

Photo: Joe Raedle Image 1 of / 1 Caption Close Image 1 of 1 Elsie Lazarus of St. Amant, La., tries to recover belongings from the living room of her home, one of an estimated 40,000 damaged by deadly flooding. Elsie Lazarus of St. Amant, La., tries to recover belongings from the living room of her home, one of an estimated 40,000 damaged by deadly flooding. Photo: Joe Raedle Thousands of Lousiana flood victims struggle to find housing 1 / 1 Back to Gallery

DENHAM SPRINGS, La. — Keisha Taylor, a 37-year-old mother of four, has spent three nights in two different shelters since her family fled the flooding at their Baton Rouge apartment complex. She doesn’t know how much longer they will be sleeping on cots inside the downtown arena where hundreds sought shelter.

Taylor probably could stay with relatives in White Castle, a town about 30 miles west of Louisiana’s capital city, but three of her children are enrolled in Baton Rouge schools that could reopen next week.

“This is where I live. I need to be home,” she said.

Taylor is among thousands of people across southern Louisiana displaced by catastrophic flooding and now struggling with where to live.

With an estimated 40,000 homes damaged by deadly flooding, Louisiana could be looking at its biggest housing crunch since the miserable, bumbling aftermath of Hurricane Katrina a decade ago.

Victims are staying in shelters, bunking with friends or relatives or sleeping in trailers on their front lawns. Others unable or unwilling to leave their homes are living amid mud and the ever-present risk of mold in the steamy August heat.

Many will need extended places to stay while they rebuild. Countless others had no flood insurance and may lack the means to repair their homes.

“I got nowhere else to go,” said Thomas Lee, 56, who ekes out a living as a drywall hanger — a skill that will come in handy. His sodden furniture is piled curbside and the drywall in his rented house is puckering, but Thomas still plans to stay there, sleeping on an air mattress.

Exactly how many will need temporary housing is unclear, but state officials are already urging landlords to allow short-term leases and encouraging people to rent out any empty space available.

Terri Ricks, deputy secretary for the Department of Children and Family Services, which helps organize local sheltering efforts, said the state is talking with parishes about running a long-term shelter in the region if needed.

The Federal Emergency Management Agency, whose very name became a punch line during Katrina, said it will look into lining up rental properties for those left homeless and will consider using temporary housing units.

Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson visited Louisiana on Thursday to review the federal government’s response to the flooding. But the White House says President Obama is unlikely to break from a New England vacation to survey Louisiana flood damage, despite calls for him to visit.