http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-wales-politics-37754517
61
6
Image copyright Getty Images

Efforts to solve the steel industry crisis in Wales are in danger of losing momentum, according to a Welsh Assembly committee.

Tata Steel announced in April that it looked to sell its UK business, but decided to pause the process in July.

Members of the economy committee said the steel industry had "fallen down the agenda" following the Brexit vote.

Tata employs about 7,000 in Wales, including more than 4,000 at Port Talbot.

AMs on the committee have now written to Prime Minister Theresa May calling for swift action to secure a stable and sustainable future for steel production in Wales and the wider UK.

Image caption Russell George said constituents were "losing patience" over the cancellations

"When Tata announced it was looking to sell its steel operations earlier this year, there was a groundswell of opinion that something must be done to safeguard jobs," said Russell George, chairman of the economy, infrastructure and skills committee.

"A coordinated approach involving all sides, including the UK and Welsh governments, was quickly set up to consider what support could be offered.

"The evidence we heard during our meeting suggests that that momentum is in danger of being lost, and that since the Brexit referendum the steel industry crisis has fallen down the agenda.

"But the crisis is still very real and there are thousands of people across Wales wondering and worrying about what the futures holds for them and their families."

The UK government said last week that it was "focused on working with the industry".

A spokesman said: "As we said in our evidence to the committee, a great deal of work has been done to support the steel industry including tackling the dumping of cheap imports into the EU and buying British.

"The recent reopening of the plate mills in Scotland and the British Steel site at Scunthorpe, which has since hired more people, shows the sector can remain competitive with the right investment."