http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3895112/Fighting-breaks-rival-gangs-unaccompanied-children-desperate-Calais-Britain.html
61
6
Fighting tonight broke out between rival gangs of alleged unaccompanied children hoping to get to Britain from Calais.

CRS riot police were called to the site of the former Jungle camp, which was razed last week in a high profile operation carried out by the French authorities.

While up to 7,000 migrants were ejected, up to 1,500 youngsters were left behind in a temporary centre made out of former shipping containers.

Up to 1,500 youngsters were left behind in a temporary centre made out of former shipping containers

It was members of this group who tonight took part in the brawl, which started at around 6pm by a Christian place of worship that was left intact during the demolition of the Jungle.

'A fight broke out in the southern part of Calais camp between more than a hundred Eritrean and Afghan migrant children,' said a spokesman for the prefecture that covers Calais.

'The security forces intervened immediately to separate the two groups, and security was strengthened in the temporary reception centre.'

Order was restored by around 7pm, and there were not thought to have been any arrests or serious injuries.

Riot police were called to the site of the former Jungle refugee camp this evening, and order was restored after around an hour

A correspondent for the AFP news agency said he saw the two gangs fighting by the place of worship, which is commonly referred to as church, even though it has not been consecrated.

It has been left behind along with two mosques for the Muslim youngsters to pray in.

The French government is still struggling to deal with the 1,500 unaccompanied minors who live in what remains of the Jungle.

French president Francois Hollande has urged Britain to take its share of responsibility for these these migrant children, especially as many say they have family in the UK.

Britain has so far agreed to take in about 250 of them, but there are suspicions that many are not in fact children at all.

An aerial view of the camp today following its demolition

A UK government spokesman said last week that Britain remained 'firmly committed to working with the French to safeguard and protect children who remain in Calais - and that includes transferring eligible children to the UK safely and as soon as possible'.

Many of the 5,000 people officially evacuated from the Jungle have been taken to reception centres around France, where they will be processed.

But thousands more have headed off alone, and many are determined to get to Britain still.

A number have headed to Paris, where some 3000 mainly young migrant men are sleeping rough close to the Eurostar hub in the north of the city.

It was a bank holiday in France today (tues), but the French authorities have pledged to clear the capital's streets by the end of the week.