http://www.4-traders.com/DUKE-ENERGY-CORP-11076385/news/Duke-Energy-Randolph-sends-help-to-areas-Matthew-hurt-23192819/
60
6
Oct. 11 -- ASHEBORO -- Randolph County emergency services personnel of all kinds are helping in the hardest hit parts of eastern North Carolina in the wake of Hurricane Matthew.

According to Donovan Davis , the county's emergency services director:

* Sheriff Robert Graves sent 13 deputies to assist in Bladen County .

* Jared Byrd , the Emergency Management Coordinator, is deployed to Johnston County to assist in their emergency operations center.

* Two Paramedics, Crystal Pate and Victoria Pacheco , have been deployed as part of an EMS strike team down east and probably will end up in Columbus County .

* Ash-Rand Rescue & EMS and Guil-Rand Fire Department both have deployed swift water rescue teams to eastern North Carolina .

* At least four local fire departments, including Asheboro , Eastside, West Side and Guil-Rand, have a team and apparatus deployed to eastern NC.

Before the storm, the county sent one of its mobile generators to Lenoir County and its electronic (outdoor) LED sign to Brunswick County .

"We had temporary localized flooding in our usual spots, but the water receded relatively fast," Davis wrote in an email on Monday. "There were many trees downed across the road and power lines, causing sporadic localized power outages. Power was also restored quickly. There were a few trees down across homes or vehicles, due to winds and/or weakened soil.

"There really isn't anything going on in Randolph right now. We did declare a local State of Emergency at midnight, Sunday, October 9, 2016 . I will leave that in effect until Wednesday. The state of emergency is a formality only and held no restrictions or prohibitions for our citizens."

Firefighters go

The crews from Asheboro and Guil-Rand traveled together to Columbus County Monday to assist with calls for service, welfare checks and clearing debris from roadways in an area hit hard by the storm.

The N.C. Department of Public Safety requested the assistance via the state's mutual aid system, which was developed following Hurricane Fran in 1996. The DPS website notes that the mutual aid system is a voluntary agreement among North Carolina municipalities to share resources during a disaster. All 100 counties, the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians and nearly three-fourths of the 650 municipalities have signed the agreement.

The Fayetteville Observer reported Sunday that major flooding had cut Whiteville -- the Columbus County seat and the county's largest municipality, in half, leaving Duke Energy's main substation in Soules Swamp under water. The paper reported that power would not be restored in Whiteville until that dried out -- and that nearly every resident in Columbus County was without power for varying amounts of time after Matthew blew through.

Assistant Chief Preston King of the Asheboro Fire Department said four city firefighters made the trip. They were told they likely would be needed for three to five days. "They went down there to help them out however they need it," King said. "We have people still here and we have backup equipment. It's not really affecting us as long as they get back safe."

Guil-Rand Assistant Chief Darren Pierce echoed those words. Three Guil-Rand firefighters made the trip. They volunteered to go, and their shift is currently off-duty. "We put one of our reserve engines in that engine's place," Pierce said. "We're still running everything like normal."

Ash-Rand

On Sunday, Moore County experienced severe flooding in the Woodlake and River Bend communities. There was concern that the Woodlake Dam might burst so there was a recommended evacuation.

"They requested we send a Boat Strike Team, which consists of a boat capable of operating in swift water conditions with a crew that has swift water training along with personal protective equipment for themselves as well as any victims they encounter," wrote Ash-Rand Assistant Chief Tommy McNeill in an email.

"We arrived at Crains Creek Fire Department which was the staging area. We were assigned a mission, but as we were making an assessment of the area to launch the boat the missing was scratched due impending darkness and they had located the subject that we were going to search for on Circle Drive ."

Ash-Rand is on standby if needed somewhere else. Ash-Rand personnel assisted after Hurricane Floyd in 1999, Hurricane Ivan in 2004, and a 2011 tornado in Lee County / Sanford .

Moore County

On Monday, the Moore County Sheriff's Office reported that state Department of Transportation officials had closed Farm Life School Road in vicinity of McCaskill Road as well as Lakebay Road at Little River . Both roads have experienced damage as a result of flooding. Sheriff Neil Godfrey reminded residents that officials were doing everything they could do to identify troubled areas and asked motorists to remain vigilant.

Chief Deputy Frank Rodriquez of Moore County said the storm hammered the county, especially in the southern and eastern sections. "We lost all power and all of our communications lines," he said, "and if not for the great work of our deputies and our IT professionals, we'd probably still be down. We had great people here that were able to take the necessary steps to make other things work."

For a few hours on Sunday, Rodriguez said, when the lines were down, 911 calls were re-routed to a cell phone and then to emergency responders. Power to the sheriff's office came from generators from early Sunday morning until about midday on Monday.

Electric service

Many area residents were still without electric service early Monday afternoon. Duke Energy was reporting the following customer outages at 6:30 p.m. : Randolph (11 in five locations); Montgomery (397 in 39 locations); Chatham (1,068 in 45 locations); and Moore (9,074 in 293 locations).

Chatham County officials reported that the county animal shelter would be closed until power is restored. Those with an animal services emergency, should call 919-542-2911.

About one-third of Randolph Electric Membership Corp.'s membership -- 9,470 members -- lost electricity at various times as a result of the storm: In Randolph, 1,560; Moore , 4,181; Montgomery , 2,492; Chatham , 1,224; and Alamance , 13. Only a few scattered outages remained Sunday afternoon.

According to an REMC press release, line personnel and contract crews worked steadily Saturday and Sunday to repair 12 broken poles and multiple spans of downed wire.

"All the linemen worked diligently in very windy, wet conditions to restore power as safely and quickly as possible for our members," said Dale Lambert , REMC's chief executive officer. "I appreciate each and every employee who had a part in any way in the restoration efforts. And I want to say thank you to our members for their understanding and many kind, encouraging words over the course of the storm."

On Monday, REMC sent 61 cooperative and contractor line technicians to Pee Dee Electric , based in Wadesboro , to assist in restoration efforts. When they are done, crews will move on to help other cooperatives still rebuilding distribution systems.

Sewer overflows

Both Asheboro and Liberty reported wastewater overflows due to heavy rain from the storm, as required by state law when a waste spill of 1,000 gallons or more reaches surface waters. There was no apparent environmental impact from the overflows.

* Asheboro experienced wastewater overflows on Saturday of approximately 46,100 gallons from Lift Station #3, 1129 E. Mine St ,. and 28,400 gallons from Lift Station #6, 15 Richland Place . There was no apparent environmental impact from these overflows and the City of Asheboro nor any other drinking water was affected. The overflows were due to heavy rainfall associated with Hurricane Matthew causing rainwater to get into the sewer mains.

* On Saturday in Liberty , accidental wastewater overflows occurred on Kinro Road (manhole #500B) when approximately 9,600 gallons of wastewater was released; on East Lowe Avenue (manhole #506A), approximately 7,200 gallons; at the West Kime Avenue Lift Station , approximately 3,780 gallons; on West Kime Avenue (manhole #401), approximately 3,360 gallons; on the East Brookwood Avenue outfall line (manhole #15), approximately 13,860 gallons; on the East Brookwood Avenue outfall line (manhole #12) when approximately 13,200 gallons; on the Starmount Avenue outfall line (manhole #601), approximately 7,140 gallons; and at the Johnson Street Lift Station , approximately 13,920 gallons.

___

(c)2016 The Courier-Tribune, Asheboro, N.C.

Visit The Courier-Tribune, Asheboro, N.C. at www.courier-tribune.com

Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.