http://www.timeslive.co.za/sundaytimes/businesstimes/2016/10/23/High-ranking-duo-take-the-joystick-at-ailing-Air-Sim
60
6
But the national airline, Air Zimbabwe, which is reportedly bleeding about $3-million (about R42-million) a month in losses, is yet to take off and enjoy the boom.

Instead, foreign airlines such as SAA, its SA Airlink unit, British Airways, Fastjet, Emirates, Kenyan Airways, Ethiopian Airways and Air Namibia have cashed in on the growth opportunities offered by Harare's open-skies policy.

The policy is a push by the government of President Robert Mugabe to allow new players into the aviation market. Economic observers have, however, warned that while the policy would boost foreign airlines' presence, it would ultimately sink the ailing national carrier.

Air Zimbabwe enjoys a monopoly on all domestic routes: Harare-Bulawayo, Harare-Victoria Falls, Harare-Kariba, Bulawayo-Victoria Falls. But on regional routes - Harare-Johannesburg, Johannesburg-Victoria Falls, Bulawayo-Johannesburg, Air Zimbabwe is getting a run for its money.

Now the distressed airline is looking to the son of the late former vice-president, Simon Muzenda, and Mugabe's son-in-law to turn around its fortunes.

It will not be an easy feat for Ripton Muzenda and Simba Chikore, who were recently appointed the CEO and chief operating officer respectively .

Muzenda is a former pilot and chief instructor with the airline, while Chikore had a short stint as a pilot at Air Zimbabwe and with a Middle Eastern airline.

The appointments have sparked anger from the opposition, which claims they were largely influenced by nepotism, ignoring more qualified candidates.

Air Zimbabwe's acting CEO since September 2013 had been Edmund Makona .

Chikore in particular has been at the receiving end of much criticism over his appointment.

The airline is often ridiculed on social media as "Air Simbabwe" or simply as "Air Sim"- a tweak of its official Air Zim tag.

Jacob Mafume, spokesman of the People's Democratic Party, said Chikore's appointment was a bitter joke for suffering Zimbabweans.

"The man has not even run a chicken coop in his life. His only qualification is being the son-in-law of Mugabe. We know Mugabe uses the airline as his personal transport, but surely this has consolidated our status as a kangaroo republic," he said.

Transport Minister Joram Gumbo, however, has defended the appointments and said the selection process was above board.

Air Zimbabwe faces significant challenges, including a bloated workforce, an obsolete aircraft fleet and dwindling passenger numbers. Estimates are that the airline carries about 200000 travellers a year, a significant drop from its peak in the 1990s of one million travellers a year.

The fall in passenger numbers has been fuelled by the unreliable service; the airline is prone to flight cancellations and delays.

Just last week, Air Zimbabwe cancelled a flight from Harare to Bulawayo after passengers had endured a seven-hour delay. The flight was scheduled to leave at 5pm, but airline officials announced the cancellation to passengers at midnight.

"Air Zimbabwe is the example of lack of competition and monopoly in an industry," said Gamu Chinamasa, who was inconvenienced by the flight delay. "It is so disappointing. If they allowed, or Fastjet agreed to, certain local routes, they would pull up their socks. Air Zimbabwe is relaxed, it's disgusting."

Air Zimbabwe's fleet comprises two Boeing 767s, three 737s, three MA60s and two Airbus A320s. Of these, only four are flying - an Airbus, a Boeing 767, a 737 and one MA60.

Last year, in an effort to help shore it up, the government took on the airline's $300-million debt. Despite this lifeline, the situation has remained bleak as no new investment flows in from the state.

Air Zimbabwe has been unable to keep up with the competition. Its competitors for the regional routes have added more flights on the routes or tweaked up offers to travellers.

This week, an aviation source said Fastjet was planning to add another flight on the lucrative Harare-Johannesburg route early next month. "The demand has been overwhelming," said the source. Fastjet already operates two daily flights between Harare and Johannesburg. It is also understood that Fastjet is keen to enter the domestic market, where Air Zimbabwe has a monopoly.

The Harare to Johannesburg route is the most fiercely fought over by SAA, BA, Fastjet and Air Zimbabwe. The Civil Aviation Authority estimates that SAA controls about 30% of the market.

Last month, Airlink launched a second daily flight to Bulawayo from Johannesburg. Air Zimbabwe also operates a flight on that route.

Karin Murray, the sales and marketing manager for Airlink, said the new morning flight would not only provide additional flexibility when planning traveller itineraries, but would provide additional capacity on the route.

"Airlink has also added additional capacity over the Christmas season with an afternoon flight which will operate from December 12 2016 to January 15 2017," said Murray.

For now, Air Zimbabwe's hopes of a turnaround lie with its high-flying duo of Muzenda and Chikore.