http://www.wsj.com/articles/wells-fargo-hasnt-escaped-cross-selling-tangle-1473790210
61
6
ENLARGE Wells Fargo this week told employees to stop cross-selling products to customers. A New York branch is seen here. Photo: Getty Images

Wells Fargo has begun a public campaign of contrition for pushing products onto customers without their knowledge. But it hasn’t come to grips with the core strategic mistake that led it astray it the first place.

Revelations from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau last week that Wells Fargo employees opened up as many as 2 million deposit and credit-card accounts for clients without permission have spotlighted the bank’s extraordinary focus on cross-selling products to existing clients.

This week, the bank told some employees to immediately stop cross-selling products to customers, and said it would end all product sales goals in its retail banking operations by January.

Chief Financial Officer John Shrewsberry also said at an investor conference on Tuesday that Wells Fargo would develop a new compensation model for employees that gives “incentives for people to behave in a manner that’s consistent with our principles.”

But he added that the bank isn’t giving up on its core commitment to “satisfying all of our customers’ financial needs, to being relationship-oriented and, frankly, to cross-selling to deepen those relationships.”

These comments suggest the bank still doesn’t believe its focus on cross-selling has been excessive. But, as CLSA analyst Mike Mayo notes, evidence has been building for a while that strategy is hitting “soft limits.”

The number of products per retail household at Wells Fargo rose from 5.5 at the end of 2009 to 6.4 in 2013, then plateaued, and actually fell slightly to 6.3 last year, according to company disclosures. There are only so many credit cards, savings accounts and mortgages that anyone needs.

Failure to recognize these natural limits seems to have led to unrealistic sales targets being imposed on retail-branch employees, and this in turn set the table for the widespread fraud that took place. In its statement, the CFPB explicitly linked the bank’s employee-compensation program with the drive to open accounts.

Get financial insights and commentary on global investing from The Wall Street Journal’s Heard on the Street team. Subscribe to the podcast.

It is particularly troubling that no top managers so far have been held to account for the flawed incentives that led to problems. Asked on Thursday who was the most senior employee to be disciplined over the affair, Mr. Shrewsberry said that around 10% of the 5,300 employees terminated over five years were branch managers or above. He didn’t identify any senior officers.

That doesn’t go far enough. The branch managers, after all, were themselves responding to incentives made from higher up.

So while it is welcome that the bank is changing its compensation scheme, shareholders should be troubled by its failure to fess up to a bigger strategic failure. If cross-selling peaked as an engine of growth years ago, investors should be asking what, if anything, will replace it.