http://www.4-traders.com/WELLS-FARGO-CO-14861/news/Wells-Fargo-Curbs-Product-Cross-Selling-Update-23044313/
61
6
By Christina Rexrode and Emily Glazer

Wells Fargo & Co. has told some employees to stop cross-selling products to customers, while the Senate Banking Committee's Republican majority said late Monday it plans a hearing into the bank's sales practices.

The committee intends to question Wells Fargo Chief Executive John Stumpf about the events that led the bank to pay a $185 million fine and enter into an enforcement action with two federal regulators and a local official. The committee has already informed Mr. Stumpf that his presence was requested for the Sept. 20 hearing, according to Torrie Matous, a spokeswoman for the banking committee's majority, led by Sen. Richard Shelby of Alabama.

Wells Fargo declined to comment.

Several Wells Fargo executives are scheduled to brief the banking committee Tuesday and regulators are expected to meet with them later this week, according to people familiar with the matter.

The move comes after committee Democrats had called earlier Monday for a hearing into the biggest U.S. bank by market value. "We should accept nothing less than a full and transparent explanation of what went wrong, who is responsible, how to fix it and how to prevent such fraud in the future," Democratic senators wrote.

Wells Fargo has faced a public and political storm after last week's agreement with regulators alleged practices that included employees creating as many as two million accounts without customers' knowledge. The bank didn't admit or deny wrongdoing.

In the wake of the settlement, the bank instructed some workers fielding customer calls to "please suspend referrals of products or services unless requested by customers until further notice," according to an alert sent to some employees Friday that was reviewed by The Wall Street Journal.

A push to cross-sell multiple products to individual customers was at the center of the claims last week of "widespread illegal" behavior leveled against the bank by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and Los Angeles City Attorney.

Wells Fargo attributed the cross-selling freeze among customer-service operators to "high call volumes," according to the internal message. Following opprobrium directed at the lender online, along with condemnations from even some competitors, the bank also sent out talking points for employees who work directly with customers.

A Wells Fargo spokeswoman said the bank would evaluate call volume throughout the week and decide Friday whether to continue the freeze.

Wells Fargo continues to face fallout from the regulators' allegations. Besides the Capitol Hill hearing, at least one Wall Street analyst and some advocates of placing greater restrictions on big banks called for pay of top bank executives to be clawed back.

In a note to clients Monday, CLSA bank analyst Mike Mayo said the allegations "probably should lead to a pay clawback" for Carrie Tolstedt, who oversaw all of retail-banking operations and related branches in recent years. Ms. Tolstedt announced earlier this year that she would retire from the bank after 27 years there. She stepped down as community-bank head at the end of July. Ms. Tolstedt didn't return requests for comment.

Dennis Kelleher, chief executive of Washington-based financial-advocacy group Better Markets, said the Wells Fargo episode seems "exactly designed" for clawback provisions under the bank's own guidelines. He said the bank should reclaim any pay attributable to fraudulent conduct. "If you don't do that, then you incentivize your employees to break the law," he said.

Wells Fargo declined to comment on calls for pay clawbacks.

--Aruna Viswanatha contributed to this article.

Write to Christina Rexrode at christina.rexrode@wsj.com and Emily Glazer at emily.glazer@wsj.com