http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3832389/Furious-Vladimir-Putin-CANCELS-visit-Paris-Francois-Hollande-insists-discuss-Russia-s-support-Syria-s-President-Assad.html
61
6
Vladimir Putin has pulled out of a visit to Paris next week to meet with Francois Hollande who insisted they discuss Russian support for Syria's President Assad.

The Kremlin confirmed this morning that Putin had cancelled the trip to the French capital where he was due to meet with Hollande.

The long-planned visit to Paris, which would have taken place next Wednesday, would have seen Putin inaugurate a new Russian Orthodox church near the Eiffel Tower as well as visit a Russian cultural centre and an exhibition

Scroll down for video

Russian president Vladimir Putin, who has pulled out of a visit to Paris next week after France insisted they talk about Syria

But it is thought that Hollande had told the Kremlin that the only event he wanted to attend with Putin during his visit would be a 'working meeting' on Syria.

The French president's office then said that Moscow 'let it be known that it wanted to postpone the trip.'

But the Kremlin hit back saying Putin is happy to go to France but only when the 'French president is ready.'

His spokesman Dmitry Peskov said: 'Regrettably, those events dropped out of the program,' saying it's up to the French side to explain the reason.

He added: 'The president decided to cancel the visit.'

He also said that Putin could visit France at a later date which would be 'comfortable' for Hollande.

It is thought that Hollande had told the Kremlin that the only event he wanted to attend with Putin during his visit would be a 'working meeting' on Syria

But the French president responded that he was prepared to meet Putin 'at any time... to further peace'.

Speaking in Strasbourg, Hollande said France and Russia had had a 'major disagreement' over Syria.

'It is necessary to have dialogue with Russia but it must be firm and frank,' Hollande told the parliamentary assembly of the Council of Europe rights body.

Putin cancelling his trip to Paris comes after Hollande left open the question of whether he would receive the Russian leader, describing the scorched-earth campaign in Aleppo as a war crime.

Hollande told the TMC Channel: 'I asked myself the question... Is it useful? Is it necessary? Can it be a way of exerting pressure? Can we get him to stop what he is doing with the Syrian regime?'

Meanwhile yesterday, it was announced that France will ask the International Criminal Court's prosecutor to launch an investigation into war crimes it says have been committed by Syrian and Russian forces in eastern Aleppo.

Russia has been waging an aerial bombing campaign in Syria more than a year in support of President Bashar al-Assad's forces, part of a multi-front war that has claimed some 300,000 lives and seen Moscow further estranged from the West.

French Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault told France Inter radio: 'These bombings - and I said it in Moscow - are war crimes. It includes all those who are complicit for what's happening in Aleppo, including Russian leaders.

'We shall contact the International Criminal Court prosecutor to see how she can launch these investigations.'

It was announced that France will ask the International Criminal Court's prosecutor to launch an investigation into war crimes it says have been committed by Russian forces in eastern Aleppo

Hollande has also left open the question of whether he would receive the Russian leader, describing the scorched-earth campaign in Aleppo as a war crime

U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry also called for a war crimes investigation last week.

But Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova: 'It is very dangerous to play with such words because war crimes also weigh on the shoulders of American officials.

It is unclear how the ICC could proceed given that the court has no jurisdiction for crimes in Syria because it is not a member.

It appears the only way for the case to make it to the ICC would be through the U.N. Security Council referral, which has been deadlocked over Syria. Moscow vetoed a French resolution in May 2014 to refer the situation in Syria to the ICC.

However, despite cancelling his visit to Paris, Putin is still considering travelling to Berlin on October 19 for a meeting on the conflict in Ukraine, one of his aides told Itar-Tass agency on Monday.

German Chancellor Angela Merkel proposed the meeting along the lines of the so-called Normandy format, bringing together Germany, France, Russia and Ukraine.