http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/714690/Islamic-State-ISIS-jihadis-heading-Europe-EU-chiefs-wave-terror
10
1
GETTY The EU's anti-terror chief has warned a wave of ISIS fighters are on their way to Europe

Emergency services are bracing for a spate of deadly car bomb attacks on European cities as the group’s so-called Caliphate in the Middle East continues to disintegrate. Spooks are particularly alarmed by the prospect of homegrown jihadis packing cars full of explosives and detonating them at public places to cause civilian casualties on a massive scale.

And he cautioned twisted terrorists could even manufacture chemical weapons, using techniques learned at ISIS academies in Syria, to unleash at popular tourist spots. Express.co.uk revealed this month how bigwigs in Brussels have bomb-proofed the EU parliament building amid fears it could be targeted by crazed Islamists loyal to the hate cult, which is also known as Daesh.

GETTY The terror group's so-called Caliphate in the Middle East is disintegrating

NC More than 5,000 Europeans have gone to the Middle East to fight for ISIS

And now the EU’s counter-terrorism chief Gilles de Kerchove has warned that thousands more trained, violent and mentally unhinged jihadis are heading home from the Middle East with the intention of wreaking havoc on Europe’s streets. He also warned that there is an increasing risk that lawless Libya will be used as a “springboard” by ISIS nutcases from which to launch attacks on Italy and the wider continent. Mr de Kerchove, who is the EU's senior anti-terror official, told MEPs: ”The terrorist threat has never been so high in the last 20 years. “We fear that Daesh might step-by-step move to other modus operandi. Car bombs might be one. We know how much they learn how to build vehicle-borne improvised explosive device. And there is a concern as well on the use of chemical weapons.”

How will we handle not hundreds but thousands of fighters? EU counter-terrorism chief Gilles de Kerchove

ISIS is notorious for its use of car bombs in Syria and Iraq, which are often driven by suicide bombers killed in the attacks. They are a particularly deadly tactic because vehicles can be packed with large amounts of explosives and driven into the centres of busy cities areas without attracting suspicion. More than 5,000 EU passport holders are believed to have travelled to conflict areas in Syria and Iraq, and it is feared many of them will come back and launch attacks at home now that the dream of an Islamic Caliphate has all but vanished. Mr de Kerchove said: “A serious issue is the returnees, the exodus of the fighters, not if because we are sure that it will happen, but when the Caliphate will collapse. “How will we handle not hundreds but thousands of fighters who will either want to go to another hotspot – Libya is probably the most obvious one but there are many others where they can hide – or they may want to get back home? “We will have to handle a high number and a diversity of profiles: people who have worked on the frontlines as fighters, people who have worked in the back office, but also wives of fighters and children. We know more than 500 children were born there.”

The fight against ISIS Mon, September 19, 2016 The battle against ISIS militants (also abbreviated as Daesh, ISIL, IS and Islamic State) continues in the Middle East. Play slideshow 1 of 184