http://www.indiatimes.com/news/india/mumbai-teenager-raised-funds-for-children-of-uri-martyrs-so-they-can-get-a-good-education-263320.html
61
6
Children are empathetic and they feel more than others. Sometimes, kids do things that surprise the world. Here's one such story that will fill your heart with happiness and pride.

BCCL

Nineteen soldiers, including four from Maharashtra, were killed when Pakistani militants attacked an army camp near Uri in Jammu and Kashmir on September 18 and this left many crestfallen. However, unlike others who were too busy debating whether Pakistani films and artists should be banned, a Colaba teenager did something that will definitely set an example for many.

Adhiraj Thakur, a student of the Navy Children School in Colaba manage to raise Rs. 80,000 for the education of soldiers killed in the Uri Terrorist Attack.

Sixteen-year-old Adhiraj's father is an officer in the army and posted in Srinagar.

Mumbai Mirror

Talking to Mumbai Mirror, the 16-year-old said he knows the uncertainty that army families live in. That was the reason why he wanted to help the families of martyred jawans in any way possible. Adhiraj's father, Ashish Thakur is a colonel and a Shaurya Chakra awardee.

Further speaking about how he thought of bringing the fund-raising to execution, he said,

“I was very disturbed when I learned about the incident. I have spent many sleepless nights worrying about my father and I can imagine what the soldiers’ families went through when they first heard about the attack."

Talking about his own efforts, Adhiraj said,

“The families will receive compensation from the government, but my efforts are aimed at conveying the message that the nation cares about their contribution and sacrifice."

Apart from starting a WhatsApp group to fundraise money, some donors approached him to pay college fee of the martyred children and some even offered to fund their education till class XII.

Adhiraj told Mirror, “I was really surprised as many people expressed their wish to contribute."

Let's talk about the impact here:

1. The children of Chandrakant Galande from Satara and Vikas Kulmete from Yavatmal, who were killed in the Uri attack, will benefit from his efforts. Both the kids are 10 months old.

2. Another soldier’s young son is a Std XII science student in Jammu. So, Adhiraj is raising funds for his private tuition and plans to travel to Jammu to give the cheques to the families there.

Adhiraj's mother, who is proud of her son's efforts said, “It is difficult to come to terms with everything but we are proud of him and his service."

(With inputs from Mumbai Mirror)