https://www.yahoo.com/news/pros-cons-buying-alphabet-inc-goog-stock-133856467.html
60
6




Alphabet Inc (ticker: GOOG, GOOGL), the company formerly known as Google, is the second-most valuable corporation on the planet. When companies grow to that enormous size, they can have trouble continuing to grow. Look no further than the biggest, Apple ( AAPL), which is expected to see revenue fall in 2016 for the first time since 2001.

Last quarter, Alphabet's second-quarter revenue soared 21 percent from the previous year. In short, GOOG stock doesn't have Apple's problem.

That said, no company is perfect, and no investment is risk-free. Looking at Alphabet stock, what's the potential upside, and where's the potential downside?

Pros of GOOG stock. Google is now technically owned by its corporate parent Alphabet, which is a holding company. Google's other so-called "moonshot" endeavors officially became their own companies, and are now broken out separately under Alphabet's financials in the segment "Other Bets."

Those other bets, though, aren't paying off yet. Nearly all of Alphabet's revenue comes from Google, and 90 percent of Google's revenue is advertising-based. Despite all the glitz, glamour and innovation that we associate with Google -- artificial intelligence, self-driving cars, virtual reality, fiber-optic cable networks, etc. -- it all pales in comparison, financially speaking, to search.

Search advertising, since day one, has been the money machine launching GOOG stock skyward. The number of paid clicks (advertisers pay Google every time you click an ad on a search results page) has been soaring in recent years, jumping 29 percent in 2014 and 33 percent in 2015. The growth of YouTube (which also falls under Google's umbrella), combined with steady global expansion and higher mobile traffic, are driving that growth.

[Read: Google Stock or Apple Stock? Why Investors Should Choose Both.]

Cost-per-click (CPC), however, has been falling for the same reasons: advertisers pay less for YouTube and mobile ads. Still, CPC fell just 15 percent last year and 7 percent the year before, so as long as paid clicks continue to advance far more quickly, GOOG will put up big growth numbers.

That said, the search giant is trying its darndest to diversify its revenue stream, and you can't do that without smart people at the helm. "Alphabet understands that one of the best ways to keep strong momentum in business operations and execution is to have really talented people," says Scott Kessler, equity analyst at CFRA Research.

Kessler cites three recent hires as evidence of the firm's deep commitment to high-level talent: Lyor Cohen, Diane Greene and Ruth Porat.

Cohen, a legendary music industry executive who formerly led Def Jam Recordings and Warner Music Group, was just installed as global head of music for YouTube. Greene, founder of VMWare ( VMW), a virtualization software company, was recruited in 2015 to help lead Google's cloud businesses.

But Alphabet CFO Ruth Porat, who was poached from the same position at Morgan Stanley ( MS), has been the most influential thus far. "Porat has instilled a disciplined approach to spending, which has always been a criticism against Alphabet -- that they spend without a great focus on return on investment," says Josh Olson, technology analyst at Edward Jones.

As far as Wall Street's concerned, Porat's been a great investment, worth every penny of her $70 million pay package that goes through 2019. Since coming aboard, GOOGL stock (there are two share classes) has shot from around $550 to over $800 in under 17 months. That translates to a market capitalization gain of nearly $74 billion.

In order to help grow the non-search side of its business, Google is launching an all-out assault on the hardware market. On Oct. 4, it launched a laundry list of new products.

[Read: Why You Should Buy More Foreign Stocks.]

The highlight of the event was Google's new $649 smartphone, the Pixel, which heavily features Google Assistant, the company's newest AI-powered personal assistant. It also boasts a sleek design, a 12-megapixel camera it claims is the best of any smartphone, unlimited photo and video storage on the cloud via Google Photo, and a prominently advertised headphone jack.

"It's obviously squarely aimed at Apple and the iPhone," Kessler says.

Google also introduced a virtual reality headset, a new Chromecast Ultra, a smart wi-fi router and a product called Google Home. In fact, GOOG has been feeling mighty pugilistic recently, because the Google Home is another blatant attempt to go head-to-head with a major competitor: Amazon.com ( AMZN). The $129 Google Home is an AI-powered home speaker and personal assistant -- eerily similar to the $179 Amazon Echo.