http://www.theguardian.com/politics/2016/sep/18/labour-to-propose-treating-racism-in-same-way-as-party-disloyalty
10
1
Proposed Labour party rules that would make racism and antisemitism as serious an offence as supporting another party will be voted on at its annual conference next week, Jeremy Corbyn has said.

The Labour leader said the plans put forward by the Jewish Labour movement to put racial discrimination on an equal footing with disloyalty – which can result in expulsion from the party – will come to the floor at the Liverpool conference, which begins on Sunday.

Speaking at a Jewish community leadership hustings in north London, Corbyn said: “Yes it will be going to conference and it follows on from the general anti-racism statement I proposed to the national executive committee some months ago which was actually unanimously agreed by the NEC.

Why Jews in Labour place little trust in Jeremy Corbyn | Joshua Simons Read more

“There’s something really sad that we’re the only political party that’s ever had a statement of general anti-racism.”

Corbyn’s leadership rival, Owen Smith, said he would also back the new rule and suggested it was particularly relevant. “I think particularly the way in which the rule change has been framed does make a very stark point,” Smith said.

“Really I felt it very sharply that we have previously treated supporting an alternative party as a more serious offence than articulating antisemitic or other racist or homophobic, for example, views … That cannot be right.”

Labour has been dogged by allegations of antisemitism since Corbyn took over as leader, with one row leading to the suspension of former London mayor, Ken Livingstone, and temporary suspension of Naz Shah MP.

A subsequent review of racism in the party by Shami Chakrabarti, the former director of Liberty who has since been given a peerage by the Labour leader, was criticised by Jewish leaders and MPs after it found the Labour party “is not overrun by antisemitism, Islamophobia or other forms of racism”.

This antisemitism report deserves Labour’s calm, close attention. No chance | Keith Kahn-Harris Read more

The proposed rule will first have to get through a meeting of the NEC on Tuesday. This would appear to be a formality given that both candidates back it.

The final leadership hustings was held at a Jewish community centre and touched on themes that have been at the centre of scandal in recent months. Candidates were asked about Zionism, antisemitism, faith schools and dwindling Jewish support for the Labour party.

Smith said there had been a “precipitous drop-off” in Jewish support over the last year and that should be “gnawing at our insides”. Corbyn was heckled for apparently avoiding a question about the sharp decline in Jewish Labour voters. “Why aren’t Jews supporting Labour?” and “he hasn’t answered,” were shouted from the audience.

Pushed by moderator Lucy Manning of the BBC, he said some of the issues pre-dated his leadership, adding, “I want everyone to understand this: there is no place in the Labour party for antisemitism of any sort.”

Corbyn faced questions about sharing platforms with Muslim extremists, with someone in the audience shouting out “Press TV” – a reference to his appearances on the Iranian state-TV propaganda channel. He was also pressed on the re-admittance to the party of writer Jackie Walker, and why there had been no apology to victims of abuse at Oxford University Labour club.

When asked why Ken Livingstone had not been banned, Smith said: “I suspect Ken will be let back into the party and I suspect Jeremy didn’t want to suspend him in the first place.”

The event was run by Labour Friends of Israel and the Jewish News and hosted at the JW3 community and culture centre in north London.