https://www.yahoo.com/news/top-asian-news-4-05-m-gmt-040550599.html
62
6
MANILA, Philippines (AP) — The Philippine president has compared his bloody anti-drug campaign, which has left more than 3,000 people dead, to how Hitler massacred millions of Jews, saying he would be "happy to slaughter" 3 million addicts. President Rodrigo Duterte issued his latest threat against drug dealers and users early Friday on arrival in southern Davao city after visiting Vietnam, where he discussed his anti-drug campaign with Vietnamese leaders among other concerns. Duterte says: "Hitler massacred three million Jews ... there's three million drug addicts. There are. I'd be happy to slaughter them." Historians say that 6 million Jews were killed by the Nazis under Hitler before and during World War II.

HANOI, Vietnam (AP) — U.S. Defense Secretary Ash Carter has described the U.S.-Philippines alliance as ironclad, one day after the Philippine president said joint military exercises with the U.S. would end. "As it has been for decades, our alliance with the Philippines is ironclad," Carter said Thursday in a speech in San Diego, en route to a meeting in Hawaii with defense ministers from Southeast Asia, including the Philippines. Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte said Wednesday that joint exercises of Filipino and American troops next week would be the last, although his foreign secretary quickly said the decision was not final. Duterte made the comments while addressing Filipino community members in Hanoi during a two-day visit to Vietnam.

NEW DELHI (AP) — India said Thursday it carried out "surgical strikes" against militants across the highly militarized frontier that divides the Kashmir region between India and Pakistan, in an exchange that escalated tensions between the nuclear-armed neighbors. Pakistan dismissed the reports that India's military had targeted "terrorist launch pads" inside the Pakistan-controlled part of Kashmir. Islamabad said instead that two of its soldiers were killed in "unprovoked" firing by India across the border. Tensions, which are always simmering between India and Pakistan, spiked after an attack earlier this month on an Indian military base in Kashmir. India accused Pakistan of sending militants belonging to the outlawed Jaish-e-Mohammed group, headquartered in Pakistan, to carry out the attack.

KABUL, Afghanistan (AP) — Afghan President Ashraf Ghani signed a peace treaty with a notorious warlord on Thursday, pledging to lobby the U.S. and the United Nations to remove him and his party from terrorist blacklists. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar signed the agreement via a video link into Kabul's presidential palace. The ceremony was broadcast live on television. It is the first peace treaty the Afghan government has completed since the war with the Taliban began in 2001. It has been welcomed by the international community as a possible template for any future peace deal with the Taliban, who have been fighting to overthrow the Kabul government for 15 years.

KABUL, Afghanistan (AP) — Afghanistan's unity government is expected to remain in place despite the formal expiration on Thursday of the U.S.-brokered deal between two electoral rivals whose internal feuding has undermined efforts to battle the Taliban and stabilize the country. The deal was negotiated by U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry in 2014 following elections in which Ashraf Ghani and Abdullah Abdullah claimed victory. The deal made Ghani president, and Abdullah reluctantly accepted the secondary role of chief executive. It obliged the two to govern together for two years, during which time electoral reforms and electronic national identity cards would be introduced and parliamentary and district elections held.

BEIJING (AP) — Six people are reported dead and at least 23 people are still missing after two landslides triggered by a major typhoon swept through separate villages in southeastern China, state media reported. The landslides Wednesday in Zhejiang province, south of Shanghai, are confirmed to have each killed three people, while rescue crews and sniffer dogs continued to search for survivors on Friday. Authorities in the village of Sucun said late Thursday that more than 20 people are still missing. Video published by the official Xinhua News Agency showed fast flood waters carrying rocks and debris rushing down a mountain and into the hamlet.