http://www.4-traders.com/EMPIRE-ENERGY-GROUP-LTD-13919276/news/Empire-Energy-Company-Presentation-McArthur-Basin-23192842/
60
6
ASX Announcement

EMPIRE ENERGY GROUP LIMITED

Level 7, 151 Macquarie Street

Sydney NSW 2000

T: 02 9251 1846

F: 02 9251 0244 (ASX: EEG) (OTCQX: EEGNY)

11 October 2016

COMPANY PRESENTATION - MCARTHUR BASIN

Attached is a presentation given today at the Petroleum Exploration Society of Australia by Dr John Warburton a Director of Imperial Oil & Gas Pty Ltd. The presentation discusses the tectonic and depositional environment, shale quality, analogues, exploration approach and petroleum resource potential in the McArthur Basin.

ABOUT EMPIRE ENERGY GROUP LIMITED

Empire Energy is a conventional oil and natural gas producer with operations in Appalachia (New York and Pennsylvania) and the MidCon (Kansas and Oklahoma). The Company has ~14.6 million acres in the McArthur & Beetaloo Basins, Northern Territory, both of which are considered highly prospective for large shale oil and gas resources. Work undertaken by the Company over the past 5 years demonstrates that the Central Trough of the McArthur Basin, (of which the Company holds around 80%), is a major Proterozoic depo-centre that forms one segment of a series of extensive prolific hydrocarbon basins similar to those extending through Oman, Siberia and Southern China and which contain resources of billions of barrels of oil equivalent.

th

1

Disclaimer

The purpose of this presentation is to provide general information about Empire Energy Group Limited ("Empire Energy") and its 100% owned subsidiary Imperial Oil & Gas Pty Ltd. The presentation contains certain statements which may constitute "forward-looking statements". Such statements are only predictions and are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties which could cause actual values, results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed, implied or projected in any forward-looking statements.

No representation or warranty, express or implied, is made by Empire Energy that the material contained in this presentation will be achieved or prove to be correct. Except for statutory liability which cannot be excluded, each of Empire Energy, its officers, employees and advisers expressly disclaims any responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the material contained in this presentation and excludes all liability whatsoever (including in negligence) for any loss or damage which may be suffered by any person as a consequence of any information in this presentation or any error or omission there from. Empire Energy accepts no responsibility to update any person regarding any inaccuracy, omission or change in information in this presentation or any other information made available to a person nor any obligation to furnish the person with any further information.

Location