https://www.yahoo.com/news/laguna-announces-letter-intent-carlsbad-120000278.html
60
6
KELOWNA, BC / ACCESSWIRE / October 11, 2016 / Laguna Blends Inc. (CSE:LAG) (LAGBF) (Frankfurt:LB6A.F) (the "Company" or "Laguna", is pleased to announce that it has signed a letter of intent (the "LOI") with Carlsbad Naturals ("Carlsbad") whereby Laguna and Carlsbad plan to enter into an equity acquisition and exclusive licence agreement ("Equity and License Agreement") for the purpose of pursuing mutually beneficial business opportunities in the Cannabidiol (CBD) bottled water Industry and CBD ingestible products Industry (the "Proposed Transaction").

Carlsbad is a market leader in the distribution and sales of nano-amplified CBD bottled water in the USA. The Company has a proprietary process of incorporating CBD into its formulation. Carlsbad Naturals has achieved unaudited U.S. sales in excess of $500,000 in its first year of business as of August 31, 2016.

The hemp cannabinoid innovator, Isodiol, sources nano-amplified hemp CBD to manufacturers to create unique finished products. Isodiol is a shareholder in Carlsbad.

"We are proud to announce the alignment of Laguna Blends and Carlsbad Naturals," states Jared Berry, co-Founder of Carlsbad Naturals. "Laguna Blends' extensive client base and distribution network will fulfill the growing demand for hemp CBD products worldwide."

Mr. Stuart Gray, Laguna's CEO said, "With the growing awareness and market demand of CBD worldwide Laguna is positioning itself to be a market leader in the sale of CBD bottled water. In addition to the current sales growth of Carlsbad, Laguna can generate CBD water sales through its existing affiliates in the USA and Canada. Laguna currently is in discussions internationally with wholesale distributors regarding Carlsbad white label opportunities."

Mr. Ray Grimm, Laguna's President stated, "The partnership with Carlsbad, firmly solidifies Laguna as a unique player in the crowded multibillion dollar bottled water industry. The team of Doctors that formulated the Carlsbad water did so with the sole purpose of creating a high alkaline water offering the benefits of CBD. Many believe this to be the next evolution in the water industry, providing unique health benefits due to the proprietary nanotechnology. Carlsbad CBD water provides antioxidants at the cellular level along with providing cellular hydration and energy."

"Carlsbad Naturals' all-natural hemp CBD nano-amplified water has been a game changer for the people who frequent our location," states Larry Banegas, founder of the Kuseyaay Wellness Center on the Barona reservation. "Since the beginning of time, indigenous people have always been in tune with nature and sought benefits from plant botanicals. With today's natural retail products, however, consistency can be difficult to achieve. The formulators of Carlsbad Naturals' water have achieved consistency and quality at the highest level. It doesn't get more natural than this. Visitors to our facility have come to rely on an ample supply of this unique bottled water."

Pursuant to the terms of the Proposed Transaction, Laguna will have the ability to acquire majority control of the Company with total equity interest of sixty percent (60%). Laguna will initially purchase nineteen percent (19%) equity interest in Carlsbad for a one-time payment of $570,000 USD (paid for in Laguna common shares). Laguna will then have a 120-day option from the date of a signed definitive agreement to acquire an additional forty-one percent (41%) interest for $1,230,000 USD (paid in shares and cash). The common shares issued are subject to a six month hold and a lock up leak out agreement.

After completion of the first 19% equity interest in Carlsbad, Laguna, will receive exclusive Carlsbad Naturals marketing rights for CBD water in the following regions: Canada, Germany, Japan, India, South Korea and Thailand. In addition, Laguna will have nonexclusive marketing rights in the USA. Laguna will have the ability to negotiate the transfer of marketing rights and or white label CBD water rights in these regions under the terms of the agreement.

In addition, after completion of the first 19% equity interest in Carlsbad, Laguna will also receive the exclusive network marketing rights for VitaDots, CBD Gummies and nonexclusive retail and online marketing rights for VitaDots in the following regions: USA, Canada, Germany, Japan, South Korea and Thailand. In addition, Laguna will have the right to transfer the non- exclusive ownership rights to a third party at its discretion and negotiate white label opportunities.