http://www.dailymail.co.uk/indiahome/indianews/article-3767761/Justice-Dhingra-s-report-Haryana-land-deals-including-Robert-Vadra-s-finds-irregularities.html
61
6
But the former judge stressed that he found 'no evidence of wrongdoing'

A former judge tasked with investigating controversial land deals - including one involving Congress chief Sonia Gandhi’s son-in-law Robert Vadra - has found 'irregularities', but no evidence of wrongdoing.

Justice S N Dhingra, who was appointed by the Haryana government, submitted his 182-page report into land transactions in Gurugram during the Congress's reign to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar yesterday (Wednesday).

The judge, assigned the task 15 months ago, told the media: 'Had there been no irregularity I would have given a one-sentence report, mentioning there is no irregularity. My report has 182 pages.

Justice SN Dhingra submits his inquiry report on land deals in Haryana during the previous government to the state’s Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar in Chandigarh

'I have named each and every person involved, whether private or government.'

The one-man panel was set up to probe the grant of licenses for commercial and residential projects in Sector 83 of Gurugram between 2005 and 2014, when the Congress was in power and Bhupinder Singh Hooda was the chief minister.

Later, its ambit was expanded to four villages - Sihi, Shikohpur, Sikanderpur Badha, and Kherki Daula.

Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said: 'I have received the Dhingra commission report today, which will be examined.'

The controversy around Vadra is based on a 3.5 acre plot in Gurugram that a company owned by him bought in 2008 for Rs 7.5 crore, and sold months later for Rs 58 crore to realty major DLF Ltd, which has denied any violation.

The transactions of Sonia Gandhi’s son-in-law Robert Vadra (left) were under scrutiny

The Congress says Vadra is a private citizen engaged in business and hasn’t done anything wrong.

But rivals point towards the enormous surge in his wealth during the Congress years, allegedly on the back of sweetheart loans handed out to him by DLF.

'There is not a whisper of any allegations of any wrongdoing, any wrong policy or any violation of any rule,' said the party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala, who was a minister in the Hooda government.

'The BJP governments at the Centre and in Haryana have run a political agenda of vendetta and revenge for years.'

The BJP used the issue to drive a voter revolt against the Congress on its way to a landslide win in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls.

In its report for 2013-14, tabled in the Haryana assembly in 2015, the Comptroller and Auditor General came down heavily on the town and country planning department, as well as the Hooda government, for helping builders.

The Dhingra commission was to probe the subsequent transfer or disposal of the land, allegations of private enrichment, ineligibility of beneficiaries under the rules, and other related issues, bringing Vadra’s land deal under the scanner.

Haryana government spokesperson Raman Malik told Mail Today that the state government will study the report and take action, as well as submitting it in the assembly.

'The action against any culprits will be taken under law and based on the recommendations of the panel report and not for political vendetta,' he said.

Former CM Hooda termed it a 'witch-hunt' by the BJP government.