http://www.independent.ie/business/irish/owner-of-irish-mushroom-company-blames-brexit-for-closure-which-puts-70-people-out-of-work-35010944.html
60
6
The owner of a mushroom company has blamed the Brexit vote in the UK for the closure of his business which has put 70 people out of work.

The owner of a mushroom company has blamed the Brexit vote in the UK for the closure of his business which has put 70 people out of work.

The owner of a mushroom company has blamed the Brexit vote in the UK for the closure of his business which has put 70 people out of work.

Fianna Fáil have called for support for the mushroom sector which has been left vulnerable by the fall in value of the pound sterling and said 3,500 jobs are at risk nationwide.

Peter McDonald of Schiele and McDonald Mushrooms in Tipperary town told his staff Wednesday morning of the decision to shut down the business which has been going for 17 years. “We weren’t able to cope with the devaluation of the English pound as a result of the Brexit vote,” Mr McDonald said. “It’s a business with a very tight margin as it is.”

He said margins were small in the mushroom industry in general, and most of the trade is with the UK, leaving the sector particularly vulnerable following the UK’s referendum decision to leave the EU. “It’s down to price. Your price is based on the strength of sterling… The whole thing is further compounded by the fact that Brexit has not only devalued the pound but brought a lot of uncertainty with it. That brings a lack of confidence.”

He said the referendum result had led to the business losing between €10,000 and €12,000 per week. Schiele and McDonald Mushrooms started with 12 people in 1999 and grew to the point where, until yesterday, it employed 70 people and exported most of its growth of 1.5 million kg of mushrooms to the UK. It was one of the largest employers in the Tipperary town area, which has seen a number of industry closures in recent years.

However, McDonald said the last two or three years had been difficult. “In a family business there’s a lot more love in it than money at times. The mark-up has been significantly reduced over the years. We’ve had increased produced costs and reduced prices in an overall sense. Peter McDonald told the workers yesterday morning that the company was closing down, with immediate effect and said it was “a very emotive morning, and very upsetting for everybody involved” in the business. “We’re like a little big family here.”

He said he wanted to help the employees secure all of their redudancy entitlements. Fianna Fáil spokesman on horticulture and food, and local TD, Jackie Cahill said that mushroom farmers throughout the country, who export about 90pc of their produce across the Irish Sea, have seen their margins “shredded” in recent times.

He said 3,500 jobs are at risk in 60 mushroom companies nationwide “if these challenges with sterling exchange rates continue” and called on the minister for agriculture and food to provide support to the sector.

Online Editors