http://www.thedailystar.net/backpage/11-bangladeshis-be-sent-back-home-soon-1278724
60
6
Eleven Bangladeshis, including two minors, who are currently in a detention centre in Assam state of India, will be deported to Bangladesh soon, a senior state administration official said yesterday.

The Bangladesh government agreed to take back its nine nationals from Silchar detention centre. They will be sent back after the state government gives its final clearance for the deportation, Cachar Deputy Commissioner S Viswanathan said.

The issue of deporting inmates staying in Indian detention centres was discussed at length during the deputy commissioners/magistrates' meeting last year at Moulvibazar in Bangladesh. A list of detainees was then handed to the deputy commissioners of Sylhet and Moulvibazar.

Upon verification of the nine detainees' nationality, Bangladesh agreed to accept them who include two minor children of one Arati Das, Viswanathan told PTI in Silchar.

"With this initial step, we are confident that the rest of the detainees will also be deported. Though the process is slow we are happy that the issue is being sorted out," he said.

Meanwhile, more than one kg of suspected heroin was seized yesterday in Lalgola area of Murshidabad district when an unknown person was trying to smuggle it into Bangladesh from India, according to the Indian Border Security Force.

The BSF had received specific information about the movement of smugglers along with a consignment of narcotics near the border area under Lalgola Police Station.

A search team was observing the movement along the Indo-Bangla border when it noticed a person trying to throw a bag over the international border fence, the BSF said in a statement. Border security members then challenged the person but he managed to disappear into the dark.

Searching the area, law enforcers found a polythene bag containing 13 small plastic packets with 1,300 grams in total of brown colour powder suspected to be heroin. The items have been handed over to Lalgola police for further scrutiny, according to the statement.