http://www.newsday.co.tt/news/0,233851.html
64
6
A d v e r t i s e m e n t

Concerns over father’s incarceration

By SEAN DOUGLAS Thursday, September 29 2016

JEROME HENRY, 34, has been languishing in the Port-of-Spain prison for almost a month due to complications in accessing bail while he awaits trial on charges of wilful neglect of a child. Henry’s son Josiah, five, drowned after being washed away in flood waters in a canal near the family’s Belmont house on September 2.

Henry is charged under the Children’s Act for leaving Josiah and his seven-year-old sister Christine Gray unattended, to go to work.



Yesterday, Henry’s sister Joanne Henry, was assured of assistance to free her brother on bail by social activist Harvey Borris, chairman of the Centre for Justice and the Black Caucus Movement, at his office at Abercromby Street, Port-of-Spain. Borris told Newsday that prison officers told him of the deep anguish that Henry is going through in jail on top of the pain of losing a child, whose funeral Henry was not been allowed to attend, by the authorities.



Joanne said the court had placed her brother on $75,000 bail or an alternative 15,000 cash bail. However securing of bail has been delayed by the court, allegedly issuing a document slightly different to the warrant possessed by the prison authorities.



“Because of the mix-up they had us back and forth for a week (between court and jail).” On top of this, she alleged that the court declined to accept a valuation document proffered for her aunt’s property.



All this had led Joanne herself trying to raise the cash alternative bail by holding a bar-b-que.



Borris told Newsday, “We can’t just leave the gentleman to languish and suffer in prison. I have decided to help him and I will get it done.” Borris contacted Newsday last night to say he expects to raise the cash bail by today. He also revealed that attorney Keith Scotland has agreed to represent Henry pro bono (no fee) and appointed his co-counsel Sheriza Khan, to the matter. Laventille West MP Fitzgerald Hinds has criticised Henry’s arrest and his being denied the opportunity to attend his own son’s funeral as being “highly insensitive.”



