http://thezimbabwemail.com/zimbabwe-2967-grace-mugabe-in-singapore-intensive-care-unit.html
63
6
HARARE- First Lady, Grace Mugabe’s appendectomy operation in Singapore last month did not go well, resulting in her alleged admittance into intensive care, as doctors are now reportedly battling to save her life, The Telescope News, has been told.

It was not apparent last night, whether the first lady was out of danger, amid claims by a media contact in the Asian country on Wednesday that, Grace also could be suffering from septicemia, as her real medical problems remain a mystery.

“There is not much information here either, but what we have heard is that Mugabe’s wife was admitted into ICU in January, and she is in a critical condition,” said the contact who covers health and science issues for a weekly publication.

“Furthermore, grapevine has it that she is suffering from septicemia, or blood poisoning.”

Medical journals, state septicemia is bacteria in the blood that often occurs with severe infections. It is a serious, life-threatening infection that gets worse very quickly, and can arise from infections throughout the body, including infections in the lungs, abdomen, and urinary tract.

Mugabe told his Zanu PF supporters gathered to welcome him at the Harare International Airport in January, from his annual holiday, that Grace had undergone an operation to remove her appendix, and is out of hospital resting, with new details however suggesting that the Zanu PF leader could have been economic with the truth, and did not want to raise alarm about the first lady’s real condition.

How an appendix is removed during an operation

Get it out: How an appendix is removed during an operation.

“She did not know for a long time what the problem was. She is out of hospital now. She came out the day before yesterday and she is resting,” said Mugabe.

Eyes will be wide open from the citizenry, to see if Grace will be able to fly back into the country this month, possibly before the end of next week, so as to prepare and attend Mugabe’s 91th birthday on February 21. A birthday party is planned in Victoria Falls, to mark the trademark celebrations.

As first reported in The Telescope News, on 27 January 2015, Grace is still bed-ridden at a private hospital, and the first family has reportedly requested a press-blackout, thus explaining the dead silence of the Singapore press and even State media in Harare on Grace’s current health situation.

This publication, first broke the story about the first lady’s mysterious health woes on the 16th of May 2014, and we also reported that Mugabe was not the one receiving treatment, in Singapore at the time, but the wife, as State media moved to cover up the issue.

A government information official denied this week, that Grace is in intensive care, maintaining that:”The President’s word on the matter is final.” – The Telescope