http://nation.lk/online/2016/09/03/economic-brief-4.html
60
6
Business implications of RTI

The Ceylon Chamber of Commerce will hold a seminar on Monday (5) titled “Right to Information and its Implications for Business,” and will line up three expert speakers to deliberate on the new law that was introduced, recently. The seminar will provide insights into, how businesses can use the RTI law to advance their ability to engage with the government and improve decision making and also detail the process of obtaining information under RTI, explore RTI’s key implications for businesses and identify opportunities and pitfalls associated with the law.

Ms. Sabrina Esufally, who is a‎n Analyst and Head of Law of Verité Research, Asoka Obeyesekere, Executive Director of Transparency International Sri Lanka and Mrs. Dilani Alagaratnam, President of HR, Legal, Sustainability and ERM of John Keells Holdings will speak at this seminar. The session chair would be Mrs. Dhara Wijayatilake, CEO of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce.

Energy through solid waste

The government has decided to lease out a land of 10 acres in Muthurajawela for a project of generating energy through solid waste. This is following a proposal made by Minister Patali Champika Ranawaka to lease out the land owned by the Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development Corporation for 30 years to a private company for implementing a project for generating electricity through solid waste as a solution to the waste disposal issue.

Japan-Sri Lanka Secretariat

The government is to establish the Japan – Sri Lanka Joint Comprehensive Partnership Secretariat in Colombo and Tokyo for facilitating the areas of advanced agriculture, science and technology for industries, advanced infrastructure and regional development, education and human resources development, and civil security and safety.

JICA development policy loan

The government last week decided to sign exchange notes with the government of Japan to obtain development policy loan of Japanese Yen 10,000 (approximately Rs. 14,453 million) and to enter into a loan agreement with JICA to provide funds for the development process of the government. This will be utilized for the improvement of public resources management and facilitating public-private competition.

ADB help to compile stats

The Asian Development Bank (ADB) last week said it is working with the government of Sri Lanka to improve the way they compile statistics. One of the projects promotes the use of computer-assisted personal interviewing or CAPI. This improves the accuracy of results and reduces the time and money spent on field data collection.

It will help national statistical offices to use CAPI to improve the scope, quality, and timeliness of national survey results linked to the SDGs.

The interviewer uses a hand held device, such as a tablet or a mobile phone, with the survey questions preloaded. The answers can be quickly sent back to the national statistics office via the internet and can also integrate the location, time, photographs, and audio and video recordings. The system automatically checks for data errors, irregularities, and gaps while the interview is being conducted.