http://www.4-traders.com/news/Presidency-of-Republic-of-South-Africa-President-Zuma-arrives-in-Kenya-for-State-Visit--23193468/
60
6
11 October 2016

President Jacob Zuma has arrived in Nairobi, Republic of Kenya for his State Visit. The visit will enable South Africa to deepen economic, political, cultural and social relations with Kenya, the leading economy in the East African region.

The visit will further provide a platform for both countries to review progress on key areas of bilateral cooperation, which include amongst others: trade and investment; agriculture; tourism and infrastructure development.

The two Heads of State will exchange views on important regional, continental and global issues of mutual concern.

Kenya is an important partner for South Africa in the advancement of inter- and intra-African trade and investment. South Africa is Kenya's fourth source of imports, with South African exports amounting to R 8.3 billion and imports to R366 million in 2015.

Currently, over 60 South African companies are operating in Kenya and South Africa is the 6th largest investor in Kenya after China, United Kingdom, United States of America, India and Nigeria; and the largest trading partner on the continent outside the SADC region. Further opportunities exist for strengthening the economic ties through optimising investment opportunities in the mutually identified areas of energy, infrastructure development, blue economy and retail.

The two countries are scheduled to sign Agreements and Memoranda of Understanding in the fields of Defence, Police, Home Affairs, Environment; Revenue Services; and infrastructure development under the Lamu-South Sudan-Ethiopia Transport Corridor (LAPSSET). The signing of these instruments are an indication of South Africa's determination to enhance the bilateral relations and serves as confirmation of its desire to forge a strategic partnership with Kenya.

During the visit President Zuma will also address South Africa-Kenya Business Forum, on 11th October 2016, which will provide a platform to further explore investment and trade opportunities between the two countries and support the interaction between the public and private sectors of South Africa and Kenya.

President Zuma is accompanied by Ms Maite Nkoana-Mashabane, Minister of International Relations and Cooperation; Ms Lynne Brown, Minister of Public Enterprise; Mr Malusi Gigaba, Minister of Home Affairs; Mr Nathi Nhleko, Minister of Police; Ms Edna Molewa, Minister of Environmental Affairs; and Ms Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula, Minister of Defence and Military Veterans.

Enquiries: Dr Bongani Ngqulunga on 082 308 9373 or bongani@presidency.gov.za

Issued by: The Presidency

Pretoria