https://www.yahoo.com/news/issuer-direct-present-sponsor-5th-154500560.html
61
6
MORRISVILLE, NC / ACCESSWIRE / October 11, 2016 / Issuer Direct Corporation (NYSE MKT: ISDR) announced today that Brian Balbirnie, the Company's Chief Executive Officer, and Michael Colon, VP of Corporate Development and head of our Regulation A + practice, will moderate and be a panelist respectively on the Regulation A Plus panel at the fifth annual Global Crowdfunding Convention in Las Vegas on October 15-17, 2016.

Issuer Direct will also be unveiling its new Crowdfunding platform powered by its Investor Network brand. This platform will address the needs of companies thinking about raising capital under regulation A+ all the way through public listing and IPO. "In order to build a network large enough to benefit from RegA+ you have to start by introducing your company to the right prospective investors, at the right time," said Michael Colon, VP of Corporate Development. "Our crowdfunding platform gives entrepreneurs access to the only complete test-to-invest platform on the market today."

Others who are on the GCC's keynote speaker roster include: Vladimir I. Ivanov, Ph.D., SEC-Senior Financial Economist; Loral Langemeier, five time New York Times best seller; Andrew Dix, CEO of Crowdfund Insider; Craig Denlinger, Crowdfund CPA, Partner; Brad Yasar, GCC Partner; Jilliene Helman, CEO and co-founder of RealtyMogul.com; Allesandro Lero, founder of Italy's Lerro & Partners; and Lisa Song Sutton, Miss Nevada 2014/Entrepreneur.

With a world-class roster of industry heavy-hitters, the 2016 Global Crowdfunding Convention is an event not to be missed. For more information on the event and to purchase tickets, please visit: www.thegccworld.com.

About the Global Crowdfunding Convention

The Global Crowdfunding Convention (GCC) consistently hand picks the best and the brightest in the field and covers all topics of crowdfunding. Produced by Crowdfunding industry experts, it attracts the world's business leaders to discuss the industry's most pressing issues.

About Issuer Direct Corporation

Issuer Direct® is a disclosure management and targeted communications company. Our integrated platform provides tools, technologies and services that enable our clients to disclose and disseminate information through our entire network. With a focus on corporate issuers, the Company alleviates the complexity of maintaining compliance with its integrated portfolio of products and services that enhance companies' ability to efficiently produce and distribute their financial and business communications both online and in print.

Learn more about Issuer Direct today: Investor Tear Sheet.

For Further Information:

Issuer Direct Corporation

Brian R. Balbirnie

919-481-4000

brian.balbirnie@issuerdirect.com



Brett Maas

Hayden IR

(646) 536-7331

brett@haydenir.com



James Carbonara

Hayden IR

(646)-755-7412

james@haydenir.com



SOURCE: Issuer Direct Corporation