http://classic.iol.co.za/news/crime-courts/clergy-weighs-in-on-feesmustfall-after-priest-shot-1.2078721
62
6
INDEPENDENT MEDIA The protest at Wits University's Braamfontein campus spilled out into the streets on Monday. Picture: Antoine de Ras

Johannesburg - The Society of Jesus (Jesuits) on Tuesday said that Father Graham Pugin was recovering well after receiving medical treatment following his shooting during a #FeesMustFall protest that turned violent at the University of Witswatersrand (Wits).

Pugin was shot in the face by a rubber bullet on Monday, while standing at the gate of the Holy Trinity Catholic Church where he had offered sanctuary to Wits students who were being pursued by police officers.

In a statement, regional superior of the Jesuits in South Africa, Father David Rowan, said the society had received overwhelming support and well-wishes for Pugin. “The Society of Jesuits are grateful for the concern that has been shown after the incident. We have received many prayers, well wishes and offers of assistance from across society,” Rowan said.

“We have also received support from the Jesuits General Congregation meeting in Rome at present and the Vatican Ambassador to South Africa.”

Pugin has been one of the facilitators, along with other clergy and former student leaders, working towards and agreement between the students, management and other stakeholders at Wits.

Wits SRC said Graham's shooting was one of the most jarring incidents, especially in the eyes of the public, and displayed the brutality shown by the police towards a peaceful clergyman. “Father Graham's only crime was to attempt to create a safe haven and neutral space for all on the grounds of the Holy Trinity Catholic Church next to Wits University, a space where students could enter without fear of violence, a place of refuge, or so we thought,” Wits SRC said in a statement.

“Father Graham was shot while his hands were up in the air, peacefully trying to prevent the police from entering the church grounds with an Nyala. This type of police brutality has become a daily reality for the students of Wits University, in our own home at the hands of our abusive father Professor Adam Habib.”

The Society of Jesuits also weighed in on the #FeesMustFall issue, with Rowan saying that they were concerned by the sense of distrust between all the role players as the negotiation process has stalled. “The high security presence and clashes between police and students have also heightened tensions, making negotiations much more difficult,” Rowan said.

“We believe there needs to be a national mediation effort to resolve the fees issue and stabilise the situation on campuses.”

Rowan also said they noted the establishment of a national task team on the fees crisis but they believed that this alone will not deal with the problem. “We believe there needs to be a concerted effort, involving all sectors of society, to deal with the historical context and systematic problems which make higher education inaccessible and unaffordable to millions of poor South Africans.”

African News Agency

IOL News on Facebook

IOL on Twitter

Get our free IOL newsletters - subscribe here...

Related Stories