http://washpost.bloomberg.com/Story?docId=1376-OEUPP06JTSEO01-0UK6A2MB8RCNVPEVPGTC54K6J9
61
6
(Bloomberg) -- After eight months of shopping around assets, Duke Energy Corp. is getting out of the Latin American business.

The Charlotte, North Carolina-based power generator reached deals on Monday to sell all of its operations in South and Central America for about $1.6 billion in cash. China Three Gorges Corp. is buying its Brazilian plants for about $780 million, and New York-based private equity group I Squared Capital is purchasing its businesses in Peru, Chile, Ecuador, Guatemala, El Salvador and Argentina for about $850 million.

Duke is unloading Latin American assets as political uncertainty, currency fluctuations and drought in the region make profits unpredictable. Instead, it’s joining other U.S. utilities including American Electric Power Co. and PPL Corp. in seeking more stable growth through regulated businesses.

“The bigger picture here is that they are getting these transactions done and moving forward as a nearly fully-regulated company,” Andrew B. Smith, a St. Louis-based utilities analyst for Edward Jones, said, adding that the combined deal value was within the range investors were expecting. “That’s what investors were waiting to see.”

Duke said it expects the deal with China Three Gorges to close in two to four months with the other slated for the first half of 2017.

The assets that I Squared Capital is buying include hydroelectric and natural gas-fired power plants that can produce a total of 2,300 megawatts, transmission lines and gas-processing operations. The deal includes about $350 million in debt, Duke said.

I Squared partner Adil Rahmathulla said the firm is looking to “take advantage of strong, macro fundamentals in Peru and Chile and the prospects for investments in renewables.” The deal gives the global infrastructure investor an “immediate scale and size” in the region, he said.

“Building that from scratch would take a much longer time,” Rahmathulla said, adding that his group is interested in buying more assets in North America, western Europe and India.

Hydroelectric Plants

The collection China Three Gorges is buying includes eight hydroelectric plants that can produce 2,057 megawatts and two hydroelectric plants with a capacity of 16.5 megawatts each. That deal includes about $420 million in debt.

Duke, meanwhile, just closed its $4.9 billion acquisition of Piedmont Natural Gas Co. Inc., a gas utility in North Carolina.

“Our strategic transformation is gathering more momentum as we exit the Latin American market to focus on our domestic regulated core business,” Duke Energy Chief Executive Officer Lynn Good said in a statement.

Duke’s financial advisers in both Latin America deals were Credit Suisse Group AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co.

--With assistance from Jim Polson and Lynn Doan To contact the reporter on this story: Mark Chediak in San Francisco at mchediak@bloomberg.net. To contact the editors responsible for this story: Lynn Doan at ldoan6@bloomberg.net, Dan Reichl

©2016 Bloomberg L.P.