http://www.iraqsun.com/index.php/sid/247151449
60
6
Turkey intensifies offensive in northern Syria, dozens killed

Iraq Sun Monday 29th August, 2016

• Turkey-backed Syrian rebels took charge of several villages, towns in Syria

• Turkish military said its warplanes killed Kurdish 'terrorists'

• Turkey's operation is also targeted at pushing back U.S.-allied Kurdish forces

BEIRUT, Lebanon - Turkey-supported Syrian rebels took charge of several villages and towns in northern Syria on Sunday amid Turkish bombing that reportedly killed at least 35 people.

Various divisions of the Turkey-backed Syrian rebels said Sunday they had seized four villages and one town from Kurdish-led forces. The rebels later posted pictures from inside the villages.

Turkey last week sent tanks across the border to assist Syrian rebels push the Islamic State out of the frontier town of Jarablus, in a sharp escalation of the nation's involvement in the Syrian civil war. Turkish leaders have made it clear that they would see to it both the Islamic State and the Kurdish People's Protection Units were driven away from the border.

Reports stated that at least three Turkish jets flew into Syria amid heavy Turkish shelling from inside Syrian territory on Sunday morning.

The operation, dubbed Euphrates Shield, is also targeted at pushing back U.S.-allied Kurdish forces.

In a statement, Turkish military said its warplanes killed 25 Kurdish "terrorists", and demolished five buildings used by the fighters in retaliation to resistance on the rebels in the Jarablus area. A Turkish soldier was reportedly killed by a Kurdish rocket attack, in what is perhaps the first such casualty in the offensive that is into its fifth day.

Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said the bombing killed at least 20 civilians and 19 Kurdish-led fighters in different villages.

ANHA, the news agency of the Kurdish semi-autonomous areas, claimed Beir Khoussa "reportedly lost all its residents."

U.S.-backed Syria Democratic Forces spokesman Shervan Darwish said the attacks killed a number of civilians in Beir Khoussa and adjoining areas. He added that around 50 Turkish tanks have been pressed into action.

Syria's state news agency SANA reported that 20 civilians were killed and 50 injured in Turkish shelling and airstrikes. The agency termed it Turkish "encroachment" on Syrian sovereignty in the garb of fighting the Islamic State.