http://www.4-traders.com/WTI-2355639/news/U-S-Trade-Gap-Expanded-in-August-Due-To-Olympic-Rights-Oil-23166057/
61
6
By Eric Morath and Ben Leubsdorf

WASHINGTON--The U.S. trade deficit expanded in August because growth in imports, including Olympic broadcast rights and crude oil, outpaced the gain in exports.

The trade gap increased 3.0% from a month earlier to a seasonally adjusted $40.73 billion in August, the Commerce Department said Wednesday. Imports rose 1.2%, exports rose 0.8%.

Economists surveyed by The Wall Street Journal expected a deficit of $39.2 billion in August.

Of the $2.6 billion overall increase in imports during the month, $1.2 billion came from charges for the use of intellectual property, reflecting payments to broadcast the 2016 Summer Olympic Games, the Commerce Department said.

And imports of crude oil, by volume, in August reached the highest level since January 2014.

Broadly, the latest data indicate that international-trade activity is modestly improving. International trade was a drag on U.S. economic growth last year. A strong dollar and struggling economies in Europe and parts of Asia made it difficult for U.S. firms to increase sales of products abroad. And steady domestic consumer spending provided a market for international imports, which subtract from gross domestic product.

In the first half of 2016 trade provided a small boost to GDP, but economic growth was still sluggish, growing at roughly a 1% annualized pace. The economy has grown at a 2.1% average annual rate since the recession ended in mid-2009.

Through the first eight months of this year, the trade deficit decreased 1.3%. Imports decreased 3.6% compared to the same period a year earlier, and exports fell 4.1%.

In August, imports of services, including Olympic rights, reached the highest level on record.

Crude-oil imports, as measured in dollars, rose in August from July on a non-seasonally adjusted basis, but remain down from a year earlier. The volume of barrels imported daily during the month was 8.3 million, up from 7.1 million in August 2015.

The export gain during the month reflected shipments of nonmonetary gold and automobiles and parts. But exports of capital goods were the lowest since September 2011.

Soybean shipments rose slightly in August after a big July jump.

Bumper harvests of soybeans in the U.S., crop shortfalls in South America and solid demand--especially from China--have propelled international feed sales. Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics, said last week that soybean exports alone could be a major contributor to firmer third-quarter economic growth.

The Commerce Department report on trade can be found at http://www.census.gov/ft900.

Write to Eric Morath at eric.morath@wsj.com and Ben Leubsdorf at ben.leubsdorf@wsj.com.