http://www.vanguardngr.com/2016/09/enugu-lifeline-old-people/
17
1
By Chinweoke Akoma

Lifeline came the way of Old People’s Home located in Achara Layout, Enugu State. The home, built by the White Sisters Missionary in 1975 before it was handed over the Nigerian Missionary Sisters had continued to suffer hardship due to inadequate attention particularly as many rarely remember that such place existed.

Although the home was built purely for charity to help the elderly people, it can only accommodate 48-50 inmates including the4 staff.

Sunday Vanguard learnt that the inmates of the how, which only last year marked its 40th anniversary, shed tears of joy when members of Enugu Progressive Social Club of Nigeria visited them as part of their annual presentation of foodstuff, dresses and cash to the inmates. Some of the excited inmates danced and sang their gratitude to the club members.

A similar scenario played out at the Enugu Cheshire Home when members of the club also paid a visit to the home.Such is the character of the Enugu Progressive Social Club of Nigeria, a high profile club in the coal state, made up of men. There is this mistaken belief that the club is made up of Enugu indigenes alone. Far from it.

The club is made up of people from every part of the country particularly from the south eastern part of country. For instance, the club’s National President, Chief Kenneth Ofordile (Looloo), hails from Ezeagu local government of Enugu State while his vice, Chief Mos Okeke, (Onwa Ide), is from Idemili local government area of Anambra State. The PRO, Mazi Omife I. Omife, Mbuze Mbaukwu, is from Awka South local government area of Anambra.

The club is well known for its philanthropic activities, conflict resolution and peace initiatives which have impacted on the socio-political stability of Enugu and the south east zone in general. But whereas the core purpose of the club is philanthropy and charity, the Enugu Progressive Social Club of Nigeria is in the frontline for a better society.

According to Ofordile, just like other notable other social clubs in the country, it is working assiduously to reduce the suffering of masses and the less privileged in the society in various forms, including educational scholarship to indigent students, donation to charity homes and payment of medical bills of indigent patients in hospitals.