http://www.nation.co.ke/counties/nyeri/Gachagua-to-appear-before-Senate-on-impeachment-row/1954190-3378818-v0cg21/
60
6
By GRACE GITAU

More by this Author

The row between Nyeri Governor Nderitu Gachagua and local MPs has escalated into a full scale political battle ahead of the Senate hearing on the impeachment bid that starts today.

Today, MCAs are expected to lay the case against the governor before the whole Senate, which opted to hear the impeachment case instead of constituting a committee as has been the case with others.

Ward representatives have accused the governor of irregular procurement processes, misuse of funds and failure to appoint enough executives and failing to assent to the Sh6.4 billion budget.

On Wednesday, Mr Gachagua will get another date with the Senate, after which senators will go on a retreat on Thursday to look into the issues.

They will then decide whether or not to send the governor home.

As the Senate sits, the battle between Mr Gachagua and MPs continues.

The dispute came to the fore when six lawmakers issued a statement on September 1 supporting his impeachment.

Lawmakers have cited misuse of funds and corruption as the reasons they are opposed to the governor.

“Our differences are embodied on legitimate issues like service delivery, governance and the loss of money,” said Mukurwe-ini MP Kabando wa Kabando.

But also driving the fights are the 2017 elections, the control of Jubilee Party and a fierce campaign by wealthy politicians eyeing the governor’s post.

“The MPs are simply worried about the governor’s decision to identify aspirants for parliamentary seats. But they came in too late. Where were they when the hospitals were closed for two weeks leaving Nyeri Town MP Esther Murugi to face the governor alone?” asked Mr Kamau Gatwechi, who vied for the governor’s seat in 2013.

Mr Gachagua has also irked lawmakers by touring constituencies with the MPs’ 2017 opponents.

In Kieni, a runners-up in the 2013 elections, Mr Wainaina Njoroge, has been accompanying the governor to most events in the constituency even when local MP Kanini Kega is in attendance.

“I do not care who the governor endorses as long as he lets me work,” he said.

Othaya MP Mary Wambui is also angry that the governor criticised her education background.

She also asked Mr Gachagua to stop parading leaders in her constituency while her term was not over.

In Mathira, the governor’s home ground, the incumbent Peter Weru has been in constant wars with the county boss.