http://www.dailymail.co.uk/wires/afp/article-3879638/Fears-rise-Election-Day-intimidation-tactics.html
64
6
Fears rise of Election Day intimidation tactics

With Donald Trump warning darkly of a plot to "steal" the White House from him next month, the specter of intimidation on Election Day, including by vigilante-style armed citizens, is now seen as a serious threat.

Thousands of election observers and civil rights activists are being deployed for the November 8 presidential vote -- while the Republican nominee has urged his supporters to monitor the vote in person to prevent fraud.

The Democratic Party this week asked a judge to block the Republican Party from working with Trump's campaign on so-called "ballot security" measures -- which it says violate a decades-old agreement not to engage in voter intimidation.

The caustic climate surrounding one of the most bitter campaigns in American history, combined with the right in some states to carry weapons at polling places, has raised significant fears of violence ©Nova Safo (AFP/File)

The caustic climate surrounding one of the most bitter campaigns in American history, combined with the right in some states to carry weapons at polling places, has raised significant fears of violence.

In Prince William County, Virginia, just outside the capital Washington, the electoral board weighed a single-day ban on weapons at polling stations -- they are already banned in schools and courts -- but the effort was shot down by a pro-gun state lawmaker.

The powerful National Rifle Association lobby, which endorsed Trump's White House candidacy and vigorously defends Americans' Second Amendment right to bear arms, is headquartered in the state.

"It's up to the owner of the private polling place to forbid it or not," pro-gun Virginia state delegate Robert Marshall told AFP.

More generally, observers have warned of a return of intimidation tactics targeting African Americans, especially in the once-segregationist South, and other minorities.

Those fears have been stoked by Trump's unprecedented claims of a conspiracy to commit fraud in favor of Democrat Hillary Clinton -- prompting his threat not to recognize the outcome if he loses.

The Republican nominee has suggested in particular certain "communities" were planning to cheat -- widely understood to be a reference to African American and Hispanic minorities who overwhelmingly back Trump's rival.

- Blacks and Latinos targeted -

US history is rife with voting restrictions on minorities, though systemic racial discrimination has been illegal since the 1965 Voting Rights Act.

The law, the culmination of efforts by Martin Luther King Jr and other civil rights leaders, requires jurisdictions to obtain US Justice Department authorization before enacting any local electoral reform.

But the very heart of this critical law was partially invalidated in 2013 by the US Supreme Court, which then had a conservative majority, and southern states quickly followed by implementing voter identification laws seen as restricting minority access to the polls.

"This is the first presidential election in 50 years without the full protection of the voting rights act of 1965," Sherrilyn Ifill, president and director-counsel for the Legal Defense and Education Fund of the major civil rights group NAACP, said in an interview.

"The removal of that key provision has led, in the last two-three years, to the proliferation of voting practices and procedures that are designed specifically to inhibit and restrict African Americans, Latinos and other racial minorities from being able to participate equally in the political process."

North Carolina, for example, passed a law in 2013 barring voters from registering to vote on the day they cast their ballots, and requiring a certain type of photo identification.

But a federal court struck down various provisions of the law in July, saying they "target African Americans with almost surgical precision."

In recent months across the country, courts have amended similar pieces of legislation, whose stated aim is to fight electoral fraud.

- Concerns in Deep South -

Activists are calling for maximum vigilance on Election Day.

The American Civil Liberties Union on Thursday issued a special resource to help voters identify and prevent intimidation "in response to heightened concern regarding voter intimidation at polling places."

Ifill's group is also raising the alert over people "who are there to question minority voters about whether in fact they are registered to vote, whether they are eligible to vote, whether they have the proper ID."

Of particular concern, Ifill said, is the prospect of intimidation by people who in many cases are legally entitled to be armed.

She said her group was in constant communication with the Department of Justice to alert them to possible problems.

Efforts need to focus, she said, "on these deep south jurisdictions where a lot of this mischief we expect to happen."

Because of the Supreme Court decision three years ago, the Justice Department will only be able to send specially trained observers in four states, down from 13 in 2012.

The department also plans to send to 25 different states several hundred monitors -- but these would only be allowed to enter polling stations if authorized to do so by local authorities.

Overall, numerous organizations are sending thousands of independent observers and lawyers to ensure fair voting conditions, joining monitors from the Democratic and Republican representatives.

"We will do our best to be there, but the truth is we can't be everywhere on Election Day and so we have real concerns," Ifill said.

Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump urged supporters to monitor the vote in person, while Democrats asked a judge to block the Republican Party from working on "ballot security" because it violates an agreement against voter intimidation ©Joe Raedle (Getty/AFP/File)