http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3801629/South-Korea-confirms-plan-place-target-Kim-Jong-called-Korea-Massive-Punishment-Retaliation-case-plans-nuclear-strike.html
62
6
South Korea has confirmed there are plans in place to take out Kim Jong Un if it becomes clear that he will carry out a nuclear attack.

The plan, called the Korea Massive Punishment and Retaliation, would 'directly target' key North Korean sites - including its war command post - and the country's leadership, if any sign of a nuclear strike was detected.

South Korea defence minister Han Min-koo revealed the plans during a meeting of the country's lawmakers and said that a unit is being assembled.

South Korea has confirmed there are plans in place to take out Kim Jong Un, pictured, if it becomes clear that he will carry out a nuclear attack

He also added that Seoul needs to maintain the number of full-time troops at 500,000 or more to resist a North Korean invasion as their army has as many as 1.2million men.

Han told local news service News 1: 'If it becomes clear the enemy intends to use nuclear-tipped missiles in order to suppress its aims, the concept (of the special forces) is to retaliate against key areas that include the North Korea leadership.'

Also speaking out about the plans was Leem Ho-Young, chief director of strategic planning at Seoul's Joint Chiefs of Staff.

He added: 'We will deploy strike forces with precision-guided missiles and elite special forces.'

The South has no atomic weapons of its own and shelters under the nuclear 'umbrella' of its US ally, which stations 28,500 troops in South Korea.

Earlier this month, North Korea conducted its fifth nuclear test, prompting South Korean and US officials to vow to apply more sanctions and pressure on the North

But there are growing voices calling for the South to have its own nuclear weapons, despite government opposition.

A group of ruling Saenuri Party lawmakers, whose membership is now 24 and growing, was launched last month to push for the country to start preparations for its own nuclear development.

News of the plans come as the U.S. and South Korea are said to be preparing to conduct a mock attack on a nuclear facility amid fears Kim Jong Un will conduct another missile test.

An official with the South Korean Defence Department has told CNN that they and the United States will carry out a joint exercise next month.

The simulation dubbed 'Red Flag will take place in Alaska from October 3 to 21.

The operation will use a GBU-31 Joint Direct Attack Munition, a kit that converts bombs that normally just free-fall from planes into guided munitions.

Kim Jong Un's North Korea has said it needs nuclear weapons and missiles to cope with US military threats

Earlier this month, North Korea conducted its fifth nuclear test, prompting South Korean and US officials to vow to apply more sanctions and pressure on the North.

The test explosion, the most powerful to date, was conducted on the 68th anniversary of the founding of North Korea's government.

The North has already been slapped with the toughest UN sanctions in two decades following its fourth nuclear test in January.

Since late 2012, the North put two satellites into orbit with long-range rockets, each time inviting international sanctions and worldwide condemnation.