http://www.khmertimeskh.com/news/29640/pm--china-will-open-markets/
61
6
Prime Minister Hun Sen said yesterday that China gave assurances that it will grant greater access for Cambodia’s agricultural products to enter its markets.



“It is my mission to ensure that domestic goods, especially agricultural products, can be exported to China in greater quantities. I just completed my three-day trip to China and arrived back in Phnom Penh today. This is the assurance that I have received [from the Chinese],” wrote Mr. Hun Sen on his Facebook page.



Last week, Mr. Hun Sen led a group of delegates and private sector representatives to the 13th Asean-China Expo and the First Cambodia-China Trade and Investment Forum in Nanning city in Southwestern China's Guangxi province.



Hean Vanhan, deputy director of the general department of agriculture, told Khmer Times that the Ministry of Agriculture had also signed a sanitary and phytosanitary (SPS) agreement with China during Mr. Hun Sen’s visit to the Asian-China Expo.



An SPS agreement, in accordance with the World Trade Organization rules, is how governments can apply food safety and animal and plant health measures in their exports.



“I think, from now on we can export our milled rice, mixed with broken rice, after the SPS agreement,” said Mr. Vanhan.



“In addition, we can now also consider to export other agricultural products.”



Last month, Cambodian rice cracker manufacturer Ly Ly Food Industry Co. Ltd., started exporting its products to China, as part of a push to expand beyond Asean markets.



Four shipping containers of the crackers, made using Cambodian-grown Romduol rice, have so far been sent to China, the company’s CEO, Keo Mom, told Khmer Times.



“We expect to ship 10 containers a month of our products to China,” Ms. Mom said, noting that the current four shipments to the southern Chinese port of Guangzhou were worth $50,000.



Last week, at the sidelines of the Asean Summit in Laos, the Chinese government agreed to import 200,000 tons of rice from Cambodia next year – double the current amount.



“The Chinese government agreed to Samdech’s [Mr. Hun Sen’s] request to increase imports of agriculture products from Cambodia, especially by increasing the rice quota to China from 100,000 to 200,000 tons,” said Kao Kim Huon, the minister attached to the prime minister, at a press conference on Friday.



But fulfilling the rice quotas for export to China could prove to be a problem.



Cambodia had its worst drought in half a century early this year, causing a sharp downfall in paddy rice production that affected the operations of rice millers and producers. Despite recent rains, many parts of Cambodia still do not have enough water for this year’s wet season crop and this seems worrisome.



“Many rice millers and producers are still trying to recover their losses from the previous season. Now they just don’t have enough funds for this season,” said Song Saran, an executive officer of Amru Rice Processing Factory.



“In the upcoming rice harvesting season many of these millers and producers might go broke, unless the government steps in,” he told Khmer Times.