http://www.dailymail.co.uk/debate/article-3740688/ANDREW-PIERCE-British-exports-China-Pigs-fly-trumpeted-deal-sell-trotters-hasn-t-sorted-eight-years-Gordon-Brown-signed-it.html
61
6
First, Chinese ambassador Liu Xiaoming wagged his finger at Theresa May over her refusal to sign off the £18 billion Hinkley Point nuclear power station.

'I hope the UK will keep its door open to China,' he wrote in the Financial Times.

Then Lord Mandelson, the former Trade Secretary and long-standing cheerleader for China, intervened in what looks like a carefully co-ordinated campaign by Beijing, which is a huge investor in Hinkley.

'We can't be too fussy who we do trade with,' said Mandelson, who's never been fussy who he works with as long as he's paid.

Eight years later, British pigs' trotters are still not for sale in China despite a deal in 2008

But what about the quid pro quo? Is China open for business from the UK? Little noticed last month was an exchange of letters between food minister George Eustice and Tory MP Nigel Adams, who wants to know what's happened to a much-trumpeted deal to sell pigs' trotters to China.

Eustice wrote: 'The UK Agriculture, Food And Drink Counsellor in Beijing meets with the Chinese Certification And Accreditation Administration (CNCA) on a regular basis to raise the importance of reaching agreement on the export of pigs' trotters to China.

'The most recent meeting took place in July, where agreement was reached on some additional information required by CNCA on which Defra is working as a priority.'

Some priority! The contract, worth a paltry £20 million compared to £18 billion for Hinkley, was signed in 2008 by Gordon Brown on a trade mission to China.

Eight years later, British pigs' trotters are still not for sale in China.

A cheeky request

Heartening news of Theresa May's sangfroid. Campaigning with Norwich North MP Chloe Smith in 2013, they knocked on a door in a quiet suburban street. The door was thrown open by an irritated man who was stark naked. 'Undeterred,' reports the Eastern Daily Press 'the politicians asked if they could leave a Conservative poster, to which he laughed and said: 'No, you can't.'

Theresa May and Tory MPs have enjoyed some interesting experiences door-knocking

Corbyn, Master of Disaster

As expected, Comrade Corbyn comfortably won the leadership vote of his Islington North constituency party by a 266 to 100 margin.

But one of those who voted against Corbyn and for the challenger Owen Smith was Neale Coleman, Corbyn’s head of policy until January when he quit over a series of disagreements with other senior members of the backroom team. Refusing to support his former boss, Coleman warned bleakly that if Corbyn led Labour into the next General Election it would be ‘defeated to the same level as 1931’.

Students of history will know that 1931 was an electoral disaster for the party — Labour won only 52 seats.

Picture the scene...

A group of enthusiasts turns up at Merthyr Tydfil to see their all-conquering hero. They crowd into the hall and whoop and cheer the warm-up act.

When it is announced that ‘Jeremy Corbyn is just minutes away from taking to the stage’, the cheering stops and the group walks out en masse. They thought they were going to see downmarket daytime TV presenter Jeremy Kyle.

Smith goes fishing and catches some Tories

Owen Smith on the fishing trail in Berkshire with Tory MP Charles Walker (left) and Richard Benyon (right) has attracted comment from supporters of Jeremy Corbyn

This will do wonders for Owen Smith as he tries to overthrow Comrade Corbyn.

The photo of a fishing trip to the River Pang in Berkshire shows Smith sandwiched between Tory MP Charles Walker (left) and Richard Benyon (right), the richest MP at Westminster. ‘Not much socialism there,’ tweeted one Corbynista.

The fact it was an all-party Parliamentary trip won’t stop class war trolls from having a cheap dig.

US Embassy congestion bill takes a toll

No wonder the U.S. embassy owes so much in unpaid congestion charges in London (the latest figure last month was £10.6 million). There are 631 cars registered with the embassy, almost triple the second-highest number, the Chinese embassy.