https://www.theguardian.com/australia-news/2016/aug/30/room-prisoner-jayden-bennell-died-in-left-unlocked-until-last-week-inquest-told
60
6
The prison cleaning storage room where Indigenous man Jayden Bennell was found dead in 2013 remained unlocked every day until last week, when the Western Australian department of corrective services changed the policy, an inquest has heard.



Bennell was found hanged in the storage room, which was diagonally opposite his cell in unit five of Perth’s Casuarina maximum security prison, about 3.45pm on 6 March, 2013.

On Tuesday, prison guard Sibongile Ncube told a coronial inquest at Perth magistrate’s court that the room used to be left unlocked between 7.30am and 6.30pm so prisoners could get supplies to clean their cells.

Cellmate of Jayden Bennell, who died in custody, says 'suicide note' wasn't genuine Read more

That policy had since changed so that the cupboard was locked at 10.30am, she said.

Asked by Toby Bishop, the council assisting coroner Sarah Linton, when that policy had changed, Ncube said: “Last week.”

Whether it was safe to leave the cupboard unlocked is one of the key questions being considered at the inquest.

Ncube told Steven Castan, counsel for Bennell’s mother, Maxine, that she had received training as a prison guard on suicide prevention and “identifying hazards”.

Asked what she meant about hazards, she identified features in the storage room.

“How many hanging points would there be in that room?” Castan asked.

“There are many,” she said.

“We counted about 17,” Castan said.

Ncube replied: “I haven’t counted them but there are many.”

Asked how she would respond to those hazards, according to her training, she said, “I guess prisoners need not to have access to it,” adding later that she thought it was “unsafe”.

Ncube was the prison guard who discovered Bennell at 3.45pm, after he was marked absent from the 3pm and 3.15pm musters.

The last formal record of Bennell alive in the prison logs was at the 12pm muster, but there is also a record that he attempted to place a phone call to his brother at 1.26pm.

Ncube said she and other prison guards searched for Bennell outside after he was marked absent from the 3pm muster and that after the 3.15pm muster she went into his cell and looked under his bed.

Getting up from the bed, she said, she looked into the open door of the storage cupboard and saw some white shoes.

“That’s when I saw a figure there, behind a pillar,” she said.

Ncube said she recognised Bennell as she moved closer and called out to him, saying “why is he hiding from us, but I didn’t get any answer”.

She said she and a male prison guard ran into the room and she climbed on the sink to untie a knotted bed sheet.

She then became faint when other prison guards were performing CPR and fell to the ground, knocking herself unconscious.

She rejected a suggestion by Craig Scortaoili, Bennell’s cellmate, who told the inquest on Monday that the door to the storage cupboard had been closed and that Ncube had opened it and then moved to walk away, only running to assist Bennell when he, Scortaoili, yelled.

Earlier on Tuesday Dr Clive Cooke, a senior forensic pathologist who conducted the post-mortem examination, said he believed Bennell had died quickly and there would have been a window of less than one to three minutes to save him.

Cooke said he conducted every examination as if the person was the victim of a homicide and there was no evidence of defensive wounds or the involvement of any other person in Bennell’s death.

He told Castan that he saw “quite a number” of hanging deaths in custody but that “homicidal hanging is very, very unusual”.

The inquest continues.

• Crisis support services can be reached 24 hours a day: Lifeline 13 11 14; Suicide Call Back Service 1300 659 467; Kids Helpline 1800 55 1800; MensLine Australia 1300 78 99 78