http://www.news.com.au/technology/online/security/your-money-gone-brisbane-city-council-scammed-of-450000-of-ratepayer-cash/news-story/3f1c2e2bf98ab3241d57cd9f486d1e6b
62
6
Video

Image Graham Quirk re-elected as Lord Mayor 1:58 Brisbane's newly re-elected Lord Mayor has promised to govern as though he has a one seat majority. That's despite a bigger than expected win in the council election. Courtesy: Channel Seven.

Kim Stephens news.com.au

THE heads of Queensland’s law enforcement agencies joined forces less than a month ago to publicly warn of the cold-call “master manipulators” fleecing investors of hundreds of millions of dollars.

Little did Queensland Police Service Chief commissioner Ian Stewart and Crime and Corruption Commision (CCC) boss Alan MacSporran know but just less than a week earlier, fraudsters had already put in place an elaborate scam that would claim the most high profile scalp yet.

Brisbane City Council, Australia’s largest local government body that oversees a bigger budget than Tasmania’s, has lost $450,000 of ratepayers’ money — and there is scant hope they will ever get it back.

Lord Mayor Graham Quirk revealed on Tuesday that nine, $50,000 payments were made to fraudsters for “service delivery” since July 16.

The scammers contacted council posing as a company it paid for a service and told them their bank account details had changed.

“I’m pretty angry about, it’s a case of just over $450,000 of ratepayers’ money,” Mr Quirk told ABC Brisbane breakfast host Spencer Howson on Tuesday.

“I’m hoping, obviously, we get the money back for ratepayers but just knowing how these scammers work, I’m not holding out a lot of hope.”

The lord mayor has enlisted economics experts Deloitte to investigate the fraud and pledged to make the report public. It is expected in about a month, he said.

Simultaneous investigations will be conducted by the Queensland Police Service, the Crime and Corruption Commission and the Queensland Audit Office, the lord mayor said.

South east Queensland has seen an explosion of cold-call investment scams, also known as boiler room frauds, in the past couple of years.

While so-called “mum and dad investors” who have retired to close to retirement are predominantly targeted, last month, Mr Stewart said scammers were masters at changing their tactics to avoid law enforcement agencies and target new victims.

“These entities are not like entities we tend to deal with at any given time,” he said. “What we are dealing with is a chameleon that changes its spots almost on a daily basis.

“These are very, very difficult targets to hit.”

CCC chairman Alan MacSporran said money lost to scammers is almost never recovered, with much of it gone within moments of it being transferred.

“Make no mistake, cold call investment fraud, or boiler room fraud as it is commonly known, is a form of organised crime,” he said.

“These syndicates are not run by dodgy salesmen, they are controlled by master manipulators, who regularly prey upon people from all over Australia.”

Mr Stewart said in the Brisbane and Gold Coast areas alone, 11 known syndicates investigated over the past 10 years had managed to rob victims of $175 million, the vast majority since 2010.

He said often, scammers wound up bogus companies after successfully extorting money from victims, before establishing a new one to begin all over again.

The scams, which are based all over the country and overseas, cost Australians an average of $50 million each year.

However, that figure is thought to be an underestimation, with many people reluctant to admit they have fallen victim to fraudsters.

Scammers often trick people with professional looking websites or email signatures, which is believed to be how it fooled Brisbane City Council.

The scam was uncovered when a service provider contacted council to ask why it had not been paid.