http://www.leadership.ng/news/552761/independence-day-nigeria-working-to-address-challenges-us
60
6
The United States yesterday congratulated Nigeria on the occasion of its 56th independence day anniversary, saying the country is working hard to address its economic challenges.

A statement issued by the special adviser on media to President Muhammadu Buhari, Mr. Femi Adesina, noted that on behalf of President Barack Obama and the American people, the US Secretary of State, John Kerry, expressed confidence that Nigerians were really working hard to address current national challenges.

Adesina quoted Kerry as saying: “On behalf of President Obama and the American people, I congratulate the citizens of Nigeria as you celebrate your Independence Day on October 1. I recently returned from my third trip to Nigeria as Secretary, and I came away with a strong sense of the nation’s resolve to build a better future.

“During my trip, I was reminded that many Nigerians are engaged in bringing people together across the divides of culture, religious practices, and ethnicity”.

Kerry noted that there was still much work to be done to provide economic opportunities for all, end corruption, win the fight against Boko Haram, ensure broad respect for human rights and provide humanitarian relief for millions of displaced people.

“But we know that Nigerians are hard at work to address these challenges.

The United States looks forward to deepening our partnership and friendship with Nigerians from all walks of life, so that we may work together for the betterment of Nigeria and all of Africa. Best wishes to all of you on this the 56th anniversary of your independence”, he added.

APC Assures Nigerians Of Economic Recovery

Meanwhile, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has called on Nigerians to be hopeful about the future inspite of the current economic challenges, as the federal government has taken adequate steps to bring the economy out of recession and restore the country on the path of economic growth.

This was contained in a message by the National Chairman of the party, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun issued on behalf of the APC National Working Committee (NWC) to mark Nigeria’s 56th Independence Anniversary.

APC urged Nigerians to sustain its support and prayers for the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration, as it works to return the country to its deserved heights among the comity of nations.

“Truly times are hard, but as a Party we are confident that with ongoing economic recovery efforts of the President Muhammadu Buhari administration and the continued support of Nigerians, the country will emerge from the current economic recession stronger and better.” Odigie-Oyegun said.

Odigie-Oyegun also thanked the people of Edo state for electing the APC candidate, Mr. Godwin Obaseki as the Edo State governor-elect following the September 28, 2016 Edo governorship election.

According to the APC National Chairman, the vote is a national mid-term assessment which expresses the confidence of Nigerians in the ability of the President Muhammadu Buhari APC-led administration to solve the socio-economic challenges in the country.

Saraki Canvasses Joint Efforts, Prayers to End Recession

As Nigeria celebrates her 56th Independence Anniversary today, the Senate President, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki, has called on all Nigerians to collaborate with the Federal Government in order to ensure that the nation emerge from the current economic recession stronger, more united, developed and self reliant.

Saraki, in a message to mark the nation’s 56th Independence Anniversary signed by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Yusuph Olaniyonu, also commended Nigerians, especially the nation’s founding fathers, for their contributions that have averted disaster for the country at every point her existence is threatened by social, political and economic challenged.

While expressing regrets that after 56 years of existence, Nigeria’s economy still depends on only oil, a situation which created the present economic problems being experienced by the citizenry, the Senate President commended Nigerians for their perseverance, understanding and support in the face of the harsh economic condition.

“As we celebrate independence, we should all vow to work together as we have done in the past to save the nation. As we expect leaders to initiate policies, programmes and projects that will propel the economy to grow rapidly and improve the standard of living of the people, our people should also seek to explore their creative talents to produce goods and services which can compete with the best in the world, thereby enhancing our ability to export massively and earn foreign exchange.

“That is why I continue to say that the responsibility to once again search for credible and lasting solutions to the economic crisis lies with all Nigerians, both at home and in the diaspora. While those of us in leadership must put on our thinking caps to find solution, all hands must be on deck to ensure that the efforts of the economic handlers yield necessary results soon.

“No single individual can solve our present economic predicament. I believe that with our collective efforts and sheer political will, we can push back the high tide of recession now confronting us as nation. Many countries came out of recession stronger because they allow it to challenge their creativity.

“Let us all support the government with new ideas on how to do things differently that will in no time bring the expected abundance we need as a people. We have the manpower, resources, know-how and determination to change our situation for the better,” Saraki said.

Dogara Hails Nigerians, Says Challenges Are Surmountable

Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Yakubu Dogara yesterday fecilitated with Nigerians on the occasion of the country’s 56th independence anniversary.

Dogara in a statement signed by his Special Adviser on Media & Public Affairs, Turaki Hassan, said that despite the challenges and difficulties confronting Nigerians, there is every reason for the country to celebrate its independence anniversary.

He noted that the current challenges were not insurmountable because with unity of purpose, commitment, sacrifice, hard work and patriotism, the country shall overcome.

According to the Speaker, while it may seem like all is bleak and gloomy at the moment, Nigerians will soon begin to smile in appreciation when fruits of the structures being put in place by the present administration under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari begin to manifest.

He however called on all leaders, irrespective of political affiliation, to join in rebuilding the country for betterment of future generations.

Dogara said that history has shown that many a nation have passed through even more tumultuous and difficult periods in their journey to greatness and nationhood but they overcame.

Nigerian Institutions Not Functional Enough To deliver On Goals At 56 -Tinubu

The National leader of All Progressives Congress Asiwaju Bola Tinubu has called for the reengineering of the nation’s institutions, saying they are not functional enough to deliver on the goals for which they were set up.

Tinubu in his 56 independence anniversary statement released by his media office yesterday said Nigeria’s current situation has been described as a necessary rite of passage for any nation desirous of greatness.

He said, “After 56 years of political independence, Nigeria is not where it should be even though it has witnessed appreciable progress. Nigeria’s political, social and economic foundations need to be reworked and strengthened.

“Our institutions are not functional enough to deliver on the goals for which they were set up. This independence anniversary therefore offers us another opportunity at reflections.

“But beyond that, it demands from us all the sacrifice needed for nation-building and re-commitment to the vision of our nationalists who saw the greatness in this country and worked to advance it. The times are tough no doubt. The reasons are not far-fetched.

Nigeria Destined For Greatness – Mark

Immediate past President of the Senate, Senator David Mark took stock of Nigeria’s chequered economic and Socio-political history since independence and submitted that in spite of the bottlenecks, the nation is destined for greatness.

To achieve greatness, however, Mark canvassed for policy consistency, saying that development in the country has been largely encumbered by inconsistencies in policy formulation and implementation.

In his good will message to the nation on her 56th Independence Anniversary, yesterday in Abuja through his media assistant, Mr Paul Mumeh, Mark urged for love and unity of purpose among Nigerians irrespective of religious, political and ethnic affiliations, adding that such is the only way the nation can realize its full potentials with all the abundant human and natural resources.

He recalled the ill-fated 30 months old Nigeria/Biafra fratricidal civil strife , the intermittent ethno-religious conflicts, the Boko Haram insurgency as well as the emergence of militant groups and canvassed for greater commitment and unity against all forms of violence and criminality in the land.

According to Senator Mark, “if Nigeria has gone through all these travails and remain one indivisible country, there is indeed no challenge we cannot overcome if we jettison our differences and come together as one people with a common destiny and mission.”

Mark also appealed to those behind the current wave of insurgencies and militancy to have a rethink “because there is no other country they can call theirs if they destroy Nigeria. Whatever grievances or misgivings, resorting to violence is not an option because we have various organs or channels established to seek redress .

Lamenting the negative consequences of the security challenges in the country, Mark said, “We have more reasons and gains to live together in peace than otherwise. No nation achieves greatness by incessant violence and infighting.

“We are not only wasting the lives of our compatriots but also destroying our commonwealth as a nation, because we are deploying our scarce national resources in fighting insurgents and militants instead of on developmental projects”.

Okowa Congratulates Deltans, Nigerians, Urges Peaceful Coexistence

Meanwhile, Delta State Governor, Senator Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa has congratulated Deltans and all Nigerians, as they celebrate Nigeria’s 56th Independence anniversary.

Okowa, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Charles Aniagwu on Friday extended best wishes of fifty-six years of self-rule and control, praying that the desires of our forgone heroes and the promises of independence be fulfilled in the lives of Nigerians especially at this time of economic recession.

Gov Ahmed Task Nigerians On Development

The Kwara State governor, Alh Abdulfatah Ahmed has congratulated Nigerians on the 56th Independence anniversary with a call on Nigerians to demonstrate more patriotism, commitment and dedication to collective goals so that the current challenges become things of the past.

Ahmed in his Independence Day message said, the economic situation of the country may make livelihood difficult at the present if Nigerians join hands together, the country will surely and steadily bounce back to prosperity.

He advised Nigerians to have confidence in the present administration as all things are being done to ensure that the days of economic recession are over in the shortest possible time.

Buhari Has Courage To Steer Nigeria To Greatness

– Tambuwal

Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, has said despite present economic challenges, Nigeria would attain greatness with the present crop of leadership at the helm of affairs.

“The present leadership has the country at heart. Importantly, it has the will, courage and determination to fix the myriad of problems confronting the nation at the moment,” the governor said, while speaking in Sokoto yesteray shortly after a special prayer session organised to commemorate Nigeria’s 56th independence anniversary.

He added that Nigeria was destined for greatness, as such all citizens must renew their faith in the country and be prepared to play their part in its development.

Tambuwal described Nigeria as Africa’s most important country which will continue to provide leadership direction for the continent.