http://www.politico.com/tipsheets/morning-energy/2016/09/trumps-grand-disappearing-energy-policy-hope-fades-for-quick-disaster-relief-new-ad-hits-clinton-on-coal-216364
60
6
Trump's grand disappearing energy policy

With help from Eric Wolff, Nick Juliano and Elana Schor

TRUMP’S BORROWED ENERGY POLICY GOES POOF: The oil and biofuels industries were thrown for a loop on Thursday when Donald Trump posted a plan backing his billionaire buddy Carl Icahn's call for shifitng the burden of compliance under the Renewable Fuels Standard -- then yanked the proposal from his website. As Pro’s Elana Schor and Eric Wolff report, Trump even used the same word to describe the “Big Oil” hold on biofuels blending credits (“oligopoly”) that Icahn, who owns CVR Refining, used in a letter to EPA on the issue last month. Icahn told POLITICO he’d already called Trump to congratulate his friend for embracing a change to the “point of obligation” for ethanol blending, denying that he had any effect on the shift.

Story Continued Below

Gone but not forgotten: The Trump campaign didn’t comment on why they yanked the proposal and replaced it with an updated version of their economic plan, but feathers were already ruffled in the oil industry. “Moving the point of obligation does nothing to address the real issue,” American Petroleum Institute director Frank Macchiarola said. “Further, moving the point of obligation is a divisive distraction that hinders the efforts at real RFS reform.”

Refiners pleased: American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers President Chet Thompson said he was “pleased that Mr. Trump recognizes the need for EPA to move the point of obligation,” but reiterated that his refiners also want lawmakers to eliminate or majorly overhaul the RFS. On that front, Trump’s status appears to remain pro-mandate, even as his Icahn-inspired energy policy left ethanol producers split on where he really stands.

Biofuels cheesed: Biofuels groups were put out by Trump's now-you-see-me, now-you-don't proposal to remove a system of credits from the overall renewable fuels program, with two groups calling it "inconsistent" with Trump's previous support for the RFS as a whole. "They have a choice to make," said Brooke Coleman, executive director of the Advanced Biofuels Business Council, "Are they pro-[biofuels mandate] or aren't they?"

Thanks for the phrasing, Heritage! Elsewhere in Trump’s yanked economic plan were lengthy descriptions of Obama-era environmental regulations the nominee would kill that were lifted almost verbatim from the conservative Heritage Foundation.

TGIF MY FRIENDS! I'm your host Anthony Adragna, and I’m excited for the weekend! I’ve been told Snallygaster, which describes itself as DC'S biggest, baddest beer bash, is worth the $35 price of admission. Has anyone ever been? Oh, and if you’ve got energy tips, quips and gossip, feel free to send that my way at aadragna@politico.com, or follow us on Twitter @AnthonyAdragna, @Morning_Energy, and @POLITICOPro.

HOPE FOR IMMEDIATE FLINT, DISASTER RELIEF FADES: Efforts to get financial aid for recent disasters such as Flint, Mich. and Baton Rouge, La. in a stopgap spending bill are increasingly likely to have to wait until after the election, Pro’s Nick Juliano reports. No final decisions have been made for the short-term CR — and lawmakers from Louisiana, Michigan and West Virginia are still pushing — but GOP leaders are warning those requests are likely going to have to be dealt with later. “I think what makes most sense is to deal with the CR and then come back and deal with [disaster aid] later on, when the needs are clearer and quantified,” Senate Republican Whip John Cornyn said.

Feeling upbeat on Flint: Though relief may not come immediately, Environment and Public Works Chairman Jim Inhofe drew a line in the sand Thursday when he vowed not to accept a final version of the Water Resources Development Act without assistance to the Michigan city. House lawmakers might act on their own version of the water infrastructure package next week and many of their Senate colleagues are urging Flint assistance to be included. “Obviously, Flint is in the WRDA bill, and if there’s some way … for the House to signal that the WRDA bill is going to be considered favorably, that’s a very positive thing,” Sen. Bill Cassidy, who is pushing aggressively for Louisiana disaster relief, said. House Transportation and Infrastructure Chairman Bill Shuster and Inhofe expressed confidence they would ultimately work out the differences between the House and Senate bills: “We share the same goal of sending a WRDA bill to the president before the end of this Congress,” Shuster said.

Thought game: A major deal feels likely in the lame-duck session that would provide aid to Flint as well as Louisiana (and West Virginia, Texas and any other state hit by natural disasters) and include extra war spending in Afghanistan. (h/t POLITICO's Appropriation guru Ben Weyl)

PROBE OF SOLAR CREDIT USE EXPANDS: Sen. Orrin Hatch and Rep. Kevin Brady, the heads of their chambers' finance panels, are expanding a probe into whether the administration lacked the proper controls in providing green energy incentives to solar utility and residential firms. According to a list obtained by ME, the lawmakers sent letters Wednesday seeking information on federal tax incentive usage to the residential solar companies of SolarCity Corp., Sunrun Inc. and Sungevity Inc., as well as the solar utility companies of SunEdison Inc., Abengoa SA, NextEra Energy Inc. and NRG Energy Inc. The investigation, which began in March, has found the Treasury Department and IRS lack adequate controls over the tax incentives they dole out to “green energy” companies.

SESSIONS GIVES TRUMP’S ENERGY TEAM TOP MARKS: Donald Trump’s earliest and most vocal supporter in the Senate, Jeff Sessions, had nothing but positive things to say about his former aide recently tapped to advise the GOP nominee on energy policy. “Jeff Wood is one of the most talented staffers I’ve had. He’s really, really, really fine. So, he’ll be valuable,” the Alabama Republican tells ME. Sessions said he continues to hear positive feedback about Trump’s May energy speech in North Dakota, which he said outlined policies that “he can ride through the election and into his governing period.”

BOXER’S NOT DONE YET: Fresh off another major infrastructure victory with Senate passage of WRDA, retiring Sen. Barbara Boxer tells ME she’s got “an arm’s-length list” of remaining things she’d like to get done that includes “a lot of executive actions I’ve asked the president to do in terms of the environment in my state.” Atop her to-do list (other than getting WRDA to the president’s desk) is possibly expanding the California Coastal National Monument, either through legislation or executive action by Obama. Boxer, along with Reps. Lois Capps, Anna Eshoo and Jared Huffman, will hold a public meeting today with Bureau of Land Management Director Neil Kornze to receive input on the potential expansion.

NEW AD HITS CLINTON ON COAL: Great America PAC, which supports the candidacy of Donald Trump, has released a new ad hitting Hillary Clinton for her March comment promising to “put a lot of coal miners and coal companies out of business.” In the ad, a miner from Beallsville, Ohio, says: “She said it and she meant it. To her, it’s just coal. To us, it’s our way of life...If it means crushing us to get what she wants, Hillary Clinton will do it.” Clinton later said her comment was in the context of shifting to renewable energy sources and has offered a $30 billion plan to aid coal communities. (h/t Breitbart)

SAGE GROUSE PUSHES NDAA INTO LAME DUCK (LAME DUCK DOES NOT RETALIATE): Republicans in the Senate and the House could not come to an agreement over greater sage grouse provisions in the National Defense Authorization Act, and now the bill will have to wait until December's lame duck session for passage, Defense Pro's Jeremy Herb and Connor O'Brien report. The sage grouse has been a regular feature of the NDAA in recent years, with House Republicans arguing, as they did this year, that if the bird is protected under the Endangered Species Act, it will impede military operations. The House version of the bill blocked any endangered species listing of the much fought-over bird, while the Senate version did not. ME feels compelled to point out that the Interior Department has already decided not to list the greater sage grouse as threatened. Equally relevant, Obama had threatened to veto the defense bill over spending priorities.

REVIEW ACT COMING TO A HOUSE FLOOR NEAR YOU: Legislation that would block regulations costing more than $1 billion annually from taking effect until they survive legal challenges will get a vote in the House next week, Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy announced Thursday on the floor. Rep. Tom Marino’s REVIEW Act (H.R. 3438) comes as a response to concerns from industry about being forced to spend big bucks up front to comply with regulations that may ultimately be overturned by the courts.

HINKLEY GOES AHEAD: The U.K. approved the highly divisive £18 billion ($23.8 billion) Hinkley Point C nuclear power plant Thursday, but with conditions giving the government more oversight and a say in the ownership of all future nuclear projects, as POLITICO Europe's Sara Stefanini reports. The 3.2 gigawatt plant will cover around 7 percent of the country’s electricity demand. But it will do so with a generous government subsidy to keep rates at £92.50 ($122.50) per megawatt hour, which is more than twice the going rate now. French project developer EDF promises it’ll produce first power by the end of 2025.

READING GLASSES: RGGI SHOULD GO BIGGER: The states in the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative should accelerate the program to reduce carbon emissions twice as fast, Environment America says in a report out Thursday. The report touts success stories of businesses that reduced their carbon footprint thanks to grants from the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative. The nine-state shared cap-and-trade program uses some of its revenues from selling carbon allowances to help businesses green up their operations. Among the businesses highlighted in the report are Smuttynose Brewery in New Hampshire, which used the money to improve its energy efficiency, and SolarCity, which is using RGGI money toward its mammoth solar panel plant in Buffalo, N.Y. With those successes in hand, Environment America believes the RGGI states could be more aggressive and cut carbon further, faster.

LCV UPS ANTE AGAINST HECK, TOOMEY: The League of Conservation Voters is releasing videos today going after the environmental records of Pennsylvania Sen. Pat Toomey and Nevada Republican Senate nominee Joe Heck. Along with the videos, the environmental group is releasing “interested parties” memos going after the environmental records of the Republican candidates in the critical Pennsylvania and Nevada Senate races.

MOVER, SHAKER: Center for American Progress Vice President and long-time Hill staffer Greg Dotson is joining the faculty at the University of Oregon School of Law. Dotson was former Rep. Henry Waxman's lead energy policy aide from 1996 to 2014. Dotson will remain with CAP as a senior fellow.

QUICK HITS

— North Dakota governor hopes for quick pipeline resolution. Reuters.

— Global warming could make the drought last for a century, says UCLA study. San Gabriel Valley Tribune.

— Billionaire To Spend $6.5 Million So Pennsylvania Millennials Will Vote. Huffington Post.

— Energy companies may be spending again, but lean times aren’t over yet. MarketWatch.

— Tesla Wins Massive Contract to Help Power the California Grid. Bloomberg.

— Second lowest minimum for Arctic ice. BBC.

THAT'S ALL FOR ME!