http://www.timesofisrael.com/israel-names-fifth-victim-of-tel-aviv-garage-collapse/
64
6
Police on Sunday released the name of the fifth of six victims killed in a building collapse at a construction site in Tel Aviv last week.

The man was named as 45-year-old Oleg Mushailov of the northern city of Acre.

All six construction workers were killed when a four-story parking garage under construction in the northern Tel Aviv neighborhood of Ramat Hahayal collapsed on itself.

The other victims who have been named so far are Oleg Yakubov, 60, from Tel Aviv; Dennis Dyachenko, 28, a Ukrainian national employed in Israel; Ihad Ajhaj, 34, from Bayt Rima, northwest of Ramallah; and 28-year-old Mohammad Dawabsha from the West Bank town of Duma.

The final victim of the tragedy has not yet been named.

Civilian and military rescue personnel were brought in to locate the six people trapped under the rubble. Three of the bodies were found within the first 48 hours; the fourth was found Friday afternoon, and the final two were pulled from the debris on Saturday.

The Knesset’s Labor, Welfare, and Health Committee on Thursday summoned representatives from the Danya Cebus, the company in charge of the construction site, various government ministries and police to address the fatal collapse.

Varda Edwards, the head of the Economy Ministry’s Israel Institute for Occupational Safety and Hygiene, told the committee that the site — which was nearing completion — was not found to have “significant flaws” when it was inspected in June.

Echoing Edwards, the chairman of Danya Cebus insisted the building site complied with government safety standards.

“It’s not an issue of safety,” said Ronen Ginsburg, adding that an engineer had supervised the project. “It was an engineering failure.”

Ginsburg vowed his company would cooperate fully with a police investigation into the collapse. “We won’t conceal anything and we will hand over all the materials needed for the investigation.”

Details of the investigation remained under a gag order as of Sunday.