http://www.thestar.com.my/news/nation/2016/10/08/dr-m-elections-last-resort-if-malay-rulers-choose-not-to-act/
60
6
PETALING JAYA: The polling station will be the last resort should Malay Rulers choose not to take any action on the Citizens' Declaration, says Tun Dr Mahathir Mohamad.

The former prime minister was referring to his handing over of the Citizen's Declaration to the Yang di-Pertuan Agong Tuanku Abdul Halim Muadzam Shah last month.

"He has not decided on doing anything. So now we have gone to the next stage by appealing to all the Rulers.

"If that fails, I think we have to depend upon the elections and whatever else we can do," Dr Mahathir told reporters at the Malaysia Freedom Summit 2016 here on Saturday.

He said that he had already sent letters to the Rulers and that he was awaiting the Conference of Rulers convening on Oct 11 for any developments on the matter.

On the matter of the apparent lack of support by the other Opposition parties for Parti Pribumi Bersatu Malaysia president Tan Sri Muhyiddin Yassin as a candidate for prime minister, Dr Mahathir said it was premature to bring up the issue.

At a lecture in London last month, Dr Mahathir had promoted Muhyiddin as the top pick for prime minister should the Opposition win the 14th General Election.

"If the coalition of Opposition parties wins, then it is the coalition which will decide. It could be Muhyiddin, it could be somebody else.

"I was only voicing my party's point of view," said Dr Mahathir, who is also Pribumi chairman.

The former premier also warned that PAS would lose the next election if they did not work together with the Opposition coalition.

When asked about PAS' ultimatum of refusing to work with DAP, he said that it was "very sad".

"PAS elected members increased because of working with DAP, because the Chinese voters helped PAS to win as they are quite a big number.

"I hope to be able to talk to PAS to explain that if they don't have us, the coalition, they, in fact, will be helping the Government (Barisan Nasional). Because they are going to lose," he said.

Dr Mahathir added that should the situation result in a three-cornered fight during the elections, Opposition supporters would be divided and ensure a Barisan victory.