http://www.thestar.com.my/news/nation/2016/08/19/chong-no-truth-in-reports-ministry-denies-claims-chinese-schools-are-trying-to-become-mainstream/
60
6
SUBANG JAYA: Chinese vernacular schools are not trying to be mainstream, nor can they ever be, Deputy Education Minister Chong Sin Woon said.

Chong, who is also MCA Youth chief, said his ministry disagreed with news reports suggesting the possibility of Chinese vernacular schools becoming mainstream schools in 10 years.

“There are only 1,298 Chinese vernacular schools, while there are more than 5,000 national schools in the country.

“Chinese schools are located mainly in Chinese-majority areas, so there is no agenda to become mainstream,” he told reporters here yesterday after attending the opening ceremony of a briefing for se­nior assistants in Selangor’s Chinese schools.

The event, held at Kingsley Inter­national School in Putra Heights, was attended by more than 200 school administrators.

Chong said Chinese schools had evolved to become more multiracial in composition, with nearly one-fifth (18%) of their students being non-Chinese.

“This trend is more obvious in Sabah and Sarawak. In Sabah, an average of 40% non-Chinese students study in Chinese schools.

“Perhaps in 10 years time, the average might increase to more than 50% in Sabah,” he said.

On the issue of pupils in Chinese schools having to carry “too many workbooks”, Chong himself also joined the chorus of doubters in asking whether more workbooks equalled greater success.

“Is it even necessary? I have met with the National Council of Headmasters to hear their opinion on how to resolve this issue,” he said.

He added that with the new direction of education that increa­singly emphasised Higher Order Thinking Skills for the Primary School Standard Curriculum would mean that the equation was much more than just completing workbook exercises.

On news reports claiming that aptitude tests for Year Six pupils this year were only available in Bahasa Malaysia, including for vernacular schools, Chong said he would check with his officials on the matter.

Introduced in 2009, the test is administered on the last day of the UPSR over 90 minutes.

There are several dozen multiple choice (objective) questions to determine a student’s inclination on thinking skills, problem solving, and general interests – though this test has absolutely no bearing on the candidate’s UPSR result.

Some had claimed that this year’s situation arose due to the lack of time in translating the questions into other languages.

“By convention, tests in Chinese and Tamil vernacular schools will be held in their respective langua­ges, except for language papers such as English and Bahasa Melayu,” Chong added.