http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3888772/Fears-275-000-civilians-Moscow-prepares-launch-military-assault-Aleppo-save-Assad-amid-warnings-significant-humanitarian-consequences.html
60
6
Fears are growing for 275,000 civilians in Aleppo as Vladimir Putin prepares to launch a military attack on the Syrian city this week.

The Russian President is thought to be trying to take advantage of political limbo in the United States where Barack Obama has become a 'lame duck' president and the country is consumed by the race for the White House.

With the US election on November 8, a Russian flotilla of battleships, led by the aircraft carrier Admiral Kuznetsov, is making its way through the Mediterranean on its way to attack the war-torn city, and it is believed submarines are going to join them.

Tensions between Russia and the West have escalated due to Moscow's indiscriminate bombings in Aleppo, where the war rages between rebels and the Putin-backed Bashar al-Assad.

Scroll down for video

Russian submarines have been detected in the Irish Sea as tensions rise between Moscow and Britain over the Kremlin's aggression in Syria. Pictured is a stock image of an Akula-class Russian submarine, like those tracked in the Irish Sea

Russia has built up a huge military force in the region ahead of the attack on Aleppo

Syrian opponents attack an Assad regime-controlled military academy and a neighborhood with tanks during an operation to break the siege of the regime forces in the city

Tensions between Russia and the West have escalated due to Moscow's indiscriminate bombings in Aleppo, Syria, where the war rages between rebels and the Putin-backed Bashar Havez al-Assad

A western intelligence source told The Times: 'We think that the Russians are on the brink of a major military assault on Aleppo.

'There could be significant humanitarian consequences.'

Aleppo, Syria's second biggest city, has become the main stage of conflict between President Bashar al-Assad, backed by Russia, Iran and the Lebanese Hezbollah militia; and Sunni rebels including some supported by Turkey, Gulf monarchies and the United States.

While Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump are engaged in a fierce war of words with only a week to go until election day, Putin knows President Obama is unlikely to risk his legacy by seeking a confrontation with Syria.

The new president will not be inaugurated until January, which means Putin and Assad could have two months to batter the rebels in Aleppo into submission.

Russian submarines were detected in the Irish Sea as tensions rise between Moscow and Britain over the Kremlin's aggression in Syria and Eastern Europe.

News of the ships in British waters will will further fuel already tense relations with Russia after Britain decided to send tanks, aircraft and up to 800 troops to Estonia to deter aggression from Moscow.

The decision comes amid increasing concern over Putin, after claiming territories in Crimea and the Ukraine, and numerous shows of force in recent months.

The nuclear-powered Akula-class submarines, armed with Kalibr cruise missiles capable of hitting land targets, were picked up on radar by a Royal Navy vessel.

Another submarine, a Kilo-class vessel from the same fleet, is believed to have travelled through the English Channel after it was spotted by Norwegian ships when it surfaced further north.

The three ships were being closely watched by a Royal Navy submarine - which has Russian speaking technicians - and tracked them closely for six hours.

Last week President Putin sent a fleet of eight Russian warships through the English Channel to assist the assault on the besieged Syrian city.

But this week, following pressure from its Nato allies, Spain withdrew permission for the ships to refuel in Ceuta because Moscow was unable to pledge the vessels would not be used to bomb Syria.

The recent sightings come just days after the Russian navy unveiled their new super-stealth submarine, the Veliky Novgorod, which will be deployed in the Black Sea

Abu Mohammed al-Golani, the leader of Fatah al-Sham Front (centre) is seen discussing battlefield details with field commanders over a map

Meanwhile, Syrian rebels opened a new front in Aleppo as fighting spread on the third day of a major insurgent counter-attack to break the government's siege of the opposition-held part of the city, and each side accused the other of using poison gas.

The rebels, including both Free Syrian Army factions and jihadists, are seeking to end the siege by seizing government-held areas of Aleppo, in an effort to link the city's rebel-held east with rebel-held rural areas to the west of the city.

Syrian state media said militants had fired shells containing chlorine gas at a residential area of the government-held western part of the city, al-Hamdaniya.

Rebels denied that, and said government forces had fired poison gas on another frontline.

The Royal Navy submarine is due to be joined by another from Nato, which earlier this week advised Spain to refuse Russia's request to land its flotilla at Spanish port Ceuta (pictured)

A Syrian opponent fires his rifle as they attack the headquarters of Assad regime forces

State media cited an Aleppo hospital director saying three dozen people - civilians and soldiers - had suffered suffocation in the alleged rebel gas attack, but did not report any deaths.

The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, a UK-based organisation that reports on the war, said it had confirmed reports of suffocation among government fighters in two frontline areas shelled by rebels, but it did not know if chlorine gas was the cause.

The rebels said the army had shelled rebel-held Rashideen district with chlorine and shared videos purportedly showing victims with respiratory problems.

The rebels said the army had shelled rebel-held Rashideen district with chlorine and shared videos purportedly showing victims with respiratory problems

The Observatory said at least 38 people including 14 children had been killed in rebel shelling of government-held areas of Aleppo in the last 48 hours

The city has been divided for years between the government-held western sector and the rebel-held east, which the army and its allies put under siege this summer and where they launched a new offensive in September that medics say has killed hundreds.

The Observatory said at least 38 people including 14 children had been killed in rebel shelling of government-held areas of Aleppo in the last 48 hours.

Jaish al Fateh, a rebel alliance including powerful Islamist and jihadist factions, said in a statement they were now moving into a second stage of the offensive after taking several areas with the goal of 'ending the siege'.

They called on residents of government-held areas in western Aleppo to stay at home or in underground shelters as they spread their offensive, saying they were coming to 'liberate' their land. They urged the fighters not to harm anyone who did not carry arms.

Rebels and pro-government sites said most of Sunday's fighting concentrated on the 3000 Apartments housing project in the al-Hamdaniya area. Capturing it would bring the rebels to within several kilometres of the heart of the government-controlled area.

'There are heavy street battles and the regime is now retreating from the area. Its only a matter of time and we will announce its liberation,' Abu al Ansari, a fighter from Failaq al Sham, said in a WhatsApp message.

The city has been divided for years between the government-held western sector and the rebel-held east

Rebels said the attack had started with preparatory shelling earlier in the day. Russian planes resumed heavy bombing of the rebels' new locations in west Aleppo - the latter also cited on pro-government sites.

There were conflicting accounts of the outcome of the fighting, however, with rebels saying they had taken some buildings in the residential area as they seek to penetrate heavily populated areas under state control.

Rebels said suicide bombers were deployed on the outskirts of the neighbourhood, a tactic used on Friday when insurgents seized Dahiyet al-Assad, a cluster of villas once occupied by top army officers covering about a square kilometre on the southwest corner of the city.

The army said it had launched an offensive with allied forces on several fronts in the west and east of Aleppo and recaptured the village of Minian on the western edge of the city, taken at the start of the campaign, and had ambushed rebels who had infiltrated some buildings in Dahiyat al Assad.

Rebels denied that Minian had fallen.

Since launching the large scale assault on Friday, the rebels have deployed numerous suicide car bombs undertaken by radical Islamic groups, including the Turkistan Islamic Party in Syria, a jihadist group operating in Syria

Since launching the large scale assault on Friday, the rebels have deployed numerous suicide car bombs undertaken by radical Islamic groups, including the Turkistan Islamic Party in Syria, a jihadist group operating in Syria.

The rebels' use of scores of car bombs to breach army defence lines has helped them advance. The barrage of hundreds of mortars and missiles fired on the city's western edge from bases in the countryside outside Aleppo has been the most intense bombardment by rebels in recent months.

Fateh al-Sham, a jihadist group formerly known as the Nusra Front, played a big part in a rebel attack in July that succeeded in breaking the government siege on eastern Aleppo for several weeks before it was re-imposed.