https://www.yahoo.com/news/top-asian-news-4-19-m-gmt-041917186.html
62
6
ISLAMABAD (AP) — One of Pakistan's most vicious militant groups has dramatically stepped up its attacks over the past month, striking mosques, Christians and security forces in attacks that have killed more than 60 people in what appears to be a backlash to military operations against it. Ever since it broke away from the Pakistani Taliban in 2014, Jamaat-ul-Ahrar or the Freedom Movement had been carrying out sporadic attacks, often weeks or months apart. But since the beginning of September, it has struck 10 times, including a horrific bombing of a mosque earlier this month that killed 36 people, many of them children.

ISLAMABAD (AP) — Jamaat-ul-Ahrar, or the Freedom Movement, a breakaway Taliban faction and a U.S.-designated terrorist group, has claimed responsibility for many of the most brutal militant attacks carried out in recent weeks and months in Pakistan. Here is a look at some of the major attacks the group has claimed. — Sept 18: Gunmen killed three Pakistani soldiers in the northwestern city of Peshawar. — Sept 16: A suicide attack killed 36 worshippers in a Sunni mosque in the northwestern tribal region of Mohmand. — Sept 13: A roadside bomb killed two policemen in the southwestern city of Quetta. — Sept 13: A suicide attack in the southwestern city of Shikarpur was prevented by a police officer, who later died.

ISLAMABAD (AP) — In New Delhi, they say that highly trained Indian soldiers slipped across the de facto border and into Pakistani-controlled Kashmir in a daring nighttime raid, killing anti-India militants preparing to launch attacks. In Islamabad, they say only one Indian soldier made it across the border — and he was captured — with Pakistani forces easily driving back the other Indians, who retreated as soon as they encountered resistance. India says none of its soldiers were killed. Pakistan says eight Indian soldiers died. Who is telling the truth? No outsider knows for sure. The region where the fighting occurred is deep in the Himalayas, along the Line of Control that has long split Kashmir between India and Pakistan.

ISLAMABAD (AP) — Pakistan's Foreign Ministry says it remains committed to hosting the 19th SAARC Summit, which has been postponed after India's decision to abstain. The Summit of South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation was scheduled to take place in Islamabad on Nov. 9-10. Bangladesh also announced it would abstain. The ministry statement blamed the government of Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying it was exploiting recent tensions over cross-border violence in the disputed territory of Kashmir. The statement also questioned the sincerity of Modi's call to fight against poverty in the region. SAARC was founded in 1985 to promote economic cooperation, but tensions between India and Pakistan have repeatedly blocked progress.

MANILA, Philippines (AP) — Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte raised the rhetoric over his bloody anti-crime war to a new level Friday, comparing it to Hitler and the Holocaust and saying he would be "happy to slaughter" 3 million addicts. Duterte issued his latest threat against drug dealers and users early Friday on returning to his hometown in southern Davao city after visiting Vietnam, where he discussed his anti-drug campaign with Vietnamese leaders and ways for their governments to fight transnational crimes, including illegal drugs. Duterte has said his public death threats against drug suspects are designed to scare them to stop selling drugs and to discourage would-be users.

BANGKOK (AP) — Authorities in Thailand have confirmed that two cases of babies with microcephaly, or abnormally small heads, were caused by the Zika virus, the first such cases found in Southeast Asia. Dr. Prasert Thongcharoen, a senior Health Ministry official, said in a statement Friday that the linkage to Zika was confirmed by laboratory tests in two of three cases of babies afflicted with microcephaly. The results were inconclusive in the third case. The World Health Organization urged countries in the region to take stronger measures to contain the virus. The U.N. agency said the cases are the first of Zika-associated microcephaly in Southeast Asia.

TOKYO (AP) — The Japanese government approved a 150 billion yen ($1.5 billion) contract Friday to build a new main stadium for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, a project that has been delayed by more than a year. Officials said the stadium construction would begin in December after an earlier plan was scrapped because of spiraling costs and an unpopular design. The Japan Sport Council, a government-funded organization operating the project, said the stadium was scheduled for completion at the end of November 2019, still five months behind schedule. The delay forced a venue change for the Rugby World Cup that Japan is also hosting in 2019.