http://www.4-traders.com/news/U-S-Cattle-Futures-Decline-On-Profit-Taking-After-Weeklong-Rally--23311310/
61
6
By Kelsey Gee

CHICAGO--U.S. cattle futures declined Monday, pressured by profit-taking in some contracts after signs of stronger demand fueled a weeklong rally.

Live-cattle futures for October delivery slid 1.1 cents, or 1.1%, to expire at $1.0310 a pound on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, after a 3% climb in the past week. That contract climbed 4.2% throughout the month of October. Most-actively traded December live-cattle futures dropped 1.025 cent to $1.03325 a pound.

Feeder-cattle futures for November picked up 0.3 cent, or 0.3%, to $1.2185 a pound.

The cattle market consolidated to start the week, after a steady trickle of sales in the cash markets last week at progressively higher prices fueled gains in futures. The cash strength has revived hopes that recent discounts in beef prices to multiyear lows have attracted fresh buying interest from retailers in the U.S. and abroad.

A report on meat exports due out from the U.S. Department of Agriculture next week is expected to shed further light on demand for cheaper pork and beef this fall.

In the cash markets, meatpackers bought a larger-than-normal volume of cattle last week, adding more fuel to traders' expectations that larger beef orders are incentivizing more aggressive bidding from processors. More than 38,000 head in Kansas and Texas, and 52,000 head in Colorado and Nebraska were purchased last week, more than the double the volume the previous week in some regions.

Cattle and hog futures in mid-October fell to the lowest levels in six and 14 years, respectively, as supplies swell to the highest levels on record. Profit-taking curbed gains from the past week, as traders looked for new signs of buying interest at the slightly elevated price levels.

Hog futures, meanwhile, continued to climb as demand optimism spreads across the meat markets.

Hogs for December rose 1.15 cents, or 2.5%, to 47.95 cents a pound, after a 12% rally over the past week.

-Write to Kelsey Gee at kelsey.gee@wsj.com