http://www.thenational.scot/politics/third-heathrow-runway-plans-the-best-deal-for-scotland.23409
60
6
Third Heathrow runway plans ‘the best deal for Scotland’

If you would prefer unlimited access, please support our journalism with a website subscription. Subscribe today for just £3.99 a month.

Registered users can read up to 10 articles for free each month.

Will fin breid, barley-bree an paintit room. Whan MacLean meets wi's friens in Springburn. Aa thae roses an geeans will turn tae blume. An a black laud frae yont Nyanga. Dings the fell gallows o the burghers doun.

Black an white ane-til-ither mairriet. Mak the vile barracks o thair maisters bare. Sae come aa ye at hame wi freedom. Never heed whit the houdies croak for Doom. In yer hous aa the bairns o Aidam.

Tak the road an seek ither loanins. Wi thair ill-ploys tae sport an play. Nae mair will our bonnie callants. Merch tae war whan our braggarts crousely craw. Nor wee weans frae pitheid an clachan. Murn the ships sailin doun the Broomielaw. Broken faimilies in launs we've hairriet. Will curse 'Scotlan the Brave' nae mair, nae mair.

Roch the win i the clear day's dawin. Blaws the clouds heilster-gowdie owre the bay. But thair's mair nor a roch win blawin. Thro the Great Glen o the warl the day. It's a thocht that wad gar our rottans. Aa thae rogues that gang gallus fresh an gay.

SCOTTISH ministers have thrown their weight behind a third runway at Heathrow.

SCOTTISH ministers have thrown their weight behind a third runway at Heathrow.

Economy secretary Keith Brown met with airport bosses yesterday to sign a memorandum of understanding, saying that the new runway at Heathrow rather than Gatwick would be “the best deal for Scotland”.

Theresa May indicated in her conference speech last week that the Government would shortly “announce a decision on expanding Britain’s airport capacity”.

With the SNP’s 54 MPs backing Heathrow, the Prime Minister could ask the Commons to vote on the proposal in days. Gatwick bosses were upset, insisting that a second runway there would be “the best outcome for Scotland”.

Brown said Heathrow’s proposal could create 16,000 new jobs in Scotland, a “substantial increase” in direct flights between Heathrow and Scotland worth £10m, a reduction in landing charges, and Glasgow Prestwick Airport possibly used as a £200m logistics hub for the construction of a third runway.

Brown told BBC Radio Scotland’s Good Morning Scotland programme: “In the absence of action from the UK Government, we have made this decision and we would urge them to act as quickly as possible.”

“There’s a benefit to passengers, there’s a benefit to the tourist industry,” he added.

“It’s my job as Cabinet Secretary for the Economy and Jobs to look after those things for Scotland. This is a good deal for Scotland.”

Heathrow chief executive, John Holland-Kaye, claimed a third runway would “work for every region” of the UK. He said: “An expanded Heathrow would create up to 16,000 jobs in Scotland.

“It would facilitate more airlines flying routes to Scottish airports, meaning more flights, more competition and choice for families and businesses across the nation.

“That also means more visitors to Scotland, more destinations for Scottish tourists and more opportunity for Scottish businesses to reach new export markets.

Heathrow have thrown a lot of money into winning the support of the SNP, lobbying heavily and sponsoring a lounge and a series of events at the party’s conference this weekend.

John Finnie from the Scottish Greens, said the move tarnished the SNP’s environmental credentials: “Expansion of hugely-polluting aviation can only be a disaster for the climate, not to mention the impact on local communities.

“The Scottish Government are flawed in thinking that more of everything is somehow sustainable.“

Willie Rennie from the LibDems was critical of the minister’s decision: “Keith Brown is now seriously arguing that we should expand Heathrow so that people can fly directly to Scotland instead.

“Keith Brown is for and against action on climate change, for and against short haul flights and I suspect if we asked he would be for and against flying too.

“This policy must be a joke – it can’t be real.”

If Heathrow’s third runway is passed by the Commons it could end up causing the Prime Minister a headache, with Tory MP Zac Goldsmith promising to resign his Richmond constituency and cause a by-election.