http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/704172/Geert-Wilders-Islam-religion-Muslim-Koran-PVV-Dutch-Freedom-Party
71
7
GETTY Geert Wilders has vowed to ban the Koran if he becomes Dutch PM

Geert Wilders, leader of the Dutch Freedom Party (PVV), called for the total "de-Islamification" in a controversial manifesto posted online. The far-right MP, who has previously compared the Koran to Adolf Hitler's Mein Kampf, also vowed to put an end to immigration from Islamic countries. He would also close all Islamic schools and asylum centres, and ban Muslim women from wearing the headscarf in public, if elected prime minister next year.

Mr Wilders unveiled the manifesto ahead of the Netherlands' parliamentarian elections in March. The PVV currently leads the pack in almost every opinion poll amid growing anger at the Dutch government’s handling of the refugee crisis. It is on course to take 35 seats in the 150-seat Dutch Parliament, about 10 seats more than the ruling Liberal party, led by prime minister Mark Rutte.

GETTY Mr Wilders also wants to stop immigration from Islamic countries

Brexit aftershocks: Who's next to leave the EU? Wed, September 14, 2016 Britain has voted to leave the EU. So who's next? We look at which European countries want to hold their own EU referendum. Play slideshow Express 1 of 10 Frexit, Nexit or Auxit? Who will be next to leave the EU

Mr Wilders also promised to do all he can to hold a referendum on Netherlands' membership of the EU following June's historic Brexit vote. Sybrand van Haersma Buma, leader of the Christian Democratic Appeal (CDA) party, branded Mr Wilders' plans "utterly bizarre and unbelievable". He added: "The programme will further polarise Dutch society."

GETTY The PVV currently leads the pack in almost every opinion poll

Mr Wilders last month said he was "proud" of his tough stance on Islam after claiming the Netherlands "can't take any more" refugees from Syria and Iraq. The outspoken leader added: "I also don't have a problem with people from Slovakia and Lithuania. But I do have a problem with immigration from Islamic countries. "The EU leaves us no freedom to determine our own immigration and asylum laws. That's why leaving the EU is necessary."

GETTY The MP has said the Netherlands 'can't take any more' refugees