http://newsday.co.tt/news/0,234317.html
70
7
A d v e r t i s e m e n t

50 families washed out

By AZARD ALI Sunday, October 9 2016

ALREADY inundated by last Friday’s heavy showers which kept them indoors, over 50 families in Radix Village, Mayaro, were forced to flee their homes when water from a construction site suddenly gushed into their homes.

A community of the village, located on Cham Road, below Bergorat Hill was a site of devastation yesterday as residents found their homes flooded out, with damage to their furniture, appliances clothing and children’s schoolbooks. There was not much to recover.



Many had spent Friday night with relatives who lived on higher ground having fled their homes at about 3 pm.



Police, responding to distress calls, rescuing women and children stranded in the muddy waters.



They had to stop the contractor from the excavation he was carrying out on Bergorat Hill, where a new residential area is to built.



A police report stated a manmade pond, formed by the excavation works, overflowed and gallons of water spilled into two rivers which burst their banks gushing into residents’ homes at Cham Road.



Social activist Raymond Cozier, a former councillor, told Sunday Newsday excavation on Bergorat Hill by the land developer created a pond. Following thundershowers last Friday afternoon, the pond’s bank gave way and water gushed down the hill into the two rivers which meander through the Cham Road community in Radix Village.



Rabia Bramble, 42, a resident said the Radix Cemetery was first covered in water and then there was a sudden gush of water into homes.



More than 50 school children have been affected, their books and uniforms having been destroyed by the muddy water.



Bramble, Cora Alcindore-Francis 43, and Asha Lemessley, 39, told Sunday Newsday their furniture, stoves, fridges became waterlogged.



“We lost our foodstuffs from our cupboards and our children’s clothing and books were floating everywhere,” Bramble said. She said she and her three children spent Friday night at her sister’s home, and other affected residents found shelter with relatives and friends.



Lemessley told Sunday Newsday that all of her two-year-old and 11-year-old children’s clothing and schoolbooks were destroyed by the “muddy water”.



“We lost all our groceries because water went all in the cupboard. We know that massive pond the contractor build will one day give way.



Well, Friday night, they (contractor) come and drop KFC because we had nothing to eat,” Lemessley said.



Residents of Cham Road got assistance from the Community- Based Environmental Protection and Enhancement Programme (CEPEP) to clear debris and several inches of dirt from their bedrooms and living rooms yesterday. However, they were not the only ones affected by the combined impact of the overflowing pond and rivers.



An estimated 50 families living along neighbouring Edghill Road, Gould Street and Bon Espoire Road also stayed away from their homes because of the unbearable stench from the flooded cemetery.



Alcindore-Francis, who has two children, ages 17 and 23, quipped, “Even the dead must be crying.” United National Congress (UNC) Mayaro MP Rushton Paray and incumbent People’s National Movement councillor and Kairon James visited the area, residents told Sunday Newsday. Paray and James could not be reached despite several calls to them. The contractor also could not be located.



However, Cozier, who is seeking re-nomination as councillor for the UNC, donated $1,000 to the cooking of food for affected residents.



In a media release yesterday, CEPEP stated it had to utilise 180 employees from eight contractors and visit 40 homes to clean-up threefeet of water and mud, which had inundated residents, who may have to endure another wet night or seek shelter elsewhere.







