http://asianews.network/content/tackle-energy-constraints-boost-growth-bdesh-adb-27104
73
7
An insufficient supply of reliable energy, a lack of economic diversification and uncertain property rights are three critical constraints that might stop Bangladesh from achieving inclusive and sustainable growth in the future, according to a new study.

“If policies are designed to urgently tackle these constraints, Bangladesh will be free to harness its full potential for even more inclusive and sustainable growth,” said the Asian Development Bank yesterday.

The report -- Bangladesh: Consolidating Export-led Growth -- was launched at a programme at Radisson Hotel in Dhaka. The study uses economic diagnostic tools to identify critical constraints to growth and sets out policy recommendations to help tackle them.

The report said the lack of reliable electricity supplies and the impending shortage of natural gas are major binding constraints to economic growth. Unless the energy supply gap can be narrowed across the country, economic growth will not match its potential.

A combination of highly subsidised fuel and electricity prices for consumers, coupled with difficulties for the private sector to enter the electricity and oil and gas industries, has led to inadequate supplies. The impact on aggregate economic activity is already palpable.

The study recommended reduction of subsidies for electricity and fuel and suggested programmes that promote energy conservation and energy efficiency.

Private investment in electricity generation and oil and gas exploration should be promoted. Besides, the government has to push harder for development of the South Asian regional electricity market, according to the study.

On economic diversification, the ADB report shows that over the last 10 years, the domestic economy has become more concentrated in a few sectors. In contrast, other Asian countries, such as China and Vietnam, have leveraged their beginnings in basic manufacturing to link to other sectors, including business services that increase the productivity of manufacturing exports.

The strategy of outward-oriented growth through generous incentives to the very competitive garment sector has inadvertently stifled the development of many other potentially innovative sectors -- both in the tradable and non-tradable sectors, it said.

“New activities need to develop. There should be less reliance on only one export-oriented low-cost manufacturing sector, the typical economic growth model of countries in the first phases of development.”

Such a strategy will need a greater focus on higher, technical and vocational education to raise skills, more and better energy and transport infrastructure, and a more responsive public sector that raises tax revenues by broadening the base.

“It will require a state that embraces technology, for example, by increasing access to the internet, cell phone banking, biometric identification techniques, a state that fosters transparency through the production of more and better data.”

Ultimately, progress on economic development will be measured through solid improvements in all areas identified as barriers.

The report said Bangladesh could also expand into activities such as the maintenance and repair of machinery and light engineering.

While it is impossible to predict where the country will eventually expand, it is clear that on-the-job training to expand skills, with a steady increase in the quality of basic secondary education, will be paramount if the country wants to develop faster.

It said Bangladesh must raise the quality of education and skills for its workers if it is to compete in the global marketplace with higher value-added products.

Challenges remain, nonetheless, and continued development requires more effort, coordination, and strengthening of the institutional framework, the ADB said.

The study argues that some of the policies that allowed the country to grow and prosper in the last few years will become less effective, and the economy will need to 'switch gears' to consolidate the growth momentum over the medium term.

“The good news for Bangladesh is that it has resilience, innovation in some areas, a large and growing domestic consumer market, and demographics still favourable to raising medium-term productivity.”

On governance issue, the report said while progress has been made in some areas, such as the separation of executive, legislative and judicial powers, stronger rule of law is crucial to continued economic prosperity and social inclusion.

The ADB said, presently, the micro risks from enforcement of property rights are an important constraint to sustainable long-term growth and investment in Bangladesh.

It said the cost of land is prohibitive for small firms. Property registration procedures are also long. Costs as a percentage of the value of registered property are also higher compared with other South Asian countries.

It said domestic investors manage to acquire land for their ventures, but costs are prohibitive at times. But foreign investors are dependent on government cooperation to gain access to land, and the government has difficulty making land available to them because of the competing land uses, leading to limitations in foreign direct investment.

“The difficulty in acquiring land for investment serves to discourage interest in investing in Bangladesh.”

The report said public-private partnerships can contribute to infrastructure upgrades in some of the country's most successful economic sectors, while secured land ownership and improved urban planning and development will help attract more foreign investment.

Reliable electricity, efficient urban transport systems, and measures to support new industries and economic activities are also important.

The report said Bangladesh has been an innovator in microcredit services globally and there is significant scope to boost the sector further, particularly with the growing use of mobile technology. Incentive programmes to improve financial services for small and micro depositors can also create a pool of funds that can be channelled for infrastructure development.

The economic growth rate has been high, but quality investments are needed going forward, said the ADB.

Foreign direct investment, at around 1 per cent of GDP, is low compared with other countries at similar levels of development, it said.

The report advocates for the faster development of a national pension system, as some 64 percent of poor households still do not have access to social protection.

It said as Bangladesh is still a relatively youthful country, setting up the institutions for a lasting pension system will come at a small cost.