http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2016/10/15/doubling-in-nhs-agency-spending-with-50-hourly-rates-for-midwive/
10
1
NHS spending on agency midwives has doubled despite Government pledges to clamp down on soaring bills, new figures show.

The Royal College of Midwives said the £72 million spent on temporary workers and overtime last year could have paid for more than 3,000 permanent staff – which would have solved its workforce crisis.

The new report shows average rates for such workers have now reached more than £40 an hour – rising to £50 hourly last winter.

Around half of the money is spent on fees to agencies, the study said.

Spending on agency staff midwives went from £11.8 million in 2013 to almost £25 million last year, the report shows. A further £4.52 million was spent on overtime in 2015, while spending on bank staff – in-house NHS workers who want to work flexibly across health trusts – was £43.23 million.

West Hertfordshire Hospitals trust spent the most on agency midwives, with £2.25 million spent last year.

Chelsea and Westminster Hospital Foundation trust, University Hospitals of Morecambe Bay Foundation trust, Southend Hospital Foundation trust, St George’s Healthcare trust and Kings College Hospital Foundation trust each spent at least £1.5 million on the agency workers.

Jon Skewes, director for policy, employment relations and communications at the RCM, said: “The findings of this report are deeply concerning and clearly reveal that many trusts within England are far too reliant on agency and bank midwives.

“This is an incredibly expensive and wasteful way to staff maternity units and it simply cannot continue. For over a decade now the RCM has warned that an over reliance on temporary staff will inevitably cost more in the long run.”

The millions spent on such workers and on overtime could have paid for more than 3,300 new midwives, he said – enough to end the national shortage.

The figures show 23 NHS trusts spending more than £1m a year on agency workers, bank staff and overtime. Twelve of the highest spenders were in London.