http://www.news.com.au/national/south-australia/asha-reunited-with-family-after-five-years-on-the-road/news-story/29f2b064003ee4d97801a357e08e2f6f
71
7
Jade Gailberger The Advertiser

IF dogs could talk, Asha’s story would be a tale of survival.

Asha had been with the family barely a year when she escaped under a fence at Chris’ mother-in-law’s property in Brighton. She was last seen running across railway tracks by a passerby.

The family put up flyers in the hope she would return, but Mr Cooke said he feared the timid dog had been hit by a car.

A few years later the Cookes decided to adopt another RSPCA dog, a Maltese shih tzu named Raffy.

But last week Mr Cooke received a call from the RSPCA, after they had microchipped a dog — Asha — who had been captured through the combined effort of Lost Dogs of Adelaide volunteer Rose Pope and RSPCA SA rescue officer Soraya Megaw.

“They said she’s been living rough ... For the past 18 months she’s been living up near the Reynella interchange on the expressway near the bike path there,” Mr Cooke said.

“I’m a cyclist and go for regular rides with the boys on Wednesday mornings and was basically within 10m of where she’s been living.”

When Ms Pope was alerted to Asha’s hideaway she spent days trying to catch her, before buying a trap and putting food inside to entice her.

Ms Pope spent several hours monitoring the trap until as late as midnight, before Ms Megaw found Asha in the cage the following morning and took her to the RSPCA.

The matted Maltese was groomed and received a health check before being reunited with her family last week.

Mr Cooke said she had settled back in surprisingly well — to the delight of his children Angus, 15, and Alexandra, 13.

“I wish the dog could talk because she’s travelled a fair distance and we don’t know whether she’s been anywhere else along the way,” he said.

“She’s such a timid little thing you wouldn’t think she’d be able to look after herself.”

Mr Cooke said the family is going to donate money to the RSPCA for their efforts to get their beloved Asha home.