http://www.4-traders.com/news/Senate-Moves-Closer-on-Budget-Bill-Despite-Divisions--23099545/
72
7
By Kristina Peterson

WASHINGTON -- Republicans and Democrats in the Senate have agreed on $1.1 billion in funding to combat the Zika virus as part of a stopgap spending bill needed to keep the government running beyond next Friday, but they remain divided over whether to include assistance for Flint, Mich., as part of that deal.

Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R., Ky.) on Thursday introduced legislation that would keep the government funded through Dec. 9, but Democrats said they weren't ready to sign on to a bill that didn't address the drinking water crisis in Flint.

"It's a fair proposal that funds all current government operations through December 9," Mr. McConnell said on the Senate floor.

The new short-term spending bill marked some progress in the Senate, where lawmakers have been bitterly divided for months over how to allocate funding for Zika. The dispute has become central to some battleground Senate races, most prominently in Florida, where GOP Sen. Marco Rubio is running for re-election.

While partisan sticking points remained on the bill, most lawmakers and aides expect the fight to end before the government's current funding expires at midnight on Sept. 30. Neither political party would welcome a partial government shutdown just weeks before the November elections, where control of the White House and Senate could be decided by narrow margins.

The short-term spending bill includes $1.1 billion to research a Zika vaccine and provide for health care in U.S. states and territories, including Puerto Rico, that have been hit by the virus.

The new deal removes restrictions on earlier legislation that would have prevented ProFamilias clinics in Puerto Rico, which work with Planned Parenthood, from accessing the funding. Under the bill, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid would administer the funding by reimbursing those providing Zika-related care. In Puerto Rico, the Department of Health would decide who could be reimbursed for care.

The legislation is subject to current law, which prohibits federal funding for abortion services.

"We think we're pretty much there" on Zika funding, said Sen. Barbara Mikulski of Maryland, the top Democrat on the Senate Appropriations Committee. But Ms. Mikulski said Democrats didn't support the overall spending bill because it didn't include any assistance for Flint.

"We believe the people of Flint, Michigan, who've been waiting for more than one year, should be included in this" spending bill, Ms. Mikulski said on the Senate floor. She told reporters as she walked off that she wouldn't vote for the bill at this point.

The Senate last week passed legislation that would authorize a range of water projects across the U.S. and included assistance for Flint, whose drinking water became contaminated with lead in 2014. A state-appointed emergency manager had decided to use the Flint River as an interim source of drinking water instead of buying water from Detroit's Water and Sewerage Department, whose rates many Flint officials thought were too high.

Under the Senate water bill, Flint would be eligible for what amounts to a $100 million grant for water-infrastructure projects. The package also includes money to support at least $700 million in low-interest loans to allow municipalities to finance water-infrastructure projects.

However, the House version of the water bill, which House Speaker Paul Ryan (R., Wis.) said the chamber will consider next week, doesn't include funding to address Flint's drinking water.

"On Flint this is more of a local government issue, that's my own perspective and opinion," Mr. Ryan told reporters Thursday, saying "that conversation" should be held when the chamber debates the water bill.

Democrats said it is unfair to include flood relief for states including Louisiana, without providing relief for Flint. The new Senate spending bill unveiled Thursday includes $500 million for disaster recovery in Louisiana and other states.

The Senate bill doesn't include a number of partisan-backed changes to current law that some senators had pushed for. The legislation wouldn't halt an Oct. 1 transition of U.S. oversight of the internet to a California nonprofit, which Sen. Ted Cruz (R., Texas) had hoped to block. GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump had backed Mr. Cruz's effort on Wednesday.

The spending bill would also keep in place language, opposed by senior Democrats, that prevents the Securities and Exchange Commission from working on a rule that would require companies to disclose their political spending activities.

The Senate will likely take its next procedural vote on the spending bill on Monday evening. The House is expected to consider the spending bill once it has passed the Senate.

Write to Kristina Peterson at kristina.peterson@wsj.com