http://www.telegraph.co.uk/business/2016/08/17/norway-writes-off-5pc-from-its-british-properties-after-brexit-v/
75
7
Norway’s state wealth fund has written off 5pc of the value of its British properties following the EU referendum.

The world's biggest sovereign wealth fund noted that “greater uncertainty than usual” in the real estate market, with a number of property firms barring investor withdrawals while they sell off their holdings, made it difficult to predict market prices.

"It was pointed out to us that the uncertainty of the assessment of the value [of our British property portfolio] by external assessors has increased," deputy chief executive Trond Grande told a news conference.

Almost a quarter of the Government Pension Fund Global’s property holdings are in Britain and 16pc are in London, which has been spooked by predictions that international buyers will steer clear of the market in the uncertain years after the Brexit vote.

However, Norway's 7,717bn kroner (£669bn) fund has continued to put money into the capital’s properties, buying a shop on Oxford Street for £124m last month from Aberdeen’s UK Property Fund.

Aberdeen was among half a dozen major investment houses to gate its property fund in the first few weeks after the referendum, preventing investors from pulling out their capital while it liquidated some of its holdings.

Norway’s investment vehicle, which invests the country’s oil bounty to pay for state benefits for future generations, returned a total of 1.3pc in the three months to the end of June.

Stronger returns in the fund’s bond investments offset weakness in its property holdings and a mere 0.66pc increase in its stocks and shares.

Meanwhile, the fund has dropped 52 coal companies from its portfolio on ethical grounds, after pledging in February to stop investing in firms that derive more than 30pc of their sales from the fossil fuel.

Its other UK property holdings include half of the Meadowhall shopping centre in Sheffield, a quarter of Regent Street in central London, and a share of the Pollen Estate that owns Savile Row.