http://www.asianews.network/content/cash-strapped-budget-hits-indonesia-26940
71
7
Indonesia's cash-strapped state budget has taken its toll on fund transfers to regional administrations and will lead to lower economic growth this year, state officials say.

Bank Indonesia (BI) estimated that state revenue shortfalls could be greater than the government’s forecast and more budget cuts may need to be made, governor Agus Martowardojo said.

“This is an uncomfortable discussion but it needs to be done. Indonesia, which has solid fundamentals, can be considered weak if our fiscal condition is not sufficiently strong. Foreign funds will easily exit and create a setback to our economy,” he told a meeting with the House of Representatives on Tuesday evening.

President Joko “Jokowi” Widodo has issued a presidential instruction (Inpres) to cut state spending by 137 trillion rupiah (US$10.3 billion) due to a 219 trillion rupiah revenue shortfall as the government has admitted that it previously set the tax target too high.

BI estimated that the budget cut would slash economic growth by 0.1 per cent this year to between 4.9 to 5.3 per cent, in contrast to the government’s target of 5.2 per cent growth.

Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati agreed with the central bank’s estimate, separately telling lawmakers on Wednesday, “this is an implication, however, to manage the state budget, I myself as a finance minister must run it by the state budget law”.

Sri Mulyani, who replaced former finance minister Bambang Brodjonegoro in Jokowi’s second reshuffle in late July, convinced the President to again revise the state budget after spending grew faster than revenue, potentially leading to fund shortages for the government’s development programs.

Apart from cutting ministries’ and state institutions’ spending, another option to keep the budget in check is to delay fund transfers to regional administrations. Sri Mulyani estimated the deficit ending the year at 2.5 per cent, versus previous estimates of 2.35 per cent and nearing the legal threshold of 3 per cent of the nation’s gross domestic product (GDP)