http://www.independent.ie/regionals/wicklowpeople/news/a-significant-moment-a-very-very-hard-day-35123156.html
17
1
A year on from the horrific fire which claimed the lives of 10 young people and an unborn baby at a halting site in Carrickmines, candles representing each one were lit and placed on the altar at the Holy Redeemer Church in Bray.

A year on from the horrific fire which claimed the lives of 10 young people and an unborn baby at a halting site in Carrickmines, candles representing each one were lit and placed on the altar at the Holy Redeemer Church in Bray.

A year on from the horrific fire which claimed the lives of 10 young people and an unborn baby at a halting site in Carrickmines, candles representing each one were lit and placed on the altar at the Holy Redeemer Church in Bray.

Earlier on Monday afternoon, members of the Lynch, Gilbert and Connors families met at St Peter's Church for the blessing of a plaque in their memory.

At the Little Bray church, Fr Larry Behan prayed for Thomas Connors (27), his wife Sylvia (30), their children Jim (5), Christy (3) and Mary (six months), Willy Lynch (25), his partner Tara Gilbert (27), their unborn child 'baby Angel Lynch', their daughters Jodie (9) and Kelsey (4), and Jimmy Lynch (39), brother of Sylvia and Willy. He told family members that they are welcome to the church at any time, to say a prayer for their lost loved ones.

On the morning of Sunday, October 10, 2015, they all perished in a fire at the Carrickmines halting site on Glenamuck Road. On Monday of this week, their grieving relatives attended a series of ceremonies throughout the day to mark the first anniversaries of their deaths.

There was the blessing of a memorial plaque and Mass in Balally Parish Church, before mourners paused outside the Glenamuck Road site for a moment of reflection and prayer. They then continued their journey to Bray for the blessing of a plaque at St Peter's, and Mass at the Holy Redeemer.

There was a blessing at Springfield Cemetery in Bray on Monday afternoon followed by a later blessing at Crosstown Cemetery in Wexford, where Thomas, Sylvia, Jim, Christy and Mary are laid to rest. Members of the Gilbert and Lynch families, as well as Sylvia Connors, were from Bray.

At Mass in Bray on Monday, Father Dan Nguyen welcomed members of each family to the parish. 'We would like to send out our sincere sympathies to the Connors family, the Lynch family and the Gilbert family; today our heart goes out to all of you,' he said, before introducing Father Derek Farrell, parish priest of the Travelling Community.

'This is a very, very difficult and hard day for members of the three families here today,' said Fr Farrell. 'This first anniversary is a very significant moment, but it's only one moment. We know that there are many hard days ahead - the investigation report ahead, the coroner's report ahead. This is one hard day among many. We are here with the family members to celebrate memories of their loved ones who died one year ago today.' Fr Paddy Kelly, Chaplain to the Travellers, blessed the sad cluster of candles with incense as the names of the victims of the fire were read out to the congregation.

In a statement prepared by the families, they said that the lives of three families were changed forever by a devastating tragedy that shocked the whole of the community, the nation and the whole of the world. 'They went to bed full of expectations and the thought of their whole lives in front of them,' they said. 'Not in anybody's worst nightmare could it be imagined what lay ahead that night, and what devastation and horror their extended families would wake up to the next morning.

'Their families never come to terms with their loss. They just learn to live with it, with the support of each other and the community as a whole.' The Lynch family gave particular thanks to Jim O'Brien and the Bray Travellers Community Development Group for their unwavering support in the last year. 'To Jim in particular for always being at the end of the phone to answer questions that needed to be asked. For his constant visits to Fassaroe and for all his time transporting to and from places that the family needed to attend.'

They thanked Father Derek for his support and spiritual guidance and visits to their home. 'To the people of Bray for giving us the support, sympathy and prayers and strength to try and cope with our loss. To the community of Fassaroe thank you for all your cards, prayers, your words of support and most of all for being there when, as a family, we needed support. We will be forever grateful.' They thanked everyone who made collections, supplied food, and the schools who raised funds to erect a grotto that is situated at the top of Blind Lane in remembrance of those who lost their lives.

On Monday evening, Traveller community organisations led a candlelight vigil outside the Dáil. Surviving residents of the tragic halting site have been living in temporary accommodation in a Ballyogan council car park after residents of a nearby housing estate objected to them being placed there. Work is expected to start soon to rebuild permanent accommodation close to where the fire took place. The work is expected to be finished by next summer.

Meanwhile, the Bray Travellers Community Development group has been working with family members for the past 12 months. Jim O'Brien explained that overcrowding issues at the home of the Lynch family in Bray have been resolved. The group has been providing ongoing services to support the bereaved in the year since the tragedy and will continue to do so.

Wicklow People