http://leadership.ng/news/547554/well-create-wealth-crush-poverty-in-edo-obaseki
70
7
The Edo State governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr Godwin Obaseki has disclosed how his wealth creation agenda for the people of the state will be achieved when elected into office.

Obaseki, while speaking at an endorsement ceremony by some Edo youth political groups in Benin City, yesterday, said his administration would fund technical and commercial schools across the state to groom youths into becoming young millionaires.

The governorship candidate who expressed commitment towards providing better leadership for the Edo people, said he would make accessible, government’s support to grow their individual businesses and needed social infrastructure, aid wealth creation rather than depending on any individual.

He added that more emphasis would be placed on entrepreneurship training for the youths as well as invest in agriculture to boost the economy.

Obaseki said he would open up more communities through infrastructural development and address critical conditions besetting communities across the state.

He maintained that he joined politics because of his passion and commitment to serve as one who has been blessed by God.

He said, “We must create a deliberate means for people to enhance the source of income rather than depending on government jobs alone. There will be danger of insecurity ahead of the state if we do not train our youths to have the capacity to work in addition to their educational level”.

Meanwhile, the 16 villages and leaders of Iuleha-Uzebba have vowed to deliver Owan West local government area to the APC Governorship candidate, Mr Godwin Obaseki in the forthcoming governorship election in the state.

Speaking on behalf of Chief Samuel Dogo, the Auma of Utiebe, Chief Joshua Oni, said the decision to queue behind the APC candidate was because of the dividends of democracy that is evident in the 11 wards of the Uzebba community, saying that before Governor Adams Oshiomhole became the governor, the building and maintenance of schools were usually by community effort.