http://www.express.co.uk/news/uk/703512/Madeleine-McCann-Detectives-disappearance-apply-extra-funding
71
7
GETTY Madeleine McCann has been missing since 2007

In April, the Yard signalled the end of the £12 million Operation Grange once all the loose ends had been tied up. Theresa May, then Home Secretary, granted the police £95,000 in April which was expected to last until October. A police spokesman said yesterday: “Whilst there remains outstanding work on this case, the Metropolitan Police Service will remain in dialogue with the Home Office regarding the continuation of funding.”

Madeleine, of Rothley, Leics, was days from her fourth birthday when she vanished from a holiday villa in Praia da Luz, Portugal, in May 2007. Investigations by Portuguese and British police as well as teams of private detectives have failed to solve the mystery. Operation Grange was set up in May 2011 after heart doctor Gerry McCann, 47, and his ex-GP wife Kate, 48, who appealed directly to the then Prime Minister David Cameron and Mrs May.

GETTY In April, the Yard signalled the end of the £12 million Operation Grange

With Government funding guaranteed, a squad of 30 detectives was formed to investigate every possible lead. But in October the number of officers was cut to four as police finally ran out of clues.

GETTY The resort where Madeleine McCann went missing

GETTY Madeleine’s parents have never given up hope that their daughter will be found alive

Madeleine’s parents have never given up hope that their daughter will be found alive. On the anniversary of her disappearance in May, the couple said: “It has been a very long time but the investigation continues, information is still forthcoming and our hope and resolve continue.

Madeleine McCann. The search continues Tue, May 3, 2016 Please take the time to look at the various computer generated images of how Maddie might look now. Madeleine McCann was abducted on May 4th 2007, as she slept with her brother and sister in an apartment at the Ocean Club Resort in Praia da Luz in the Algarve, while her parents dined with friends at a nearby tapas bar Play slideshow ph 1 of 14 Madeline McCann went missing from a holiday apartment in Praia da Luz, in Portugal’s Algarve 9 years ago.