http://www.dailynews.com/opinion/20160923/stopping-opioid-dependence-epidemic-requires-new-thinking-guest-commentary
71
7
Last month, U.S. Surgeon General Dr. Vivek Murphy mailed more than 2 million letters to every physician in the country, enlisting help in fighting the opioid epidemic. In his appeal, Dr. Murphy recounted, “I will never forget my own patient whose opioid use disorder began with a course of morphine after a routine procedure.”

Why would the surgeon general — whose role is primarily to communicate to the public about improving their health — take the unprecedented step of appealing directly to physicians?

The answer is that our country has reached a similarly unprecedented and alarming level of opioid use. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), drug overdose is the leading cause of accidental death in the United States, with 18,893 overdose deaths in 2014 related to prescription pain relievers. In fact, the number of accidental overdoses has exceeded the number of deaths related to motor vehicle accidents every year since 2009. Opioid prevalence is also costly to our healthcare system, with care for users and misusers costing eight times more per year than non-opioid users and abusers.

There are also significant health risks associated with opioid use, including sleep disordered breathing (apnea) and respiratory distress, decreased cardiac functions, cognitive changes, immunological suppression and diminished analgesic response, in addition to tolerance, addiction and dependence.

The opioid epidemic has raised so much concern that in March 2016, the CDC issued final guidelines recommending that clinicians consider opioid therapy only if expected benefits for both pain and function are anticipated to outweigh risks to the patient. And the Food and Drug Administration recently issued new warnings about the dangers of combining opioids with benzodiazepines, which are used to treat conditions including anxiety, insomnia and seizures. So there is certainly increased pressure to avoid opioids from a variety of angles.

But pain is real and can be debilitating. Millions of individuals suffer every day from chronic pain; pain affects more Americans than diabetes, heart disease and cancer combined. Data from the National Health Institute shows that roughly 11 percent of American adults experience some form of pain every day, and 18 percent report suffering from severe pain. For these individuals, pain medication affords some measure of relief — and for many, it is a necessity for daily functioning at work and home.

Advertisement

To strike the right balance between these seemingly contradictory realities, we must understand that solutions are rarely cut-and-dried. Going forward, we must operate under a new paradigm: that pain is real and relief is necessary, but for the majority of individuals, treatment for short-term pain must be palliative rather than curative (managed over time, not “fixed” with highly addictive painkillers).

Because we know that long-term opioid dependence is often related to initially short-term use for acute pain (such as after surgery or trauma), healthcare practitioners must resist the quick fix of writing out a prescription for opioids in all cases. Instead, we must prioritize “head-to-toe” interventional pain management options, such as injections of local anesthetic into muscle, spine or abdomen; spinal cord electrical stimulators; and the delivery of certain meds directly to the spine. Even in cases of chronic pain, research tells us that here is very little evidence to support the use of opioids long-term for non-cancer pain. If and when used, opioids should be combined with non-pharmacologic and non-opioid pharmacologic therapy.

Weaning ourselves from opioid dependence will require buy-in from both patients and physicians. On their part, patients need to understand that the formerly accepted paradigm — that it’s fine to stay on pain medications unless and until you start getting adverse side effects — is wrong. We now know that opioids have serious side effects and, in most cases, significant downsides that override the short term benefits.

For their own health outcomes, patients should insist that their treating physicians work to determine alternatives that attack pain where it is centered, rather than treat the whole body with medication. This can make pain more manageable and can make patients’ lives more comfortable and productive without the risk of dependence or addiction. In those cases where acute pain mandates the use of strong prescription pain medication, patients should be aware that they should only take what is needed for short-term, acute pain — and then bring the rest of their prescribed pains to a Rx Medication Take-Back location.

Similarly, physicians must heed Dr. Murphy’s call and practice tough love with patients by curtailing opioid prescribing. There is already encouraging research that suggests oxycodone prescriptions are on the decline; other pain medication prescriptions should take the same path. Instead, physicians should refer patients to pain specialists, such as anesthesiologists, who take a broader, more holistic perspective on interventional pain management options.

September is Pain Awareness Month. It’s time for our country to move toward a national pain strategy that addresses the very real challenges faced by individuals in chronic pain, while combatting the high levels of opioid dependence and reducing healthcare expenditures. With will, determination and buy-in from both patients and physicians, we can make real inroads in the opioid epidemic..

Dr. Howard Rosner is medical director at the Pain Center, associate professor of anesthesiology, and director of the Pain Management Fellowship Program at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center.