http://www.msn.com/en-gb/news/uknews/first-picture-of-soldier-who-died-after-being-shot-in-head-during-military-training-exercise-in-northumberland/ar-BBvZScw
72
7
© Provided by Mirror Conor McPherson, from The Black Watch, 3 Battalion © Provided by Mirror This is the first picture of the young British soldier who died after being shot in the head during a live firing exercise at night.

Conor McPherson, from The Black Watch, 3 Battalion, was pronounced dead by paramedics called out at 11.15pm on Monday.

It is believed the 24-year-old was wearing his helmet and night goggles while training at Otterburn in Northumberland.

Today, Commanding Officer, Lieutenant Colonel Alasdair Steele said: "Private McPherson was a capable young soldier who had previously trained in both Kenya and France.

"He was hugely committed about his career in the Army, he had aspirations to join the Machine Gun platoon and attend a junior leadership course at the start of next year.

"He constantly drove to develop himself physically and was well liked among his peers for his sharp wit and sense of humour.

"However, Private McPherson’s true passion was to his parents and his older sister – he was part of a very close knit family, and his great joy was spending time with them at the weekends and over leave.

"The entire Battalion’s thoughts are very much with his family and friends."

Armed Forces Minister Mike Penning had previously said: “My thoughts are with the soldier’s family, friends and colleagues at this difficult time.

© Provided by Mirror Armed forces minister Mike Penning

"The safety of our personnel is our absolute priority and while deaths in training don’t happen often, any death is a tragedy.

"As well as a police investigation, MoD accident investigators are looking into the circumstances surrounding this tragic incident."

The Ministry of Defence confirmed the soldier’s next-of-kin have been informed and the incident was under investigation.

Hundreds of troops from ­Inverness-based 3 Scots arrived at Otterburn for live firing training last week.

Major Chris Hunter, QGM, a veteran of the second Iraq War, told the Daily Mirror: “The loss of a serviceman is always hard to bear – but especially so when it occurs during a training exercise.

“We take our liberties for granted but we’re only able to do so because members of our Armed Forces protect us from multi-dimensional threats.

“Dark forces are intent on causing us harm and we’re only able to go about our daily lives, because the men and women of our Armed Forces train to meet every one of those threats.

“While the loss of a serviceman is always hard to bear we must never lose sight of the fact that in these times of constant danger and uncertainty, we need to be realists; we need to be strong; and we need to rise to the challenge and accept the bitter truth that we’re playing by Big Boys Rules now - the only way to meet the expectations of warfare – and defeat those who wish to do us harm, is to conduct realistic and exhausting training. To train hard and fight easy.”

First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said: “This is a tragic incident and my deepest condolences go to the family, friends and colleagues of the soldier who has died.

"Our armed forces do a difficult and dangerous job at all times, and this is another stark reminder of that. My thoughts are with all who loved this brave soldier."

Yesterday a red flag was flying at the entrance to Otterburn training camp, warning the public a live firing exercise was underway.

In nearby Otterburn village there was a sense of shock at the tragedy.

Rev Peter Mander of the village's St John the Evangelist Church said: "There is a strong bond between the village and the camp and when a tragic event of this nature occurs it affects everyone.

"We hold our Remembrance services at the camp and I've been on a tour there myself so I've seen how rigorous the procedures are and how much care is taken.

"But of course live firing exercises are a crucial part of training and they carry a risk.

"There will be plenty time to establish what happened up there in the dark but now is the moment to reflect on the loss of a young life.

"He was a young man doing his duty, a bit of training and a tragic accident like this happens.

"Fortunately it's a rare event but it's no less tragic for that."

© Provided by Mirror

The Otterburn Army Training Estate is the largest firing range in the UK and covers about 93 square miles of the Southern Cheviot hills.

It is owned by the MoD and is used to train about 30,000 soldiers in a range of exercises every year.