http://www.politico.com/tipsheets/huddle/2016/08/politico-huddle-bayh-election-216065
71
7
CAN THE ‘BAYH’ NAME WIN THE ELECTION? — McCain warns on primary challenger’s donor — CLINTON-RYAN ON SAME SIDE ON POVERTY PLAN — Mylan to reduce EpiPen costs under pressure — MEET THE CEO/SENATOR’S DAUGHTER WHO SPIKED THE PRICE

By Rachael Bade (rbade@politico.com or @RachaelMBade)

CAN ONE WORD ‘BAYH’ WIN DEMOCRATS THE SENATE? Seung Min Kim, in Indianapolis, interviews Bayh while he’s nomming a half-pound charbroiled hamburger: “He's an opposition researcher's holy grail: a former senator who cashed in after leaving office by working for a Washington lobbying firm and serving on corporate boards, while buying expensive out-of-state homes and rarely showing up in the state where he now wants to serve again. By the normal laws of politics, Evan Bayh shouldn't have a prayer in the Indiana Senate race this fall…”

Story Continued Below

“Yet none of that will likely matter come Election Day. The Bayh brand still goes a long way in Indiana, and he's betting that his family's six-decade bond with voters is too durable for Republicans to tear down in a few months. Bayh's surprise decision to run again for the Indiana Senate seat he held for a dozen years not only upended the once-assured GOP victory here, but also vaulted the state high on the list of likely Democratic wins this November and bolstered the chances that Senate Democrats will regain the majority they lost two years ago.” http://politi.co/2bC2jDV

Bayh holding back? Bayh told Seung Min "I don't know" when asked whether he would've supported the bipartisan "Gang of Eight" comprehensive immigration reform bill. He said he hasn’t read the legislation, but… in April 2013, Bayh said on Fox News that the Gang of Eight’s deal hit the sweet spot and “this balance puts us on the path of solving the issue.” (Video here: http://bit.ly/2biFY0A) Bayh also initially told Seung Min he was unsure about whether he would support expanded background checks, which is interesting. Usually folks are very passionate one way or the other. A spokesperson later clarified that he does in fact support them.

MCCAIN: MY OPPONENT’S DONOR IS OUT FOR REVENGE. Burgess reporting from Scottsdale, Ariz: “A billionaire supporting Sen. John McCain’s underdog primary opponent may be doing so as payback, McCain said Wednesday. Robert Mercer, co-CEO of hedge fund Renaissance Technologies, gave $200,000 to a super PAC supporting Kelli Ward, McCain’s conservative challenger in next week's GOP primary. The money helped fuel a $600,000 ad campaign that alleges McCain ‘betrayed us on amnesty’ and boosts Ward."

“Two years ago, McCain and former Sen. Carl Levin (D-Mich.) issued a report that named Mercer's company as among more than a dozen firms that dodged billions in tax payments through a complicated financial product known as basket offerings. McCain said at the time that companies including Renaissance Technologies played ‘by a different set of rules’ and secured an ‘unfair tax advantage over ordinary citizens.’ On Wednesday, McCain suggested there’s a connection between Mercer's financial help for Ward and the scrutiny his company's trading practices received. The senator predicted that there will be ‘scandals in the future’ regarding campaign finance due to these shadowy connections.”

http://politi.co/2bxfxVx

"CNN Senate polls says McCain leads primary, general; Burr ahead in North Carolina." Theodoric Meyer for Campaign Pro: "GOP Sen. John McCain has a hefty lead over his primary challenger, former state Sen. Kelli Ward, ahead of Tuesday's primary, and he leads Democratic Rep. Ann Kirkpatrick in the general election, according to a new CNN poll . But the Republican incumbent in North Carolina is locked in a tighter race, as confirmed by a string of recent polls there. McCain is leading Ward, 55 percent to 29 percent, among likely GOP primary voters in Arizona. He leads Kirkpatrick 52 percent to 39 percent… GOP Sen. Richard Burr [has] a slight lead, 50 percent to 45 percent, over Democrat Deborah Ross among likely voters….The race was essentially tied at the presidential level in North Carolina, with Clinton at 48 percent and Trump at 47 percent among likely voters. North Carolina voters appeared much less likely to split their tickets than Arizona ones." http://politico.pro/2bOM0nL

T-MINUS FRIDAY. It’s Aug. 25, 2016. Thanks for reading Huddle, where we’re downing some Folgers before a busy day of meetings, meeting, meetings. You can reach me here: rbade@politico.com or tweet me at @rachaelmbade.

TODAY IN CONGRESS. Early escapes to happy hour?

AROUND THE HILL. Staffers getting ready for Congress to return in 1.5 weeks. At 2 p.m. in Russell there’s a staff briefing on concussion research and sports.

CLINTON, RYAN TEAM UP ON ANTI-POVERTY PLAN. They don’t agree on much, and don’t get used to reading headlines like this. But both are supporting a pitch by Rep. Jim Clyburn (D-S.C.) to send billions of dollars to some of the neediest neighborhoods, regardless of who wins Election Day. Our in-house budget wonk Ben Weyl has the read: “The math of the so-called 10-20-30 proposal is simple: At least 10 percent of a federal program’s funds should go to counties where 20 percent of the population has lived below the poverty line for 30 years.”

“Nearly 500 counties across the United States suffer from the kind of persistent poverty that would make them eligible for the plan's targeted funding, Clyburn says — and it would give more Republican lawmakers something to brag about to constituents than Democrats. In 2009, Clyburn likes to note, 84 Republicans represented those counties, compared with 43 Democrats. The GOP held 311 counties and Democrats represented 149. (In terms of total population, the parties were more evenly split, with Republicans representing 8.3 million people from those counties and Democrats representing 8.8 million; another 14 counties with 5.3 million people were split between Republicans and Democrats.) Perhaps for that reason, along with a new House speaker interested in chipping away at poverty, Clyburn has seen progress on Capitol Hill this year.” http://politi.co/2bHHw5f

MYLAN TO REDUCE EPIPEN COST UNDER PRESSURE. Bloomberg’s Kristen Hallam and Anna Edney with the read: “Mylan NV said it would take immediate action to cut the cost of its EpiPen emergency allergy shot following pressure from politicians including presidential candidate Hillary Clinton, who called past price increases ‘outrageous’ on Wednesday. Mylan will expand already existing programs to help people with high out-of-pocket expenses, according to a statement Thursday. By using a savings card, patients will get as much as $300 toward their EpiPen 2-Pak, effectively reducing costs by 50 percent for those who were previously paying the company’s full list price. The drugmaker is also doubling eligibility for its patient assistance program.” http://bloom.bg/2bQRVcc

Meet the Senator's daughter spiked the EpiPen cost. Bloomberg's Anna Edney and Billy House: "Members of Congress are in an unusual position as they demand an explanation for Mylan NV's 400 percent price hike for the EpiPen and focus attention squarely on its CEO: Heather Bresch. If lawmakers follow the usual script, Bresch could get called up to Capitol Hill next month to explain her company's justification for raising the price on the life-saving allergy shot. But that could be awkward, since she's the daughter of Democratic Senator Joe Manchin of West Virginia." http://bloom.bg/2bvGtES

“TEAM CRUZ ON TRUMP’S IMMIGRATION SHIFT: TOLD YOU SO.” Katie Glueck for POLITICO’s politics team: "As Donald Trump soft-pedals his once-hard-line immigration rhetoric, supporters of his vanquished primary foe Ted Cruz have one message for Republican voters: We told you so. Cruz spent the final months of his unsuccessful presidential primary run arguing that Trump was a not-so-closeted liberal whose conservative language on immigration was not to be trusted. Now, Trump says he is open to 'softening' the approach to some undocumented immigrants already in this country, a departure from his previous calls for a deportation force." http://politi.co/2bCMkdy

WEDNESDAY'S TRIVIA WINNER. Bruce Mehlman was the first to answer that Hubert Humphrey also ran for re-election in the Minnesota Senate race, which he won, and for Senate Majority Leader, which he to Robert C. Byrd.

TODAY'S HUDDLE. Comes from our runner-up on yesterday’s answer, Logan Ferree, in honor of the National Park Service's centennial today: A negative reaction to President Franklin Roosevelt's establishment of a new national park resulted in a law that restricts the President from establishing or enlarging a national park or monument in what state, without Congressional authorization? Name the park as well. Bonus points if you can list some of the famous landmarks, canyons or park attractions. The first person to correctly answer gets a shout-out in tomorrow's Huddle. Email me: rbade@politico.com

GET HUDDLE emailed to your Blackberry, iPhone or other mobile device each morning. Just enter your email address where it says "Sign Up." http://www.politico.com/huddle/.