https://www.sott.net/article/330151-If-Israel-has-the-right-to-defend-itself-so-does-Syria
72
7
Is Israel Defending Itself or Defending Occupation/Apartheid?

"President Obama spoke with Prime Minister Netanyahu this morning to reaffirm the United States' strong support for Israel's right to defend itself.... Hamas' attacks are unacceptable and would be unacceptable to any member state of the United Nations. Israel has the right to defend its citizens and prevent these attacks."

28

2900 deaths

The Israeli government is not defending itself; it is imposing punishment on a captive and defenceless population.

The Syrian State is Under Real Attack

This important fact is generally ignored by western media.

The Foreign Factor

heavily supported by foreign governments.

Violating International Law

"the United States of America, by training, arming, equipping, financing and supplying the contra forces or otherwise encouraging, supporting and aiding military and paramilitary activities in and against Nicaragua, has acted, against the Republic of Nicaragua, in breach of its obligation under customary international law not to intervene in the affairs of another State".

"What the U.S. government is doing in Syria is tantamount to a war of aggression, which, according to the Nuremberg Tribunal, is the worst possible crime a State can commit against another State."

Soft Power aligned with Hard Violent Power

"THE SALAFIST [sic], THE MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD, AND AQI ARE THE MAJOR FORCES DRIVING THE INSURGENCY IN SYRIA."

The Current Situation and Coming Crisis

Largely unreported in the West

"Aleppo soon will be freed from the jihadis that invaded & destroyed it. After 4 years of hell its people will finally know peace."

The public should be wary of media stories based on the claims of biased actors and not supported by solid evidence

The Syrian government has the right to defend itself against foreign funded violent extremists seeking to destroy it.

The relentless media campaign against Syria is intended to conceal the fact that Syria is defending itself against a war of aggression waged against by or with the complicity of the Western powers. The contrast between the way the West reacts to Israeli actions purportedly in self-defence, and the way it condemns far more justified actions in self-defence made by Syria, exposes the truth about Western aggression against Syria.There is a hypocritical disconnect in Western and especially U.S. foreign policy. When it comes to Israel, the US is quick to claim "Israel has a right to defend itself". For Syria, that same right does not seem to exist.When Israel executed intense bombing campaigns against Gaza in 2008, 2012 and 2014 the US justified the attacks. At the United Nations on 18 July 2014, US Ambassador Samantha Power said Israel claims it is simply responding defensively. The human rights group BtSelem reports thatHowever,Using this as a justification, Israel has attacked by air and invaded every few years with extreme discrepancy in casualty rates. For example.....With so few deaths and little damage caused by the rockets from Gaza, it seems Palestinians have launched these as almost symbolic protests against Israeli repression. The Gazan economy is hugely restricted, the borders are closed, and even the sky and ocean are off limits.Many people would say thatIn addition, many residents of Gaza are descendants of refugees from nearby Israeli towns and cities.In summary, Palestinians have launched rockets and mortars to protest Israeli occupation and apartheid policies.The Palestinians are not seeking overthrow of the Israeli state so much as recognition of their rights and an end to the Occupation. Casualties have been few.In response,The situation in Syria is dramatically different.Data from the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights show the following number of casualties since March 2011: Pro Government forces (army and militias) - 105,000 ; Anti Government forces - 101,000; Civilians - 86,000.These numbers show the intensity of violence. They also indicate how wrong it is for critics to blame Assad and the Syrian government for all the deaths. As shown,It is frequently claimed that protests only became violent after peaceful protests were brutally crushed.There were seven police killed in the first protests in Deraa. That was soon followed by dozens of soldiers being massacred in Deraa and Banyas at the end of March and in April 2011.The conflict in Aleppo is currently in the news. This was the largest city in Syria and the country's industrial and financial engine.The largest and most effective opposition force in Aleppo is the Al Qaeda associated Nusra.. Most of the groups are explicitly Wahhabi sectarian and are hostile to secularism, Christianity and moderate Islamic faiths.Daily they launch hell cannon missiles into western Aleppo, killing randomly. Car bombs have killed thousands of civilians and soldiers. Tunnel bombs have killed thousands more.Aleppo was relatively quiet until the summer of 2012 when thousands of armed fighters invaded and occupied neighbourhoods in the eastern part of the city.The 'rebels' were disliked by the majority of the population from the start. This was documented even by western journalists such as James Foley and Stephen Sotloff who went there inclined to be sympathetic to the opposition.Martin Chulov of the Guardian described East Aleppo in 2015 and estimated its population at just 40K. In sharp contrast, there is a large population of about 1.5 million Syrians living in the rest of the city. This is reflective of the reality:This includes many who are critical of the Baath Party and who want reforms but not violence and destruction.The current situation in Western Aleppo is described by journalist Eva Bartlett.In contrast with the Israeli situation, the Syrian government is truly fighting to defend itself against an armed opposition that is violent, sectarian and unpopular with the large majority of Syrians.Western states and their Gulf allies have supplied weapons , training, logistical support and salaries for many thousands of fighters. Qatar's Al Jazeera has broadcast misinformation, fabricated stories and heavily biased reporting from the start.The same governments have been complicit in the recruitment and travel to Syria by thousands of foreigners from all parts of the globe.European, North American and Australian governments "looked the other way" as their citizens were recruited and then traveled to Syria via Turkey to join ISIS or Nusra.According to one study That was before ISIS peaked. Only in the last year, following terrorist actions in the West, have Western governments started arresting or detaining recruits and recruiters.The situation in Syria is more extreme but has similarities to the situation in Nicaragua in the 1980s. On 27 June 1986, the International Court of Justice ruled:The court also decided the US should make reparations to Nicaragua for injury caused by the violations.The former Nicaragua Foreign Minister and former President of the United Nations General Assembly, Father Miguel D'Escoto, has written(personal correspondence quoted with permission)Some foreign governments seeking overthrow of Damascus have poured huge amounts of money into 'smart' or 'soft power'.They have funded an array of organisations with nice-sounding names to control the narrative and influence public opinion.There is the Syrian Justice and Accountability Centre, initiated by Secretary Clinton,There is the Syrian Network for Human RightsThere is the Syrian Civil Defense also known as the White Helmets All of these organisations, and many more, are said to be "Syrian". They all claim to be "independent". HoweverThese and other organisations support the opposition in various ways, demonise the Syrian government, and romanticise the opposition.They are 'soft power' acting in concert with hard and violent power.For example the White Helmets was originally called the Syrian Civil Defence and began with a military contractor training some Syrians in Turkey.This group was then rebranded as the "White Helmets" by a New York marketing company called "The Syria Campaign".Since then, the "feel good" White Helmets brand has been heavily promoted. As a measure of marketing success, the White Helmets recently won the Right Livelihood Award for 2016, and are even nominated for a Nobel Peace Prize.Ironically, there is a REAL Syrian Civil Defense working since 1953, and a REAL White Helmets/CascosBlancos from Argentina, which have received little recognition alongside the slick new "White Helmets" created and promoted by the shadowy PR firm. Thus we are not told that the Syrian government is defending against terrorists but we are told that the "Assad regime" is '"targeting hospitals and civilian markets".Are the claims true? My investigation ofThe "hospital" was an unmarked building; the damage was unclear; the number of deaths varied wildly and could not be verified. The photographic evidence, supplied by the ubiquitous White Helmets, was dubious.The investigation resulted in a open letter to MSF . So farDoctors Without Borders / MSF continues to issue politically biased messages. Their recent 2nd October 2016 tweet about a "bloodbath in East Aleppo" led to false accusations that two teenagers were killed by Syrian government bombing when they were actually killed by terrorist bombing.Currently the Union of Medical Care and Relief Organisations (UOSSM), funded by France and other countries, has been at the forefront of accusing Syria and Russia of intentionally bombing an underground hospital.The reports seem to be based on phone or Skype conversations with sources of unknown reliability.Is that true? On the contrary, key ministries including Defence and Foreign Affairs are held by Sunni leaders. The majority of the Syrian Arab Army are Sunni. Visitors to Syria readily meet mothers who are proud of their sons who died defending their country against foreign backed terrorism.The narrative promoted by 'soft power' is that the Syrian uprising was largely progressive, secular, and seeking democracy.In a classified report from August 2012 they analysed the conflict as follows:"Soft power" in Syria has involved the creation and funding of Syrian groups who convey a message supportive of the regime change goals.For example there is a group in the town of Kafranbel which produces an English language banner each week. They are provided with the message by a foreign source and the group holds the banner to be photographed and displayed on social media in the West. Most of the locals probably have no clue what it says.Then there is the Aleppo Media Center which creates videos targeting Western audience, and the White Helmets previously discussed.These Western created groups are the examples of the "Syrian Revolution" by those who promote this narrative. What kind of "revolution" is on contract with the US State Department?The Syrian Army and popular militias have suffered huge losses but are advancing. In the last year, Russia has provided crucial air support.Currently the Syrian government and allies are seeking to crush or expel Nusra and other terrorist groups in eastern Aleppo. If that is successful, they could then focus on ISIS in Raqqa and on remaining terrorists in other parts of the country.Unlike densely populated Gaza, the opposition held areas of Aleppo have very few civilians. Although civilian casualties happen in all wars,This has been successfully used to clear the last remnant of terrorists from Al Waer near Homs and from Darraya near Damascus. Many thousands of Syrian fighters who were coerced or bribed into joining the opposition have laid down their arms, signed an agreement, and rejoined society.In contrast with the frenzy and alarm in Western media and political circles, there is a growing optimism and hope among the vast majority of people in Aleppo. Syrian journalist Edward Dark recently tweetedThey are looking forward to the final defeat or expulsion of the terrorists who invaded the city in 2012.What will the foreign enemies of Syria do to prevent this? Will they continue or escalate their campaign to destroy Syria as they destroyed Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya? Are they prepared to risk potential World War III with Russia?In the last month Turkey sent troops into northern Syria and the USA attacked the Syrian Army in Deir Ezzor, killing over 62 soldiers. The U.S. claims this was an accident, butSince the collapse of the cessation of hostilities, 'soft power' propaganda has escalated. Accusations that the Syrians and Russians are targeting hospitals are linked to new social media campaigns to "Save Aleppo". Two things are clear:Rick Sterling is an investigative journalist and member of Syrian Solidarity Movement.