http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/politics-and-nation/zakir-naik-ngos-fcra-record-may-be-clean/articleshow/53937988.cms
73
7
NEW DELHI: The Islamic Research Foundation, the NGO run by Salafist preacher Zakir Naik , may come out clean on foreign donations received, but may still face a ban under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) after solicitor-general Ranjit Kumar wrote to the Ministry of Home Affairs asking it to take action against the televangelist.As many as 50 youth from different parts of the country, including Mumbai resident Areeb Majeeb , were reportedly influenced by Naik's speeches and were ready to join global terror outfit, Islamic State, said investigators who probed IS module busted recently.The accounts of Naik's NGO that has been accused of violating the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act is still being examined. In its reply submitted before the home ministry last week, Naik's NGO has given details of funds reportedly received in 2014 from Dubai with an explanation on expenditure, a senior MHA official added on the condition of anonymity.The NGO has received nearly `93 lakh from Dubai in 2014. Naik's spokesperson Arif Malik told ET: "In 2014-15, MHA carried out inspection of our accounts and foreign donation utilisation and after three weeks of exhaustive investigations gave us a clean chit.Not much has changed since then." Officials admitted Naik's NGO has been regularly filing returns and have kept the central authorities in the loop whenever it has received foreign donation. Section 9(e) of FCRA , 2010, makes it mandatory for NGOs to seek prior permission of the MHA before accepting foreign contributions and can be penalised if such funds are used for activities prejudicial to harmony between religious, racial, social, linguistic or regional groups, castes or communities.The fiery preacher came under the radar after his name cropped up during the Dhaka attack. One of the attackers had claimed that Naik's speeches had inspired him. Twenty two people, mostly foreigners, including an Indian were massacred in an upscale restaurant in Dhaka in the attack. Mumbai police in its report to Centre blamed Naik's speeches for creating prejudice regarding other religions by telling how other religions holy books and its beliefs are wrong. His statements are against religious harmony and peaceful co-existence, the cops had claimed. Naik is believed to be in Saudi Arabia and is slated to return towards the end of this year.