http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/hospital-car-parks-firm-announce-9054137
10
1
Jeremy Hunt has been urged to scrap hospital parking that targets the sick, the distressed and the staff

One of Britain’s biggest hospital parking firms has posted a huge leap in profits – on the back of hard-working staff, sick patients and distressed visitors, a Sunday Mirror investigation shows.

Parking Eye made £5.9million last year – up from £4.8million in 2014.

The bumper 22 per cent increase comes as it emerges one in three hospitals increased their parking fees in the past year – despite government promises to end the rip off charges of up to £4 per hour.

Campaigners say families of cancer sufferers and other patients receiving long-term treatment are hit particularly hard.

Getty Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland have already abolished charges

Christine McAnea, Head of Health at public services union Unison, said yesterday: “It adds insult to injury that hospital patients and hardworking staff have no option but to line the pockets of greedy car parking companies.

"These ever-increasing charges are fuelling huge company profits. It’s time this unfair tax on care ended.”

The Sunday Mirror – backed by Labour and Tory MPs – has urged Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt to scrap the fees, which can rake in more than £200million a year for NHS trusts. Scotland and Wales, Northern Ireland have already abolished them.

Department of Health guidelines say people with disabilities, those who need frequent appointments and staff on shifts must be given free or cheap parking. Trusts say nearly all the income goes towards running costs of the car parks.

Parking Eye runs more than 900 sites – including supermarkets and retail parks. Founder David Taylor, 66, pocketed around £17million when it was sold to outsourcing giant Capita for £57.5m in 2013.

A Parking Eye spokesman said: “Less than 10 per cent of our enforcement activities are at NHS sites and parking tariffs are set by NHS trusts. ParkingEye is a member of the British Parking Association and follows its code of practice.”