http://thezimbabwemail.com/business-10212-sa-in-economic-crisis-like-many-other-countries-since-2008-meltdown-zuma.html
70
7
SA IS “in a crisis” — like many of its peers around the world battling to regain economic growth rates since the 2008 global meltdown, President Jacob Zuma said on Tuesday.

Briefing the media on his administration’s progress since he delivered his state of the nation address in February, Mr Zuma said although not all was “doom and gloom”, the country’s policy space needed improvement.

“Where we have more challenge is in the implementation of good policies rather than no policies at all. Everybody knows where we are going.”

The president also announced a number of interventions in energy, tourism and business, which he said would improve investment and lift the ailing economy’s growth rate.

Among these were: establishing an inter-ministerial committee on immigration to investigate the consequences of new visa regulations on tourism and the economy; and setting up an investment facilitation centre to cut out administration hurdles and support investment.

Also, said the president, the country’s controversial nuclear build programme, which has been shrouded in secrecy, was at an “advanced stage”.

The government “noted with concern” complaints about the effects of the new visa regulations on tourism and the economy. On energy, Mr Zuma said procurement for the nuclear build programme “should be concluded within the current financial year”.

Speaking on the threat of job losses in the mining and steel industries, Mr Zuma said these were “of serious concern” and hoped that a series of meetings between the mineral resources minister and industry players would yield “a positive outcome”.

The economy could benefit from the industrialisation drive in other states on the continent.

In February, the state announced a nine-point plan which included resolving the country’s energy challenges, advancing beneficiation, improving industrial policy and stabilising the labour markets.

This plan, said Mr Zuma, could potentially accelerate growth by as much as 0.8% in the short term and 1% in the medium-long term. – Business Day