https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/nationals-journal/wp/2016/08/28/lucas-giolito-recalled-to-start-sunday-wilmer-difo-optioned-to-class-aa-harrisburg/
73
7


Lucas Giolito struggled in his two most recent big league starts, and gets his fourth Sunday. (Mike Stobe/Getty Images)

As expected, and as required by major league rules given that he was scheduled to start a few hours later, the Nationals recalled Lucas Giolito from Class AAA Syracuse Sunday morning. To make room, they optioned infielder Wilmer Difo to Class AA Harrisburg, a somewhat unorthodox pitcher-for-position player switch made necessary by injuries and major league rules regarding call-ups.

Rosters expand Sept. 1, meaning the Nationals can bring up any player on their 40-man roster without conforming to the usual 25-man allotment. But the rule that requires a player to remain in the minor leagues 10 days after being sent down still applies — at least until the team a player is optioned to finishes its schedule. The Chiefs and Senators end their season on Monday, Sept. 5, so Difo will be eligible to come back after that.

The Nationals might have chosen to option A.J. Cole out after his start Saturday and maintain their pitcher-to-position player ratio, then called up a different young starter like they did at other times this season. But with Giolito starting Sunday, the likeliest replacement would have been rookie Reynaldo Lopez. Lopez was sent down Thursday when the Nationals acquired relief pitcher Marc Rzepczynski, and therefore cannot return until his 10 days are up next weekend in New York — after that spot in the rotation comes around again.

Cole, therefore, will stay. Difo goes back from whence he came, Harrisburg, for 10 days before he can be called up for the rest of September, too. The Nationals will play with a short bench until they option out another pitcher — a bench consisting of Clint Robinson, Chris Heisey, Jose Lobaton and Ben Revere — though Revere is in Sunday’s starting lineup to give Jayson Werth a day off.

Revere will play left field, while Trea Turner stays in center. Everyone else is back in there after the 11-inning loss Saturday, including catcher Wilson Ramos. Ramos will catch Giolito, who is making his fourth major league start. He has pitched 11 innings combined and is working to a 4.91 ERA.

LINEUPS

NATIONALS

Turner CF

Revere LF

Murphy 2B

Harper RF

Rendon 3B

Ramos C

Zimmerman 1B

Espinosa SS

Giolito P

ROCKIES

Blackmon CF

LeMahieu 2B

Gonzalez RF

Arenado 3B

Dahl LF

Parra 1B

Descalso SS

Wolters C

Bettis P