http://www.khmertimeskh.com/news/30147/pm-defends-gov---t-rice-efforts/
71
7
The country’s rice farmers are still making a profit, even if prices are over 20 percent lower than last year, Prime Minister Hun Sen told a cabinet meeting on Friday.



The only reason anyone was able to farm in the battle-scarred northwest provinces was due to government infrastructure development, he claimed, and stressed that last week’s emergency allocation of $20 million to the Rural Development Bank (RDB) to assist farmers was also helping the whole rice sector.



“We, the government, made lots of effort by transforming those areas from battlefields into peaceful areas where they [farmers] can harvest rice and other crops. We built an irrigation network spanning hundreds of kilometers and spent vast sums of money installing water pumps for their rice fields,” he said.



“Our farmers have lots of rice. The high yield production per hectare is between three to five tons,” he stressed. “They still make profits from selling the crop although they sell it at the price of 800,000 riel ($200) per ton since they invested about 1.5 million riel ($375) per hectare,” he said.



Farmers across the country have complained that they are being offered prices as low as 600,000 riel ($150) per ton. This led to farmers in Battambang province blocking National Road 5 in protest last fortnight.



Mr. Hun Sen, however, said that complaints against the government’s response were unfounded, and political in nature.



“We are working too hard, while the opposition just looks at the mistakes and gets the upper hand in taking political advantage from the situation,” he said.



The prime minister insisted that the situation was far from bleak and claimed that the industry was instead suffering from oversupply.



“With quite an amount of rice surplus, the burden now for us is how to deal with it. We have to improve our storage and drying facilities so that the rice can be kept longer. Also we can look at using the surplus rice as humanitarian assistance.”



Last week, the RDB announced that it would distribute the $20 million from the government, in addition to $7 million of its own funds, to struggling farmers and rice millers, at a rate of eight percent annual interest. The money is hoped to allow rice millers, who have complained of a lack of capital and cheap imports from abroad, to pay rice farmers last year’s price for their crop.



Hun Lak, the Cambodia Rice Federation’s vice-president, told Khmer Times that there was a crisis in the rice sector, caused by domestic and external market factors.



“The external factors are falling international markets for rice and the flooding of the country of cheaper-priced rice from neighboring countries.”



“The domestic factors involve [needing to] lower rice production costs amidst lower supply of paddy rice for milling,” said Mr. Lak, noting that the country needs to learn from its neighbors about how to lower production costs.