http://www.themalaymailonline.com/malaysia/article/fourteen-passenger-boats-skippers-at-tanjung-dawai-jetty-licensed
70
7
Fourteen passenger boats, skippers at Tanjung Dawai jetty licensed

SUNGAI PETANI, Oct 31 — All 14 passenger boats operating at the Tanjung Dawai jetty, here, have valid licence and are equipped with safety equipment such as life jackets and buoys.

Northern Region Marine Department director, Capt Abdul Samad Shaik Osman said the initial investigation also found that all the skippers possessed the certification to enable them to operate the boats.

“Today, I personally made my rounds to check on the safety situation at Tanjung Dawai and the landing area at Pantai Merdeka.

“We found that all the 14 boats were licensed and equipped with life jackets while the skippers are qualified to navigate the boats,” he told Bernama after a check around Tanjung Dawai jetty, today.

Yesterday, two people drowned while 11 others survived when a boat carrying 12 passengers and its skipper from Tanjung Dawai to Pantai Merdeka capsized after hitting the anchor chain of a trawler in the 10.30am incident.

“I will recommend to the local authority to upgrade the Tanjung Dawai jetty and build a jetty at Pantai Merdeka,” he said.

Abdul Samad said the department would provide technical assistance as the Northern Region Marine Department had experience in the maintenance of public ferry wharves.

“In the northern region alone there are four jetties providing ferry service from the mainland to island resorts such as Langkawi and Pangkor Islands.

“There are also jetties at Tanjung Gemok in Kuantan, Pahang; Mersing, Muar and Batu Pahat in Johor; and Port Klang and Pulau Ketam in Selangor,” he said.

When asked to comment on allegations that the passengers who died in the incident yesterday were not wearing life jackets, he said the initial investigation revealed that all the passengers wore life jackets.

“It is still not ascertained if the anchor chain was in the area due to negligence or it had been pulled by the currents from elsewhere.

“We will meet the Fisheries Department, the fishermen’s association and boat operators’ association to find ways to ensure the sea is safe and no such incidents will recur,” he said.

Abdul Samad also praised the quick action of other boat operators in their rescue efforts following the incident yesterday. — Bernama