http://www.thedailystar.net/backpage/hc-adjourns-delivery-judgment-1278736
71
7
The High Court yesterday adjourned delivery of the judgment on a writ petition that challenged the legality of Nizam Uddin Hazari's holding Jatiya Sangsad membership.

The court directed the jail authorities to submit a report to it within 30 days stating how many times Nizam, an Awami League lawmaker from Feni, had donated blood voluntarily during imprisonment in a criminal case and how many days he was granted remission.

The HC bench of Justice Md Emdadul Huq and Justice Md Iqbal Kabir fixed November 3 for further hearing on the petition.

The court started announcing the judgment on Tuesday. As it resumed the proceedings yesterday afternoon, Nizam's lawyer Nurul Islam Sujan told the court that his client was granted a remission of 486 days for donating blood 13 times.

The court said as it does not have any report from the jail authorities, it wanted the lawmaker's claim to be verified.

Earlier, the AL leader had submitted a certificate from Sandhani, a voluntary blood donation organisation, through his lawyer to the HC claiming that he donated blood 13 times, and he was entitled to get a remission of 486 days.

Shakhawat Hossain Bhuiyan, a Jubo League leader of Feni, had filed the writ petition as public interest litigation with the HC on June 8, 2014, claiming that Nizam resorted to forgery to get out of jail early in a criminal case and run in the parliamentary polls in January 2014.

In the petition, he prayed to the court to declare Nizam disqualified for contesting the polls and his holding the office of a lawmaker illegal.

Quoting a newspaper report, Shakhawat in his petition said a Chittagong court had sentenced Nizam to 10 years' imprisonment in an arms case on August 16, 2000. Following his surrender to the court on September 14, 2000, he was sent to Chittagong jail to serve the jail term.

But he was behind bars for only five years and was freed on December 1, 2005, through fraudulence, the Jubo League leader added.

He said Nizam was supposed to be in jail until September 13, 2010, and he, as per law, was not supposed to be eligible to run in parliamentary polls before September 2015.

The petitioner said Nizam had provided false information to the Election Commission about serving his jail term.