http://www.sfgate.com/business/article/SolarCity-CEO-says-more-customers-buying-power-9947606.php
70
7
SolarCity CEO says more customers buying power systems

SolarCity said it’s selling more rooftop power systems, after revamping its loan program to make buying more attractive to customers.

The San Mateo company, which is in the midst of a takeover by Tesla Motors, saw cash sales and loans account for more than 30 percent of installations last month, up from about 20 percent in the second quarter, Chief Executive Officer Lyndon Rive said Thursday.

The shift will give a near-term boost to SolarCity’s revenue, after the company racked up $3.35 billion in debt by leasing rooftop panels. Growth has slowed, and new orders in the first quarter were almost half of management’s expectations. To help spur demand, the company in May began offering 10- to 30-year loans to help customers buy the systems, eliminating a more complicated loan program.

“Loans have increased every month since we started” offering the new loan structure, Rive said. “People like to own, and if you can take advantage of the tax credits it’s a better product.”

Leasing is losing favor in the United States, and will account for less than half of new installations next year, down from more than 70 percent in 2014, according to GTM Research. Consumers are becoming more aware of the financial benefits that come with owning their own panels, as well as the potential complications of signing 20-year contracts for rooftop solar systems.

More sales and loans means more revenue now, at the expense of the decades-long trickle from leases that make up the rest of SolarCity’s business and are still the company’s main offering.

“It improves their income statement by adding revenue in the near-term,” Pavel Molchanov, an analyst at Raymond James Financial, said Friday. While it deprives SolarCity of the benefits of the long-term financing model, it does provide an entry to new markets, he said. “It will help with geographical expansion. Some states don’t allow third-party leasing.”

The change may improve the company’s balance sheet as it seeks shareholder approvals to be acquired by Tesla Motors this year, in a stock deal valued at about $2.1 billion. Some Tesla shareholders have criticized the deal, which has been seen as a bailout of SolarCity that would drag the electric-car company down.

The loan offering is helping SolarCity expand into more states, including those that ban the third-party ownership model like South Carolina, Rive said. The company opened an office in Charleston this week that will offer loans for rooftop installations but not leases.

“The uptake has been fantastic,” Rive said. “It will continue to increase.”

Christopher Martin is a Bloomberg writer. Email: cmartin11@bloomberg.net