http://www.express.co.uk/news/politics/718434/Tony-Blair-political-COMEBACK-PM-distraught-state-Labour
71
7
GETTY Tony Blair hinted at a possibly political comeback as he lamented the politcal status qou

In an astonishing magazine interview, the former Labour prime minister admitted to feeling "motivated" by the current polarised state of Westminster politics and distraught at the lurch to the Left of his own party. He feared the country was becoming divided between the extremes of an "ultra-Left" Labour Party under Jeremy Corbyn and the "hard Brexit" Tories led by Theresa May. Britain needed a new "centre ground" force in the mould of the "New Labour" party he created, Mr Blair said.

And he added that it was an "open question" whether he could return to frontline politics to play a key role in rebuilding a centrist party that could challenge the resurgent Tories. Mr Blair's hint, in an interview with Esquire magazine, was seen as a sign of an extraordinary lack of awareness of the impact of his own style of leadership on public trust in Westminster. Tory MP Andrew Bridgen said: "I believe that Tony Blair's time in politics diminished people's belief in politicians and their ability to deliver on their promises. "He was responsible for a huge decline in the public's faith in politics and that is something we have still not got over.

"We certainly do not need another dose of Tony Blair and his spin."

I think it's too soon to say the centre has been defeated Former PM Tony Blair

In the interview, Mr Blair described the current divisions at Westminster as "a tragedy". He said: "It's a tragedy for British politics if the choice before the country is a Conservative government going for a hard Brexit and an ultra-left Labour Party that believes in a set of policies that takes us back to the Sixties. "In the UK at the moment you've got a one party state. When you put it all together, there's something seriously wrong." Mr Blair accepted there had been a backlash against centrist politics but insisted a resurrection was possible. He said: "There's been a huge reaction against the politics I represent. "But I think it's too soon to say the centre has been defeated.

GETTY Mr Blair said it was an 'open question' whether he could return to frontline politics

"Ultimately I don't think it will. I think it will succeed again. "The centre ground is in retreat. This is our challenge. We've got to rise to that challenge." Asked about his own role, he responded: "I don't know if there's a role for me. "There's a limit to what I want to say about my own position at this moment. All I can say is that this is where politics is at. "Do I feel strongly about it? Yes, I do. Am I very motivated by that? Yes. Where do I go from here? What exactly do I do? That's an open question."

Jeremy Corbyn wins Labour leadership election Sat, September 24, 2016 Jeremy Corbyn has won the Labour leadership race against rival Owen Smith in the election contest that lasted three months. Play slideshow Getty Images 1 of 12 Jeremy Corbyn MP (R) hugs Shadow Chancellor John McDonnell after being announced as the leader of the Labour Party on the eve of the party's annual conference at the ACC on September 24, 2016

GETTY The former PM insisted the issue was not Jeremy Corbyn but the two cultures in the party

His signal of a possible comeback follows his recent decision to close down most of the business empire he created since leaving office. A statement last month said the "substantial reserves" that Tony Blair Associates had accumulated would be donated to not-for-profit work In the interview, Mr Blair was scathing about Labour's future. He said: "This is not about Jeremy Corbyn. It's about two different cultures in one organism. One culture is the culture of the Labour Party as a party of government. "And that, historically, is why Labour was formed: to win representation in Parliament and ultimately to influence and to be the government of the country.

GETTY Mr Blair described an ultra-left elements in the party that are concerned with action on the street