http://www.vanguardngr.com/2016/10/im-hale-hearty-says-okowa/
73
7
By Festus Ahon

ASABA—Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State said, yesterday, that he neither collapsed nor was flown abroad for medical attention as reported by a section of the social and main stream media.

Okowa, who spoke at the Government House Chapel, Asaba, said he was hale and hearty, describing the reports as falsehood.

He added that it was unfair and uncharitable to disseminate false information against him.

“It is very unfortunate, at this age and time, that people will intentionally misinform others when there are opportunities to find out what might have happened. I was told that certain sections of the social media reported that I had been flown abroad for medical treatment. When and how did that happen?

“I have been very busy treating hundreds of files on my table. The truth is that last Wednesday, I entered the washroom in my office and one of the tiles fell off from the wall and I had a minor cut on my head. It was treated and had two stitches, and I am okay. People know I am a workaholic and that was why it didn’t stop me from working. I am hale and hearty.”

…Says Anaba is a thoroughbred

Meanwhile, Governor Okowa ,yesterday congratulated Mr Eze Anaba on his appointment as the Editor of Vanguard Newspaper, describing him as a thoroughbred professional, whose contributions to the growth of journalism in Nigeria is laudable.

Okowa, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Charles Aniagwu, in Asaba, said it was expected that Anaba would eventually attain the highly-esteemed position of Editor, going by his contributions to the journalism profession.

Noting that Anaba, over the years, had proved his mettle in the profession, the governor described his appointment as well deserved and “an inspiration to many journalists striving to make a name in the pen profession.

“I have no doubt in my mind that the cap fits Mr Anaba. He has a proven track record of excellence in journalism, which has seen him rise through the ranks to the pinnacle of the profession,” Okowa said.

He urged the new Editor to bring his wealth of experience to bear, not only in advancing the cause of the newspaper, but also the journalism profession in general.

Okowa said: “I urge Mr. Anaba to see his new appointment as one that comes at a time when Nigerians expect the media to do more in setting agenda for the overall development of the country by playing its role as the watchdog of the society.”