http://www.dailymail.co.uk/indiahome/indianews/article-3840090/AAP-head-Arvind-Kejriwal-seeks-Patel-support-Mehsana-village-clean-Gujarat-politics-ahead-polls.html
16
1
Amid speculations of AAP planning to make a determined bid in poll-bound Gujarat, party chief and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal sought the support of the Patel community on Saturday, 'to clean the politics of Gujarat'.

Addressing a public gathering at Patel-dominated Piludra village in Mehsana, Kejriwal said that the village holds special significance as the quota agitation by the community started here a year ago.

Meanwhile, a little known outfit staged a protest in the village, over his remarks on cross-LoC surgical strikes.

Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal waves to people as he arrives to meet the family of a victim of last year's Patidar agitation in Ahmedabad

Recalling that AAP could make a clean sweep in Delhi in the 2015 Assembly polls with the support of the common man, Kejriwal sought to draw a parallel with Anna Hazare’s anti-corruption campaign and the Patidar agitation.

“I salute your courage, as I came to know that the Patidar agitation originated from this village. A few years back, we did the Anna Andolan against rampant corruption in the country.

“We asked the government to enact a strict law to curb corruption, as we did not have such powers. But instead of fulfilling our demand, we were asked to form a government to bring such law.

Patidar community leader Hardik Patel during their Kranti Rally for reservation

“As we did not have any other option, we formed a party and acquired 67 out of 70 seats in Delhi. This is the power of the common man,” Kejriwal said to a cheering crowd, mostly from the Patel community.

“The Patel agitation started from this village. Now, I request you to start another movement to clean the politics of Gujarat from this village. We all have to come together to fight against corruption and clean Gujarat’s politics,” Kejriwal added.

The Delhi CM also raised the slogan of ‘Jai Sardar, Jay Patidar’ several times. He paid floral tributes to Sardar Patel’s statue in Mehsana.

He visited Kaamli village, where he met the kin of Nagjibhai, a constable who committed suicide last month allegedly due to harassment by bootleggers and local politicians.

At the village, he also met the parents of Kanubhai Patel, a Patidar youth who died during quota agitation, last year.

He then visited the Umiya Mata temple, revered by the Patel community.