http://www.india.com/news/india/jammu-and-kashmir-grenade-attack-on-crpf-patrol-party-in-shopian-2-jawans-4-civilians-injured-1549596/
72
7
Srinagar, October 11: At least two jawan of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and four civilians were injured when the patrolling party of the jawans was injured in a grenade attack on Tuesday in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir. This comes even as the security forces battle three terrorists who had taken refuge in the Jammu and Kashmir Entrepreneurship Development Institute (JKEDI) in Pampore on the outskirts of Srinagar, yesterday. The building is still under siege and the intense encounter between security forces and the militants has entered the second day. The attackers of Tuesday’s attack have not been identified yet.

Militants reportedly hurled the grenade on the patrolling party at around 11.40 AM, a police official told Press Trust of India. The injured have been taken to the Shopian District Hospital and a search operation to hunt down the remaining terrorists has been launched in the surrounding areas. Tuesday’s attack comes amidst an upsurge of such events in the border areas of the state, in the recent times, in the wake of India’s surgical strikes on Pakistani terror outfits located in Pakistan occupied Kashmir. In the past few weeks, infiltration bids and attacks on Indian Army camps have also increased. Last month, as many as 40 infiltration bids were intercepted and stopped by the security forces. ALSO READ: Pampore Encounter: Terrorists hiding in EDI building, fierce gunbattle resumes, terror alert issued

The number of ceasefire violations have also increased in the wake of the surgical strikes which took place during the pre dawn hours of Spetember 29. This comes amidst escalated tensions between India and Pakistan. The central government has increased forces for patrolling and keeping vigil at the International border separating India and Pakistan, as well as along the Line of Control. More details about the attack that took place in Shopian in South Kashmir, are awaited. Watch this space for more updates on this story.