http://m.themalaymailonline.com/malaysia/article/womens-ministry-says-doing-its-best-to-reduce-teen-pregnancies
10
1
Women’s ministry says doing its best to reduce teen pregnancies

Share this article

PETALING JAYA, Oct 16 — The Women, Family and Community Development Ministry insists it is doing its best to reduce the number of pregnant teen mothers.

Its deputy minister, Datuk Azizah Mohd Dun, said children were protected under the Child Act (Amendment) 2016.

“The amended Act sees heavier penalties to punish predators and will serve as a stern warning,” she said.

However, she admitted the ministry must consult other authorities to address calls for the banning of child marriages.

“The government must seek the advice of the shariah court, state and federal authorities before making any decision. We must obtain the consent of the religious authorities,” she said.

Azizah said the ministry had formed a taskforce on child marriages that comprised various stakeholders to tackle the issue.

“The relevant agencies, comprising representatives from religious authorities and the government, are compiling ways to reduce the number of teenage pregnancies,” she said.

She pointed out that there had been a decrease of teen mothers in recent years. In 2013, there were 17,588 teenager mothers, and in 2014, there were 16,528. Last year, the number was 13,831.

Azizah said the ministry had formulated a National Social and Reproductive Health Plan of Action to address the matter in schools.

“The health plan will increase awareness of sexual activities and their consequences among teenagers,” she said.

She said the social and reproductive health education programme, known as Pekerti, was initiated in 2012. It was to educate those between the ages of 12 and 15.

“This programme has been incorporated in their extra-curricular programme. It touches on self-worth of teenagers and how to avoid sexual activities,” she said.

Azizah said the ministry was working closely with the Education Ministry to expand other educational programmes in schools.

Health Ministry deputy director-general Datuk Dr S. Jeyaindran said the ministry could only assist by providing counselling at clinics for pregnant teenagers.

“We would only provide counselling for teenagers who are confused about their pregnancy and are contemplating to abort their foetuses,” he said.

He said the ministry had organised various programmes for teenagers to increase their awareness of sexual activities.