http://www.philstar.com/region/2016/10/04/1630183/33-more-drug-users-complete-rehab
70
7
BACOLOD CITY, Philippines — The second batch of 33 “moderate” drug dependents, who among the 11,000 drug users and pushers surrendered to the police under Oplan Tokhang campaign in Negros Occidental, graduated Saturday from a 7-day Wellness Camp drug rehab program at Camp Major Nelson Gerona at Barangay Minoyan in Murcia town.

This brought to 71 the number of drug dependents who underwent drug rehabilitation program since last month at the military camp, which was being financed by the Negros Occidental provincial government.

Maria Lina Sanogal, action officer of the Provincial Anti-Illegal Drugs Abuse Council, said the “graduates” underwent leadership trainings, spiritual and physical activities, counseling, and skills and entrepreneurial trainings, among others.

Sanogal, who represented Governor Alfredo Marañon Jr. during the graduation rites, also enumerated numerous provincial government projects and programs from which all of them could benefit if they would successfully go back to the mainstream society.

Interior and Local Government Secretary Ismael “Mike” Sueno, who led the launching of MASA MASID program of the DILG also in Saturday here, lauded Gov. Maranon for initiating such laudable program, which has yet to be done by other local government units.

Marañon told Sueno that P5 million had been earmarked for the drug rehabilitation program in Negros Occidental.

Freeman ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch:

Senior Superintendent William Señoron, Negros Occidental Provincial Police Office (NOPPO) director, thanked the Wellness camp participants for surrendering voluntarily, and for their willingness to change. But Señoron warned them the police will not hesitate to arrest them if they return to their old habits.

Colonel Francisco Delfin, 303rd Infantry Brigade commander, said the Wellness camp will help the transformation phase of the lives of drug dependents.

The second batch of Wellness Camp for drug dependents have been observed to be more interactive compared to the initial program, with lectures being lessened. Parents of the Wellness Camp participants also attended the graduation activity. (FREEMAN)