http://www.thenational.scot/world/ethiopia-government-says-egypt-is-backing-terror-group.23380
71
7
Ethiopia: Government says Egypt is backing terror group

If you would prefer unlimited access, please support our journalism with a website subscription. Subscribe today for just £3.99 a month.

Will fin breid, barley-bree an paintit room. Whan MacLean meets wi's friens in Springburn. Aa thae roses an geeans will turn tae blume. An a black laud frae yont Nyanga. Dings the fell gallows o the burghers doun.

Black an white ane-til-ither mairriet. Mak the vile barracks o thair maisters bare. Sae come aa ye at hame wi freedom. Never heed whit the houdies croak for Doom. In yer hous aa the bairns o Aidam.

Tak the road an seek ither loanins. Wi thair ill-ploys tae sport an play. Nae mair will our bonnie callants. Merch tae war whan our braggarts crousely craw. Nor wee weans frae pitheid an clachan. Murn the ships sailin doun the Broomielaw. Broken faimilies in launs we've hairriet. Will curse 'Scotlan the Brave' nae mair, nae mair.

Roch the win i the clear day's dawin. Blaws the clouds heilster-gowdie owre the bay. But thair's mair nor a roch win blawin. Thro the Great Glen o the warl the day. It's a thocht that wad gar our rottans. Aa thae rogues that gang gallus fresh an gay.

ETHIOPIA’S Government has blamed Egypt for supporting outlawed rebels and forcing the declaration of a state of emergency in the country.

ETHIOPIA’S Government has blamed Egypt for supporting outlawed rebels and forcing the declaration of a state of emergency in the country.

A spokesman said there is “ample evidence” that Egypt provided training and financing to the Oromo Liberation Front, labelled a terrorist organisation by Ethiopia. Getachew Reda told journalists in the capital, Addis Ababa: “We know for a fact that the terrorist group OLF is receiving all kinds of support from Egypt.”

Egypt last week denied any support for the Ethiopian rebels.

The state of emergency declared on Sunday will be used to reorganise the security forces to better respond to widespread anti-government protests throughout much of the restive Oromia region. At least 400 people have been killed in anti-government protests in the past year, human rights groups and opposition activists have said. The protesters have been demanding wider freedoms.

On October 2, more than 50 people were killed in a stampede after security forces opened fire on anti-government protesters during a religious festival in Bishoftu, south-east of the capital. Witnesses said that police employed tear gas, rubber bullets and baton charges. Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn blamed rioters’ “pre-planned mayhem” for the deaths and denied that security forces had opened fire.

The incident sparked more violence in Oromia, where hundreds of local and foreign businesses have been attacked over suspected government ties and more people have been killed, according to both the Government and opposition. The state of emergency will not mean a total ban on civilian rights and there will not be a blanket curfew across the country, Getachew said. “This is not an attempt by the military to take over,” he added.

The Government has said the state of emergency may include a curfew in some locations, arrests and search-and-seizures without a court order, restrictions on the right to assembly and a ban on some communications. An internet blackout which has been in place for the past five days was lifted on Monday.

An informal state of emergency has been in place in Ethiopia for some time during which people have been arbitrarily arrested and even killed, Mulatu Gemechu, of the opposition Oromo Federalist Congress party said. “Declaring a state of emergency at this time in Ethiopia is aimed at legitimizing the killings that we have seen in the Oromia region recently,” Mulatu said.

“It won’t solve the public’s problems and will only worsen it. What people are looking for is a radical change. The people now want the setting up of a transitional or caretaker government.”

Ethiopian MPs are expected to convene later Monday after a two-month recess, and a Cabinet reshuffle is expected in the next two to three weeks. No changes are being made to German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s plans to visit Addis Ababa on Tuesday, a spokeswoman said. Merkel is due to meet Prime Minister Desalegn, and she will discuss the current political situation and “of course clearly address human rights,” said spokeswoman Ulrike Demmer.

Demmer added: “She will of course express her conviction that a policy that takes account of the interests of all parts of the population, a democratic state of law, offers the best development opportunities.”