http://www.4-traders.com/CHINA-FORTUNE-LAND-CO-LTD-6498456/news/China-Fortune-Land-to-fund-new-Cairo-megaproject-23196500/
71
7
(ANSAmed) - CAIRO , OCTOBER 11 - Egypt's new capital city is coming closer to being reality after the announcement that Chinese developers will largely fund the megaproject. The China Fortune Land Development Company (CFLD) agreed to provide 20 billion dollars for the currently unnamed city, after a meeting between heads of the firm and Egyptian President Abdel Fattah El Sisi , reported CNN on Tuesday. This follows a previous commitment of USD 15 billion from another Chinese state-owned company, bringing the project close to its USD 45 billion budget requirements for phase I. Plans for the new capital were first announced in March 2015 . Government officials described the development as a solution to crowding, pollution and rising house prices in Cairo . The 700 square kilometer city to be constructed in the desert to the East of Cairo would become the new seat of government, and it is presented as a far grander vision than the current capital. Proposals for the city include housing for five million people, over 1,000 mosques, smart villages, industrial zones, a 5,000-seat conference center, and the world's largest park, reports CNN . An Indian company is reportedly planning a vast medical center and university, while a Saudi firm intends to build a 12.6-hectare mosque and Islamic museum. The first phase of the project will see government ministries and residential blocks rise from the sand. This phase could be complete within five years, with the first residents moving in. Despite the optimism from officials, there are concerns that the project will encounter familiar problems. Egypt has already constructed several satellite towns around Cairo , which have registered low occupancy despite high investment. ''The needs of Cairo should be met by the existing eight new towns around it,'' says David Sims , an urban planner and author based in the Cairo . ''But people call them ghost towns.'' (ANSAmed).

(c) 2016 ANSAmed Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc. (Syndigate.info)., source Middle East & North African Newspapers