http://www.ibtimes.sg/president-duterte-create-many-new-alliances-philippines-3553
10
1
Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte said on Tuesday that his country was seeking to build "many news alliances" and could turn to Russia and China for help, including the country's drug problem.

"By next year, I will have entered into so many new alliances," Duterte told Reuters.

He sternly said that he would not allow the United States, the country's former colonial power to "impose on us anything".

Duterte had to face a lot of criticism from the United States, the European Union parliament and the United Nations over what they say are extrajudicial killings.

Duterte rejected the criticism, calling US President Barack Obama a "son of a whore" and UN Secretary-General Ban Ki Moon a "fool" and vowed to continue his campaign. With these, the possibility of continuing the longtime U.S. ally has reduced.

Duterte had been very keen in rebuilding the ties with China, which shattered under his predecessor Benigno Aquino, who pursue a more aggressive tactics towards dealing with China.

He said that he would "open alliances" with China, as well as Russia, while he again indicated to shift away from the United States which is a long-time ally and a big rival of China for influence in the region.

He also highlighted that it was important it control the activity of drug criminals supplying narcotics to the Philippines.

"If you consider us your friend and want to help us, most of the materials are from China, what does that mean?" he said.

He said Philippines was at the "point of no return" in relations with the US.

In July, an arbitration tribunal at The Hague rejected China's vast territorial claims in the contested waters in a case brought by the Philippines and ruled in favour of the Philippines. The tribunal defined waters around Scarborough as "traditional fishing grounds".

Since then the Philippines and China were having conflicts again. But, Duterte has repeatedly said the conflict was pointless and urged China to accept the ruling.