http://www.nationmultimedia.com/politics/Red-shirts-in-South-taken-in-for-questioning-30292892.html
70
7
They were detained by local |security officers yesterday for |questioning and are likely to be sent to the 11th Military Circle in Bangkok later for further questioning, sources familiar with the matter said.

Meanwhile, former prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra has denied any connection to the explosions and apparent arson attacks in seven southern provinces last Thursday and Friday. Thaksin has also threatened to sue anyone making “false accusations” that he was behind the attacks, according to his spokesman Noppadon Pattama, a politician from the Pheu Thai Party.

“People are sending messages through social media accusing Thaksin Shinawatra of being behind these events,” said Noppadon, who once served as foreign minister in a Thaksin proxy government.

“This is slander and defamation. All the former prime ministers love and worry for the country. None of them would condone such evil acts,” he said.

In order to protect his reputation, Thaksin has assigned his lawyers to file a police complaint this week against those making accusations against him, Noppadon said.

Early yesterday morning, some 30 police and military officers as well as officials from the provincial authority raided the home of Prapas Rojanapitak, a 67-year-old red-shirt leader in Trang, one of the southern provinces hit by the explosions.

He was taken to the local police station for questioning and later driven to a military camp in Nakhon Si Thammarat. Sources said the military is expected to fly him to Bangkok for further interrogation.

Prapas, a former communist insurgent, admitted that he was politically active, but said he had never thought of carrying out any violent acts. He said he had been told he would be taken to meet the Fourth Army Region commander, who is in charge of the South and that he was being detained under Article 44 of the post-coup Interim Charter.

A number of political leaders in Nakhon Si Thammarat and Phatthalung provinces were also “invited” for questioning yesterday in connection with the bomb attacks. Two of them were identified as Wichien Jiamsawat, 67, and Wiroj Yodcharoen, 59.

They will be taken to the 11th Military Circle in Bangkok for “in-depth” interrogation, the sources said, adding, however, that it had not been confirmed if they were involved in the attacks.

At the Royal Thai Police headquarters, deputy national police chief Pol General Sriwara Ransibhramanakul called a meeting of investigators yesterday from units such as the Crime Suppression and Explosive Ordnance Disposal divisions.

Police investigators summoned

Sriwara however refused to disclose details of the meeting, which lasted over an hour, saying only that national police chief Pol General Chakthip Chaijinda would be able to elaborate. Another meeting would be held with investigators this morning, he said.

Police sources said that evidence collected from the crime scenes in the seven southern provinces had been taken to the Office of Forensic Science for examination.

No one has claimed responsibility for the coordinated attacks, though the authorities have ruled out international terrorism, describing the attacks as acts of “local sabotage”.

Deputy police chief Pol General Pongsapat Pongcharoen said: “We are confident this was the work of a network with a mastermind.”

Pongsapat said yesterday that no suspects had been arrested, adding that only witnesses have been questioned. He also maintained that no “scapegoats” would be arrested simply to please the public.

In Surat Thani, Pol Lt-General Thesa Siriwatho, commander of Police Region 8, said yesterday that he was confident there would be “good news” within a day or two in relation to the police investigation. He also reported that to Pongsapat during a videoconferencing meeting yesterday.

Meanwhile, the National Council for Peace and Order (NCPO) yesterday dismissed as groundless a rumour that the explosions could be the work of the military.

“The military will never harm the people. I can vouch for that with my life,” NCPO spokesman Colonel Piyapong Klinphan said.

Two explosive devices were found at the Bang Niang weekend market in Phang Nga’s Takua Pa district yesterday. The market was partially damaged by a fire on Friday, suspected to be an arson attack.

Police bomb disposal experts found that the two improvised bombs, made to be detonated with a mobile phone, had failed to work properly hence they did not explode.