http://hot1045.iheart.com/articles/local-news-119078/new-san-antonioaustin-passenger-rail-proposal-15039430/
70
7
A new proposal is being floated to run a passenger rail line from San Antonio to Austin, News Radio 1200 WOAI reports.



Bexar County Commissioners have gone on record in supporting efforts of the San Antonio and Austin Metropolitan Planning Agencies to look into the possibility of running a commuter rail line right up the middle of an expanded Interstate 35.



"Taking out existing I-35 plans to look at the possibility of doing a combination of managed lanes and rail lanes," Commissioner Kevin Wolff said.



Wolff says a long term plan is already in the works to expand I-35 from Ft. Sam Houston to the Comal-Hays County line, using elevated lanes in some places, and adding 'managed' or 'diamond' lanes. Wolff's proposal would eliminate some of those diamond lanes and replace them with rail.



The Lone Star Rail District recently lost major funding after spending more than 15 years trying unsuccessfully to run passenger rail up the existing Union Pacific lines. But that plan fell apart earlier this year when the UP decided not to continue to participate in the plan. Last month, the Austin MPO voted to yank funding from the LSRD, essentially ending its life.



"I think the majority of folks absolutely believe that some sort of rail service up that corridor would be a good thing to have," Wolff said. "The fact of the matter is that we have spent the last 17 years and $30 million and haven't made any progress or figured out where to go."



Wolff says running rail up the I-35 highway would solve two of the major problems that stumped the LSRD. After the Union Pacific pulled out, the District found it impossible to find any available right of way to build tracks in the densely populated region between San Antonio and Austin. And environmental clearance was becoming difficult, because more trains on lines running through populated areas would mean more rights of way blocked to cars, more noise for residents, and a greater danger of train wrecks in residential areas.



Wolff says the MPO's are in a better position to raise money for the project, because, unlike the LSRD, MPO's are federally chartered, which means they can request and distribute federal government funding, and there is plenty of federal money available for rail projects.



Commissioner Tommy Calvert says more robust transportation between San Antonio and Austin is essential for the rapidly growing San Antonio tech industry.



"These companies are spending a lot of money to transport employees between the two cities," he said. Calvert says as the tech industry in San Antonio grows, many companies have offices in both cities, and a lack of reliable transportation between San Antonio and Austin could dampen the growth of this important field.

Photo: Getty Images