http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/festival-no-6-red-cross-8771758
72
7
A nearby river burst its banks following adverse weather, according to organisers

The Red Cross has been called in to help stranded festival-goers after heavy rain burst the banks of a nearby river and flooded car parks.

Around 160 Festival No. 6 attendees were forced to spend the night at Glaslyn Leisure Centre in Porthmadog, North Wales, last night.

Tesco donated food yesterday evening and this morning to feed beleaguered revellers.

Local residents also offered blankets and food, reports the Daily Post.

Many vehicles are still stuck in closed festival car parks this afternoon following concerns over health and seafety.

Daily Post Tesco donated food yesterday evening and this morning to feed beleaguered revellers

According to organisers of the event, based in Portmeirion, a nearby river burst its banks following adverse weather.

A statement read: "In response the festival is doing everything it can to assist you in exiting the car parking fields.

"The condition of the parking fields varies significantly.

"In some areas it is possible to simply drive out, whilst in other areas you may require assistance.

"We have additional tow vehicles in place, welfare facilities on site and information on how to contact the festival is available below.

Daily Post Cars struggle through water after a nearby river burst its banks

Daily Post Dave Hewett from St Albans said: “It was a great festival ruined by the weather"

"We sincerely apologise for the issues you have been experiencing at park and ride and thank you for your patience and cooperation.

"If you could assist us by following the direction of our staff it will help us to get you home as quickly and safely as possible.”

A member of staff from the Porthmadog Leisure Centre, who didn’t wish to be named, said: “We opened the doors at 10pm, and I’m still here at 11am.

“Around 160 people came in and slept on the floor.

“The Red Cross who were working the festival came here to help.

“Tesco has also been great donating food last night and this morning.

“The mood from the festival goers has been great, there has been no trouble but they are still just stuck and so are still with us.”

Daily Post Local residents offered blankets and food to stranded festival-goers

A Gwynedd Council spokesman said: “Officers from the council have been working with festival organisers, the police and other partners overnight in response to the flooding at the Festival No 6 car parks .

“As part of our response, a rest centre was opened to the public at the Glaslyn Leisure Centre late last night. Council staff and Red Cross volunteers have been providing accommodation and support for around 160 people.”

He added: “The rest centre continues to be open to anyone who needs it and we are continuing to work with the festival organisers and our partners to respond to the situation.

“The Glaslyn Leisure Centre and Porthmadog Library, which is situated within the leisure centre building, will be closed to the public today.”

Daily Post "Organisers are a big fail but the tractor drivers have been great"

Dave Hewett from St Albans said: “It was a great festival ruined by the weather.

"I spent several hours yesterday trying to get out and two hours today.

"There seems to be no organisation and no help from the organisers.”

In agreement, Martin Waller said: “There’s no one in charge in the car park at all and those who are trying to organise everything are not apologetic at all.

"They keep telling us they have no control over the weather, that might be true, but they do have control over the car parking.

"Organisers are a big fail but the tractor drivers have been great.”