http://www.independent.ie/irish-news/defibrillator-was-life-saving-for-camogie-player-who-collapsed-during-county-final-secretary-35117844.html
73
7
THE secretary of a Limerick GAA club, where a young camogie player was airlifted to hospital yesterday, has hailed the defibrillator installed at the club as “life-saving”.

Defibrillator was 'life saving' for camogie player who collapsed during county final - secretary

THE secretary of a Limerick GAA club, where a young camogie player was airlifted to hospital yesterday, has hailed the defibrillator installed at the club as “life-saving”.

THE secretary of a Limerick GAA club, where a young camogie player was airlifted to hospital yesterday, has hailed the defibrillator installed at the club as “life-saving”.

Defibrillator was 'life saving' for camogie player who collapsed during county final - secretary

Frank Reidy told Independent.ie that were it not for the assistance of the two nurses and the presence of a defibrillator, it could have been a “different story.”

Feohanagh-Castlemahon GAA club, where the incident occurred yesterday, previously suffered the tragic loss of one of its players when Gary Buicke (17) died of a heart attack while training back in 2001. Since then, the club have always ensured that there is a defibrillator on the grounds.

“We are very conscious of having a defibrillator because we lost a player a few years ago who died of a heart attack and there wasn’t a defibrillator here at the time, so that is very much in our minds. “Some people maintain that CPR is more important but the defibrillator is a serious piece of equipment that should be in all GAA grounds and communities. I can’t speak highly enough of it. It’s also important that they are maintained properly once installed,” he said.

The junior camogie final between Newcastle West and Tournafulla, which was played on Feohanagh-Castlemahon’s pitch in Coolyroe, was abandoned yesterday when a player went unconscious five minutes into the second half. She was immediately tended to by her fellow players, along with two nurses and a doctor - the defibrillator on hand was also used.

She was then airlifted to University Hospital Limerick where she is said to be recovering well. In a statement on Facebook, Newcastle West’s Camogie Club said:

“Our player is recovering well in hospital - To our precious player & family sending much love xxxx “What a fantastic bunch of people that both Tournafulla Camogie & Newcastle West Camogie are blessed to have.”

Online Editors