http://www.news.com.au/lifestyle/real-life/news-life/italy-earthquake-fireman-leaves-heartbreaking-note-on-eightyearold-victims-coffin-apologising-for-not-saving-her/news-story/9079285b3485cfa432ba54cab1bd6b74
74
7
Tom Towers The Sun

A FIREFIGHTER from the Italian earthquake left a heartbreaking note on the coffin of an eight-year-old girl apologising for not saving her.

Giulia Rinaldo gave her own life by throwing her self on top of her four-year-old sister, Giorgia, when the ceiling of their home collapsed.

However, by the time rescue workers reached the sisters Giulia was already dead.

The fireman, known only as Andrea wrote: “Ciao, little one, I gave a hand trying to pull you out of that prison of rubble.

“Sorry we didn’t make it in time.

“Unfortunately you had stopped breathing, but I want you to know from up there that we did all that we could to pull you out.

“When I get home I will know that there is an angel watching me from heaven.

“Ciao Giulia, even if I never knew you, I love you. Andrea.”

He then signed off the letter with a small hand-drawn heart.

Giulia’s coffin was laid out at a state funeral service in the regional capital, Ascoli Piceno, on Saturday along with 34 others.

At the service, Giovanni d’Ercole mentioned the sisters.

He said: “Life and death came face-to-face and for Giorgia, life won.”

The two little girls were found buried together in what remained of their family’s holiday home in the village of Pescara del Tronto.

The girls’ great-grandmother Angela Cafini said: “Giulia died saving her sister. She lay on top of her.

“That is the only reason she is alive. I am told she has no injuries and that is the only explanation for that.”

Distraught family and friends were seen weeping near wooden coffins before a mass state funeral at which some of the 291 victims were laid to rest.

Among those attending Saturday’s ceremony was prime minister Matteo Renzi and president Sergio Mattarella who had earlier visited the rubble town of Amatrice to thank rescue workers.

It was announced yesterday that all museums in Italy are donating proceeds from admission fees to the victims’ fund.

Culture Minister Dario Franceschini said 293 culturally important sites had either collapsed or been seriously damaged.

He urged Italians to visit museums and archaeological sites “in a concrete sign of solidarity” with quake victims, who would be supported by the money raised.

The 6.2-magnitude quake flattened three medieval towns in central Italy, leaving 291 dead and hundreds other injured.

The Pope announced he would visit the region in the near future.

This story originally appeared on The Sun.