http://leadership.ng/news/548264/sardauna-foundation-donates-n20m-to-borno-idps
73
7
The Late Sir Ahmadu Bello Foundation, popularly known as the Sarduana Foundation, has donated N20 million to internally displaced persons (IDPs) in Borno State through Governor Kashim Shettima yesterday in Maiduguri.

Presenting the donation at the Government House Council Chambers to Governor Shettima, the chairman of the Board of Trustees (BOT ) of the foundation, who is also the former Niger State Governor and former chairman, Northern State Governors Forum, Engr Babangida Aliyu, said the foundation found it very vital to make its contribution in the form of financial support to the IDPs by joining other individuals and organisations both at home and abroad, in supporting the traumatised and displaced people.

He also commended the federal and state governments as well as individuals and organisations that have supported the state government in its efforts towards managing and controlling the IDPs and resettlement camps.

“The task is not a simple one and government alone cannot provide all the needs of the IDPs as well as reconstruction of the communities destroyed.

“I urge individuals and organisations to support the IDPs and state government to overcome the predicament. I commend Aliko Dangote Foundation and Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation for their support to the IDPs and Borno State Government,” Aliyu said.

Responding, Governor Kashim Shettima thanked the Sarduana Foundation leaders for their visit as well as their donation.

He assured them that the donation would be judiciously used for the purpose it is meant for while recalling the virtues of late Sir Ahmadu Bello who left behind a legacy worthy of emulation by the northern leaders.

Governor Shettima further urged the BOT members to ensure that the legacy the late Sarduana of Sokoto left behind is upheld, especially his efforts in uniting the northern region irrespective of tribe, religion or political background.

He said the late Sardauna lived his lifetime fighting for the unity and progress of the north, while appealing to the northern leaders to stand up to the unity and progress of the north.

“I am assuring you that with the efforts of the federal government and Nigerian Military, peace will soon finally return to the state and region and Borno will return to its rightful position of home of peace.

“ I commend President Muhammadu Buhari and Nigerian Military for the sacrifices they have made to return peace in Borno and northeast region,” Shettima said.