http://news2.onlinenigeria.com/news/general/547982-senate-raises-suspicion-over-fg%E2%80%99s-implementation-of-proposed-n500bn-intervention-funds.html
71
7
Home | News | General | Senate raises suspicion over FG’s implementation of proposed N500bn intervention funds

By Henry Umoru, Omeiza Ajayi & Joseph Erunke

ABUJA—THE Senate yesterday, raised suspicion about the Federal Government’s implementation of the proposed N500 billion intervention funds for school feeding programme, particularly as it relates to employment of 500,000 graduate teachers.

The Senate’s position came as All Progressives Congress, APC, commended President Muhammadu Buhari on the commencement of of the programme and inauguration of the Presidential Committee on North-East Initiative.

According to the Senate, the manner the Federal Government is going about with the recruitment of school teachers is worrisome.

Consequently, the Senate said the matter would be properly debated next Tuesday.

The resolution of the Senate was sequel to a motion moved by the Leader of the Senate, Senator Ali Ndume, APC, Borno South, who warned the senators not to treat the issue with levity.

Senator Ndume condemned the Federal Government’s approach to implementation of the social programme, wondering why applicants for the graduate teachers’ programme should register online when many Nigerians had no access to the Internet.

According to him, limiting the recruitment to online registration will prevent many from taking part in the exercise.

Ndume, who noted that every local government area in Nigeria must be carried along in the ongoing recruitment of 500,000 school teachers, said: “We do not have to wait for the period to be over before we act.

‘’We need to act now. They are asking them to apply online. Most of those that should apply are offline and they are asking them to apply online.

“Let them come to the Senate and tell us how much has been released to them so that we will not be shortchanged. We need to be sure so that people will not be shortchanged.”

In his contribution, the Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, who presided at plenary, said the issue would be discussed on the next legislative day.

Meanwhile, All Progressives Congress, APC, has commended President Muhammadu Buhari on the commencement of his social intervention programme as well as the inauguration of the Presidential Committee on North East Initiative.

In a statement, yesterday, in Abuja and signed by the National Chairman, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, the party said the development was in line with its 2015 pre-election promises to ensure the welfare and security of Nigerians, particularly the most vulnerable and poor.

Rate this article 0

CLICK HERE TO READ MORE FROM: General