http://blogs.wsj.com/indiarealtime/2016/10/20/what-trump-said-about-growth-in-india-at-the-u-s-presidential-debate/
71
7
ENLARGE Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump answered a question during the third presidential debate in Las Vegas, Thursday. Photo: John Locher/Associated Press

U.S. Presidential hopeful Donald Trump contrasted the growth of the U.S. economy with that of India’s in Wednesday night’s debate with Hillary Clinton in Las Vegas.

Mr. Trump was asked by the debate host, Fox News anchor Chris Wallace to defend his economic plans, including a pledge to increase growth to 4%.

“India, they’re growing at 8%, China is growing at 7%, and that for them is a catastrophically low number,” he said. “We are growing, our last report came out, and it’s right around the 1% level and I think it’s going down.”

India’s economy grew 7.6% in the financial year that ended March 31. The International Monetary Fund in July trimmed its forecast for growth in the South Asian nation to 7.4% for 2016 and 2017.

While that is not 8%, it’s understandable that Mr. Trump could be jealous. The U.S. economy grew just 1.2% last quarter and growth will stick around 1% rate for the full year, economists say.

Of course, India is starting from a much lower base and its economy still fails to provide millions of people with many of the things Americans take for granted, including reliable power, clean water, modern hospitals and toilets. The country is home to the largest number of people living below the poverty line of $1.90 a day.

China’s economy grew 6.9% in 2015, the slowest in 25 years. Economists have cited growing debt as well as too much housing and factory capacity as factors holding back expansion and have called on the country to shift focus away from growth targets to reduce artificial economic stimulation.

Mr. Trump last weekend spoke at an event in New Jersey to raise funds for Kashmiri pandits – a Hindu community displaced from the troubled region of Jammu and Kashmir – as well as Hindu refugees from Bangladesh.

He told the audience there that India is a “great friend” of the U.S. in the fight against “radical Islamic terrorism.” He promised to strengthen diplomatic and military ties with India.

“If I am elected President, the Indian and Hindu community will have a true friend in the White House, that I can guarantee you,” he said.

For breaking news, features and analysis from India, follow WSJ India on Facebook.