http://dfw.cbslocal.com/2016/10/18/fwpd-officer-shot-in-the-line-of-duty-returns-to-work/
71
7
Follow CBSDFW.COM: Facebook | Twitter

FORT WORTH (CBSDFW.COM) – Seven months after he was shot, Officer Matt Pearce is back on the job today at the Fort Worth Police Department — but not back in uniform.

Officer Pearce returned to work on “light duty status” and is helping with record keeping at the Tactical Medic Unit based at Meacham Airport. Pearce said until he is able to go back to work full-time – his expertise in medical response will serve his fellow officers well.

Pearce is still working to regain his strength after being shot five times, but his return to work is a major milestone in his recovery.

“I think they were just as surprised to see me as I was to see them. It’s a special day,” he said. “I think this is only a small step to where I want to be, because hopefully next March I’ll get to put my [police] uniform back on and it will be just another day on the job.”

It was back in March when Pearce and other officers were trying to arrest Ed McIver Sr. on aggravated assault charges and for jumping bail. McIver Sr. and his then 21-year-old son Ed McIver Jr. first fled by car and then took off on foot into a heavily wooded area, all while firing shots at police.

McIver Sr. was killed by police and after an hours long manhunt, McIver Jr. was captured and arrested.

Caught in the line of fire Officer Pearce was shot several times, including in the cheek, arm, and leg. Pearce has made great strides since that day in March — first healing enough to be moved from the Intensive Care Unit, to being released from the hospital in May, then working through rehab enough to move from a wheelchair to walking on his own.

Over the summer Officer Pearce even went out to personally support several community events. Just last month he and Officer Brandi Kamper, a tactical medical officer who helped save him, sat down with CBS 11 News to talk about the shooting. The two both teach emergency medicine and said training played a role in getting Pearce the right kind of treatment, in time to save his life.

Officer Pearce has been with the Fort Worth Police Department since 2009. He begins transitioning back to work performing desk duties for less than 10 hours a week. Pearce said that getting out of the house and spending time at the office will be good for him. In addition to his new work hours, Pearce still goes to rehab three days a week.

(©2016 CBS Local Media, a division of CBS Radio Inc. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.)