http://www.telegraph.co.uk/obituaries/2016/10/11/elliot-tiber-flamboyant-figure-behind-the-woodstock-festival--ob/
70
7
When Tiber heard of the Wallkill debacle, he invited the organisers to base their operations at his parents’ motel, the decrepit but grandly named El Monaco Motel in Bethel, southwest of Woodstock, adding that, as president of the Bethel Chamber of Commerce (a ridiculous post, he recalled, since “there was no commerce”), he had the power to issue permits for outdoor events. He then found a site for the festival on the dairy farm of his neighbour Max Yasgur, who had been looking for a way of raising money.

Woodstock was a Mecca for free spirits, but Tiber was not one of them. “I was closeted and frustrated and repressed and afraid to be myself,” he recalled in an interview, adding: “I was the only one out of 1 million who didn’t smoke a joint... Well, maybe I did. Everybody was doing it.’’

He was born Eliyahu Teichberg on April 15 1935 in Brooklyn. His father, Jack, was a roofer; his overbearing mother, Sonia, ran a junk shop. His one pleasure as a child was going to the cinema, where he developed an obsession with Judy Garland.

After school he changed his name and moved to Greenwich Village where he set up as an interior designer and frequented gay bars. He was present on June 28 1969 when a riot broke out following a police raid at the Stonewall Inn, a key event in the gay liberation movement.

As Tiber recounted in Palm Trees on the Hudson: A True Story of the Mob, Judy Garland and Interior Decorating (2011), his designing career ended after a fight broke out at a cruise-ship party he had been hired to decorate, leaving him cowering behind an overturned table with his idol Judy Garland. With a hefty bill to pay, he retreated to Bethel, where his parents had bought the El Monaco in 1955.

After Woodstock, Tiber bought a Cadillac Eldorado and headed to Los Angeles, where he tried, but failed, to become a film set designer. Returning to New York, he fell in love with the Belgian theatre director André Ernotte, whom he followed back to Brussels. There he got a job as a television scriptwriter and wrote a novel, Rue Haute (1975) about a woman who loses her husband in the Holocaust, which he and Ernotte turned into a film.

As well as Taking Woodstock, Tiber’s experiences at the festival provided the material for Knock on Woodstock: The Uproarious, Uncensored Story of the Woodstock Festival, the Gay Man Who Made It Happen, and How He Earned His Ticket to Freedom (1994).

André Ernotte died in 1999.

Elliot Tiber, born April 15 1935, died August 3 2016