https://au.news.yahoo.com/thewest/wa/a/33016349/kimberley-mine-s-sea-wall-at-risk-of-collapse/
73
7
The sea wall separating a mothballed iron ore mine on Cockatoo Island from environmentally sensitive waters off north-west WA is at risk of collapse, after the liquidators of Pluton Resources had to turn off the pumps that keep the pit from filling with sea water.

VIDEO Roy Hill iron ore project

It is understood Pluton liquidators Pitcher Partners, which is in talks with potential buyers of the mine, stopped pumping on October 16, after Hong Kong-based General Nice Resources backed away from a commitment to provide funding.

The pumping is believed to cost at least $500,000 a month on the island in the Buccaneer Archipelago off Derby.

Pitcher Partners’ decision means the pit, which mines high-grade ore from the side of Cockatoo Island, is likely to fill with sea water from Yampi Sound by the end of next week.

It is understood the insolvency firm advised the Department of Mines and Petroleum last week the pumps would be turned off, while also warning the sea wall could fail if the pit fully filled with water.

The Department of Mines and Petroleum confirmed this week it had no immediate plans to intervene in the situation.

Environment director of operations Marnie Leybourne said in a statement the DMP was “working with the company, its liquidators and other government departments to ensure all safety, financial and environmental risks are well understood and managed appropriately”.

The Cockatoo Island mine. Picture: John MacFadyen/Pluton Resources

DMP said it was aware potential buyers had been considering offers for the mine, and said it believed mining would eventually resume on Cockatoo Island.

In addition to the environmental risks, the decision could make it far more difficult for Pitcher Partners to find a buyer, given industry sources estimate it could cost up to $10 million to pump out the pit even if the sea wall is not compromised.

However, Pitcher Partners’ Bryan Hughes said the firm was discussing a potential sale with some “very credible parties” who were looking at exploring alternative means of tapping the Cockatoo Island deposit.

The latest development is likely to again put the State Government’s Mining Rehabilitation Fund under scrutiny, given Pluton was one of the first companies to reclaim its environmental bonds when the scheme opened in mid-2013.

The company scooped up $19 million from the bonds, only 18 months before it collapsed for a third time in late 2015 as the iron ore price tumbled.

The mine was put on the market last month after the WA Supreme Court scuttled a proposed deed of company arrangement designed to rescue Pluton.