https://www.yahoo.com/news/unlikely-union-between-trump-supporter-183000508.html
71
7
The organization that advocates at the national level for historically black colleges and universities has a somewhat unlikely new communications director.





Last month, Paris Dennard started in that role at the Thurgood Marshall College Fund, a nonpartisan nonprofit that represents nearly 50 publicly funded HBCUs. The reason Dennard is an unusual candidate for the job is that the 34-year-old Phoenix native is also a Republican strategist and commentator who has publicly defended Donald Trump, a presidential candidate who is polling, at best, in the single digits among likely black voters.





“It’s not popular at times, but it’s really compelling,” the organization’s president, Johnny C. Taylor, Jr., told Politico recently, acknowledging that Dennard’s political views are not always in line with those of the college leaders and students he will now support.





In an occasionally tense but cordial phone interview, Dennard, who previously handled government affairs for the group, said Taylor and a colleague had approached him about the job. “You are a strategic thinker,” he said they told him. And he sees the fact that he is openly aligned with the Republican party as an asset, not an issue.

Recommended: Is the LSAT Rigged Against the Poor?





“I’m acutely aware of my politics and persuasion,” he said, “but I’m also acutely aware that I’m an advocate for HBCUs, and I will use my position to advocate in Republican circles that I know very well.”





“I think my politics has been an addition to, a positive, to TMCF,” he continued. “You have to work on both sides of the aisle, and I do.” Dennard pointed out that most HBCUs, clustered in the South, are in districts represented by Republican lawmakers, whom he’s developed relationships with over the years.





But can he be both an advocate for a nonpartisan cause and a vocal partisan commentator at the same time? Yes, Dennard said. “I am an advocate by the nature of where I work. Johnny [Taylor] makes that very clear,” he expanded, “so I will speak up and talk about HBCUs in the political sphere.”





(In an email after a phone conversation, Dennard disputed the suggestion that he will be a “spokesman” for the group, writing, “No, actually Johnny C. Taylor Jr. serves as our spokesperson as our president and ceo [sic] … I am not the spokesperson, that would be incorrect.”)





Does Dennard’s work become complicated when his roles as a Republican commentator and as a TMCF advocate don’t align, though?





Michael Adams, the interim dean of the School of Public Affairs at Texas Southern University, one of the fund’s member schools, wrote in an email, “This is another example of the beauty of the Right to Free Speech so long as it is not violating any legal workplace policy. As an educator, political scientist, and proponent of tolerance, unless there is a legal violation, I don't support punishing people for political speech. Even President Obama has indicated that we need more tolerance in the academic community, especially on college campuses.”

Recommended: Why Stephen Colbert Isn't Connecting



“It might confuse people as to thinking HBCUs are communicating their support for Donald Trump.”

Dennard’s selection, he continued, “reflects the political diversity of the African American community and demonstrates the philosophical and ideological strands of the Black community that extends back to W.E.B. Dubois, Booker T. Washington, Marcus Garvey, and Malcolm X and Dr. Martin Luther King. Hence, it reflects the mosaic of the Diaspora that constitutes the African American community and the Black experience that does run through the party of Lincoln. Albeit, Donald Trump is no Lincoln or Teddy Roosevelt.”





Still, the possibility of such a conflict concerns people like David DePriest, a 19-year-old sophomore studying politics at the historically black Howard University who has seen some of Dennard’s CNN appearances. “There should be less of an apparent conflict of interest,” he said, worrying that people will confuse Dennard’s dual roles as both a member of the National Diversity Coalition for Trump—charged in part for making the case that Trump is a good choice for black voters—and the director of communications for a large group of HBCUs. “To me, it seems like it might confuse people as to thinking HBCUs are communicating their support for Donald Trump,” DePriest said, adding that opposing Trump is “kind of the unifying factor” among the politically active students he knows on campus.