http://www.timeslive.co.za/sundaytimes/stnews/2016/10/16/Gordhan-fraud-charges-final-straw-as-cabinet-revolt-grows
12
1
The Sunday Times understands that at least eight ministers plan to express their dissatisfaction with the way the Hawks and the NPA have handled Gordhan's case when the cabinet meets on Wednesday.

This weekend, three ministers and one deputy minister - in separate interviews - told the Sunday Times about their concerns, with Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi calling the decision to prosecute Gordhan "a declaration of war".

Gordhan is scheduled to appear before the High Court in Pretoria on November 2 to face a charge of fraud related to his approval of early retirement for Ivan Pillay, a former deputy commissioner of the South African Revenue Service.

Motsoaledi said the charges were a "huge tragedy" and a case of state institutions being abused to fight political battles.

"We want law and order - not institutions used to fight nefarious political battles," Motsoaledi said.

The investigation of Gordhan by the Hawks has drawn a line in the ANC between those who support Zuma and those seeking major changes at the party's national elective conference in December next year.

Zuma's opponents see Gordhan's prosecution as the latest attempt by the president and his supporters to assert their control over the National Treasury. The Presidency has consistently denied that it is engaged in a power struggle with Gordhan's ministry.

But Zuma's critics insist the charges are designed to force Gordhan to quit - in accordance with new ANC policy that says members accused of serious crime should step aside - so that the president can appoint a new finance minister.

With Gordhan out of the way, Zuma's supporters are said to be planning to push through plans to build nuclear power stations, a R1-trillion project experts say is unaffordable.

Motsoaledi said the charges against Gordhan did not make sense considering the damage to the economy.

"You take a case of R1.1-million of six years ago and you use it now under the pretext of upholding the rule of law and then it wipes billions off the economy. Who are you helping? Why are you not going after the corruption that amounts to billions? There is no law and order here," he said.

Public Works Minister Thulas Nxesi said the prosecution would plunge the economy into a crisis like the one in December last year when Zuma replaced former finance minister Nhlanhla Nene with little-known Des van Rooyen.

"What happened when comrade Nene was removed? That might be possible," Nxesi said. "We are fully and squarely behind comrade Pravin. He is a man of integrity."

Deputy Health Minister Joe Phaahla said the case against Gordhan was "a national embarrassment" that left him "dumbfounded".

"I would put my life on this man," Phaahla said. "If such a decision was to be taken [to remove Gordhan as minister] and I'm part of it, I would fight it tooth and nail. If it happens in forums where I have no say, I will go public and say it's wrong.

"So I will use whatever opportunity to fight it ... I will be one of those who will use every avenue available."

He said the fraud charge was laughable as what had happened with Pillay was "routine" practice in the public service.

Phaahla said that he, too, had previously authorised such benefits in the various positions he had occupied during his years in the public service.

"You cannot conclude that these are people who are acting on their own accord. They've got some pressure somewhere to say this man has to go and something [against him] has to be found.

"No matter from what angle you look at it, they are acting under some pressure from somewhere to find some dirt on the minister so that he can be removed."

Motsoaledi said it was vital to oppose those hellbent on the removal of Gordhan because "if they are not fought the ANC is punished as a whole".

"It is individuals, not government. Those individuals should not be allowed to carry on with this. It is a struggle, we have to fight. All patriots of our country must stand up," he said.

Motsoaledi and Phaahla said they would go to court on November 2 to support Gordhan as a matter of principle.

Minister of Tourism Derek Hanekom, who commented in his capacity as chairman of the Ahmed Kathrada Foundation, said there was a political motive behind the charges.

"When a minister is charged with such an absurd charge you have to start wondering but why? What lies behind it?" he said.

"Here we have the biggest fighters of corruption and the outstanding minister of finance is charged with signing a request for early retirement. One stands in disbelief when this is before one. And it is difficult not to conclude that there is a political motive behind it."

The cabinet members' statements were supported by ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu.

"The charges are a smokescreen with the intention of removing him. Those that matter should have intervened to stop this rubbish. As ANC leaders and NEC members, we can't keep quiet because if we do so we will be seen as agreeing to this nonsense. I can't be part of an ANC that is politically persecuting a finance minister who has done so well," he said.

Several struggle veterans, retired judges, and other prominent figures have taken to social media to galvanise support for Gordhan, Pillay and another former SARS executive, Johann v an Loggerenberg.

hunterq@sundaytimes.co.za, mokonet@sundaytimes.co.za, skitis@sundaytimes.co.za