http://martini.heraldscotland.com/business/14732433.Fears_of_future_business_funding_exposed_by_Brexit/
71
7
THE UK leaving the European Union could threaten the creation of new Scottish businesses, with any future government funding being reallocated to “London elites”, according to a leading academic.

A new report by The Chartered Association of Business Schools (CABS) has warned that European Union-backed programmes which have had significant impact on the growth of new businesses are now at risk as funding worth hundreds of millions of euros is withdrawn after Brexit.

Between 2007 and 2013 Scotland received €820m from a total €9.9bn in allocations from the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and the European Social Fund (ESF).

Over this period, projects funded by the ERDF have led to the creation of 17,747 new Scottish businesses, creating 44,311 new jobs.

The concern is that following Brexit, and the subsequent withdrawal of ERDF and ESF funds, it will be areas of the UK outside London and the south east that will suffer most.

Simon Collinson, dean at Birmingham Business School and CABS chairman said: “There’s an aspiration from central government to think more about regions and devolve a little bit from London and pay less attention to the London-based elite, but actually there is an underestimation of the degree to which Europe has been a system of distributing wealth a little bit more evenly.”

Mr Collinson said with increased lobbying for business funding expected after Brexit, there is a danger underdeveloped areas of the UK will miss out.

“This new bun fight over where the funding goes isn’t just about sectors; there’s a geographic element and there’s a fear that the elite will step in once again and justify why it should go to London, so I’m fearful about the re-establishment of an elite against disadvantaged regions,” he said.

Robert MacIntosh, head of Heriot-Watt University’s school of management and languages acknowledged there was pressure on resource at both a Scottish and UK government level but cautioned against taking a short-term monetary view of the impact this will have.

“There is evidence in the CABS report that [EU funding] has created jobs and grown the economy; the short term impact of not fully replacing that money would be ill-advised as it will have a detrimental effect on the competitiveness of the economy of Scotland in a local case and the UK in a wider sense,” he said.

CABS noted that while the UK government has promised to protect funding for projects already going ahead as part of the current funding round, there are no plans in place for how such projects will be funded after the UK exits the EU.

For its part, the Scottish Government announced last week that loans of up to £5m will be available for small and medium-sized enterprises.

The report recommends that to secure the ongoing impact of business school activities, which promote local growth and productivity, the government should commit to fund economic development programmes after Brexit.

CABS, which describes itself as the voice of the UK’s business and management education sector, where 325,000 students study, said business school leaders have offered to work closely with the government to help shape the landscape for regional development infrastructure and funding ahead of Brexit and the need to replace ERDF and ESF funds.