http://leadership.ng/news/552142/fayose-expresses-concern-over-unemployment-recession
71
7
Ekiti State governor, Mr Ayodele Fayose, has urged government at all levels to tackle unemployment challenges staring Nigerian youths in the face.

He said the menace, coupled with the present economic recession rocking the country presently remained a time bomb waiting to detonate soon if not addressed immediately.

The governor, who disclosed that a ‘Youth Summit’ would be convened where the youths and other stakeholders will discuss the future of the state, vowed to prevent job insecurity that could compound the current economic recession.

He spoke in Ikere Ekiti yesterday while interacting with members of tailors’ association , where he gave N10 million revolving loan to members of the union in the state.

The current economic recession according to him, called for concerted efforts of all citizens , saying the best way to arrest the situation was to tackle job insecurity among Nigerian citizens.

He said, “This government will work harder to protect your jobs. We have to keep you going and that is why we are partnering with you with this revolving loan and I appeal to you to make good use of it”, Fayose pleaded.

He said he would be meeting Ekiti indigenes within the age range of 17-20 ages to discuss what the future holds for the state.

“The youths are the future leaders of this country and there is need for them to interact with the leaders of today on what the future holds for them. We must work on their moral values to prepare their minds and emotion ahead of the future”.

The governor who also spoke at the computer training session organized for civil servants at the College of Education, Ikere Ekiti which was concluded on Monday, Fayose promised to establish a world class Computer Institute for the State Civil Service to make civil servants computer compliant.

“The Ekiti State Civil Service is a strong platform for any government to work upon and we have to protect and preserve the platform.

“Computer training and compliance is one of the best ways to increase the productivity of workers and that is why we are exposing you to this training. I want to assure that before the end of my third year in office, the state civil service will have its own computer training institute where staff of grade level 08 upward can have at least one week training annually.

“But as much as we are determined to give you the best, you too must reciprocate by being dedicated to duties. Don’t betray the confidence reposed in you. Don’t use the computers given to you by government to perpetrate fraud or for personal use.

“Productivity is very essential in any government and civil service being the engine room of the government must be productive. We are going to give you the best incentives and create conducive atmosphere for civil servants to thrive and be proud under our government”, Fayose pledged.