http://www.thenational.scot/news/msps-debate-bbc-charter-renewal-and-low-level-of-spend-in-scotland.23104
71
7
MSPs debate BBC charter renewal and low level of spend in Scotland

If you would prefer unlimited access, please support our journalism with a website subscription. Subscribe today for just £3.99 a month.

Will fin breid, barley-bree an paintit room. Whan MacLean meets wi's friens in Springburn. Aa thae roses an geeans will turn tae blume. An a black laud frae yont Nyanga. Dings the fell gallows o the burghers doun.

Black an white ane-til-ither mairriet. Mak the vile barracks o thair maisters bare. Sae come aa ye at hame wi freedom. Never heed whit the houdies croak for Doom. In yer hous aa the bairns o Aidam.

Tak the road an seek ither loanins. Wi thair ill-ploys tae sport an play. Nae mair will our bonnie callants. Merch tae war whan our braggarts crousely craw. Nor wee weans frae pitheid an clachan. Murn the ships sailin doun the Broomielaw. Broken faimilies in launs we've hairriet. Will curse 'Scotlan the Brave' nae mair, nae mair.

Roch the win i the clear day's dawin. Blaws the clouds heilster-gowdie owre the bay. But thair's mair nor a roch win blawin. Thro the Great Glen o the warl the day. It's a thocht that wad gar our rottans. Aa thae rogues that gang gallus fresh an gay.

MSPs are set to debate the renewal of the BBC’s charter amid concern over how much of the licence fee revenue the corporation spends in Scotland, compared to Wales and Northern Ireland.

MSPs are set to debate the renewal of the BBC’s charter amid concern over how much of the licence fee revenue the corporation spends in Scotland, compared to Wales and Northern Ireland.

It comes after Holyrood’s Culture, Tourism, Europe and External Relations Committee heard that only 55 per cent of revenue from the licence fee generated from Scotland was spent here, compared to at least 95 per cent in Wales, 74 per cent in Northern Ireland and more than 100 per cent in England.

Among those who gave evidence to a session of the committee last week was David Smith, from independent production company Matchlight, who said that of the £320.1 million raised from Scotland in 2016, £143.6m will be spent by the BBC elsewhere in the UK. However, he said it was not about what was spent in Wales or Northern Ireland, but what the BBC does not spend in Scotland.

He told the committee that while the BBC charter was a welcome step forward, it was not the end of the journey by any stretch.

“The service agreement that flows from the charter will be crucial to how the BBC operates around the UK for the next 11 years,” he said. “There is some very useful new wording in the charter on public purpose. Article 6 states, ‘in commissioning and delivering output the BBC should invest in the creative economies of each of the nations and contribute to their development’.

“That is a real win and people in the BBC have echoed that they see it as a win, too. It is a step forward, but it is by no means the end of the journey.”

Smith said there was a genuine imbalance in how the licence fee was raised and spent across the UK.

“It is a staggering imbalance, which was not revealed prior to the [BBC] accounts being provided,” he said. “At best, 55 per cent of what is raised in Scotland is spent in Scotland. At least 95 per cent of what is raised in Wales is spent in Wales, and that excludes some spend on S4C, so it is estimated that 105 or 110 per cent of what is raised in Wales is spent in Wales.

“England is a net beneficiary, in that it draws in funding from across the UK. In Northern Ireland, about 75 per cent of the money that is raised is spent in Northern Ireland.”

He added that we had to ask why Scotland was seen as a net contributor.

“It has often been said in committee rooms such as this one that we also get the network services, so we benefit from BBC Radio 4 and everything else that is pan-UK,” said Smith.

“That is absolutely true, but so does Wales, which seems not to be contributing towards those services.

“We must also ask why all those central services are based in London. There is no longer any reason for that to be the case. Any one of the services could be moved to elsewhere in the UK. Glasgow has a fully functioning broadcasting community, as do Belfast and Cardiff.”

BBC Scotland director Ken MacQuarrie – now the corporation’s director of nations and regions, told the committee the figures changed from year to year, but the BBC had tripled its spending in Scotland in the past seven years.

Alan Dickson, BBC Scotland’s chief operating officer, said last year’s equivalent figure for Scotland was 63 per cent, but expenditure had “dipped” because Waterloo Road and other titles had been decommissioned. He expected this year’s level of spend to return to previous levels.

Committee convener Joan McAlpine said: “When the Waterloo Road storyline moved to Greenock, as someone who went to a comprehensive school in Greenock I regarded that as completely absurd although, unlike many people, I did not say anything at the time because we were told that that would provide a springboard or platform for creative talent in Scotland.

“However absurd the plot, a major drama series was relocated from somewhere in the middle of England to Scotland. Clearly, that springboard effect has not happened.

“We were told that the change was about long-term planning and was to help the growth of the sector in Scotland, but the programme has not been recommissioned.”

The committee will discuss the BBC charter at its meeting on Thursday.