http://www.freemalaysiatoday.com/category/nation/2016/09/27/no-money-helpless-say-hostages-families/
73
7
Families of men kidnapped by Abu Sayyaf militants off Sabah waters plead with Government, employers to help save the hostages.

PETALING JAYA: “We don’t have the money nor the means to get them home safely.”

These were words murmured by Rosmiati Abdul Rahim, daughter of Abd Rahim Summas who is among five Malaysian sailors who are being held captive by Abu Sayyaf gunmen.

Rosmiati said she was in tears and shaking from the shock, when she found out that her father had been abducted, Star Online reported.

“I can only pray for his and the others’ freedom. We are helpless. We don’t have the money nor the means to get them home safely,” Rosmiati told the news portal.

Despite being a tough sailor, Rosmiati stated however, that her father had medical problems.

“He may not be able to take such harsh conditions any longer.”

Rahim was one of five Malaysians abducted by Abu Sayyaf in waters off Lahad Datu on July 18. The other hostages are Mohd Ridzuan Ismail, 32, and Rosmiati’s uncle, Tayudin Anjut, 45, her nephew Mohd Zumadil Rahim, 23, and Fandy Bakran, 26.

All the hostages are from Sabah, except Ridzuan, who also happens to be married to Rosmiati’s cousin, Hariyanti Samsih.

Ridzuan yesterday pleaded for the Malaysian government to rescue them, via an Abu Sayyaf spokesman who contacted The Star from Jolo Island.

In the eight-minute conversation, the sailor from Pahang, asked the Malaysian Government and his employer to rescue him and the other hostages, saying that the captives had little food and suffered beatings.

Hariyanti told The Star that Ridzuan had become the designated person to communicate with their families, and that the kidnappers would make contact several times a month.

“The last call I received from my husband was last Monday. He asked me to tell his boss to get help as soon as possible because they are suffering there.

“I can’t do anything. We are poor,” Hariyanti was quoted as saying by Star Online.

The couple have three children – a five-year-old and a three-year-old who were always asking for their father – and a five-month-old.

“I would just say that he is away at work.”

Hasmiah Lahap, the mother of Fandy Bakran, also pleaded for the Government to intervene as they did not have the money to help.

“We just want them back safely as soon as possible. But we don’t have money for the kidnappers. I hope the Government can help us,” she said, according to Star Online.

A day before The Star spoke to Ridzuan, Abu Rami the Abu Sayyaff spokesman, in a phone interview, said the captors wanted 100 million pesos (RM8.5 million) for the release of the hostages, whom he claimed were being kept in Jolo by an Abu Sayyaf leader identified as Abu Khalif.

When contacted, Sabah police commissioner Abdul Rashid Harun declined to discuss the issue of the negotiation that is being done to free the hostages, while Deputy Home Minister Nur Jazlan Mohamed said he would direct the police to intensify communication and negotiations with the kidnappers to obtain the hostages’ freedom.

RELATED STORY: