http://articles.economictimes.indiatimes.com/2016-10-11/news/54786504_1_general-atlantic-to-approach-cdpq-for-stake-sale-in-mu-sigma
71
7
MUMBAI: Mu Sigma founder Dhiraj Rajaram’s preference for longterm investors over IPO-focused private equity funds has pushed General Atlantic to approach the giant Canadian pension fund CDPQ for a possible sale of its 20% stake in the firm.GA’s move comes days after Rajaram purchased ex-wife Ambiga Subramanian’s stake in the company ending months of confusion and uncertainty over ownership.Mu Sigma now prefers long term investors such as pension funds and sovereign wealth funds over private equity funds who normally push for an IPO as a way to exit their investments in five to seven years.People close to the transaction said that no detailed talks have been held with CDPQ yet and only preliminary approach has been made.“Some representatives of Mu Sigma on behalf of GA approached CDPQ. The pension fund has not committed anything. They are studying the proposal and will take some time to take a firm decision on the matter,” said a person close to the Canadian investor.CDPQ declined to comment. GA India head Sandeep Naik did not immediately returned phone calls seeking comments. Mu Sigma spokesperson also did not respond to a mail seeking comments till the time of going to press.GA values its investment at about $200 mln, nearly double of the $108 million it invested when it bought into the company in 2011. General Atlantic, along with former Mu Sigma CEO Ambiga Subramanian had mandated Citigroup and Credit Suisse to run a formal process to find buyers for the shares held by them. However, Subramanian sold shares to the founder and her ex-husband, Dhiraj Rajaram on October 4.However, on October 4, Mark Dzialga of General Atlantic said in a statement that that there has been a lot of needless and inaccurate speculation around investors’ involvement in Mu Sigma. “We are extremely excited about being a partner and shareholder with Dhiraj and his management team and look forward to continuing to help build the company for many years to come,” a Mu Sigma statement quoted him as saying.In August, ET reported that pension funds from North America including Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan (OTPP) and Canada Pension Plan Investment Board (CPPIB) are competing with bulge-bracket private equity funds such as Blackstone, Bain Capital and CVC Capital Partners to buy a minority stake Subramanian and General Atlantic were opting for an exit. While taking over the company CEO post from Subramanian, Rajaram said he would own 51.6 percent of the company.Founded in 2004, Mu Sigma is headquartered in Chicago and has substantial operations in Bengaluru. The company, which counts Microsoft, Walmart and Dell among its clients, has raised close to $200 million through three rounds of private equity investments since 2011. It currently employs 4,000 people. The company counts 150 Fortune 500 companies as its customers.This will be the first time that pension funds such as OTPP and CPPIB are bidding for an IT services firm in India. "Mu Sigma can be a stable and long-term investment for them and will fit into their strategy," one of the sources close to the pension funds told ET CDPQ has been one of the active investors in India in recent times.Earlier last week, it committed $250 million in the asset reconstruction company of Edelweiss Securities, while it is in the final stages of signing an agreement with TVS Logistics to invest another $180 million to acquire shares held by KKR and Goldman Sachs.CDPQ, which opened its India office in March, has made a commitment of $150 million in the country’s renewable sector.Together with sovereign wealth funds State General Reserve Fund of Oman and Kuwait Investment Authority, it teamed up with Tata Power and ICICI Venture last month to create a joint platform to acquire distressed and stranded power assets. The three global investors will together deploy around $650 million of equity to create a dedicated pool of $850 million.