http://www.srilankasource.com/index.php/sid/246920323
71
7
BRICS women MPs meet: TRS' K. Kavita lauds Sumitra Mahajan

Sri Lanka Source (ANI) Sunday 21st August, 2016

Jaipur, Aug. 21 (ANI): Expressing her delight on interaction with the women parliamentarians from BRICS nations, Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) MP K. Kavita today said that it was a beautiful exchange of ideas and showered praise on Lok Sabha Speaker Sumitra Mahajan for coming up with this idea.

"It is an amazing experience to meet your fellow women parliamentarians from various countries and share their experience to understand what they do, what they don't do and we tell them our experiences.It is a beautiful exchange of ideas," said Kavita.

"And just because the men BRICS Summit will happen in October, this is much more important the experience, the dialogues from here can be carried out in the men BRICS Summit as well. So, overall it's a wonderful experience and all the credit goes to honourable Speaker Madam Sumitra Mahajan ji, who had this idea of bringing the women parliamentari

ans together," she added.

The Nizamabad MP also highlighted shortfall in financing from the developed nations.

"It was decided in the Paris agreement that developed nations should fund to the tune of 100 billion US dollars, but then implementing on that commitment is important. And to implement that commitment I believe the BRICS nations should come together and raise their voice," said Kavita.

"The previous agreements were not adhered to by the developed nations. So, that is why we are pushing on the developed nations in this session through the women parliamentarian delegation that these commitments by these nations should be fulfilled," she added.

A total of 42 parliamentarians from BRICS countries, including 28 MPs from Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, are participating in the meeting where sustainable development goals are being discussed.

The women parliamentarians of BRICS nations during their meeting yesterday expressed concern over Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), terrorism, gender equality, funds under New Development Bank (NDB), poverty, social responsibility and more women participation in politics and power. (ANI)