http://www.4-traders.com/BOEING-CO-4816/news/Boeing-Is-Upbeat-on-Sales-Goal-WSJ-23163560/
70
7
By Doug Cameron

Boeing Co. still believes it can reach its target of roughly matching jet deliveries with new orders this year, the aerospace company's chief executive said Tuesday.

A slowdown in sales of widebody jets has left Boeing less than half way to reaching its goal of a book-to-bill ratio of around one for the year, with deliveries in 2016 expected to be between 740 and 745 jets.

"We continue to trend towards a book to bill of about one," CEO Dennis Muilenburg told reporters on the sidelines of a conference in Chicago.

Boeing had booked just 357 new orders as of its last update on Sept. 27, excluding 67 cancellations. That leaves its book-to-bill ratio at around 0.5 compared with orders for 499 jets and a ratio of 0.7 at the same time last year. The ratio last year reached 1.34.

Analysts have grown increasingly skeptical Boeing can reach its goal this year, but Mr. Muilenburg said it wasn't "a pressing business issue" if some orders slipped into the first half of 2017 and left the company short in 2016.

"We think it will be difficult for [Boeing] to reach book to bill of 1-times, primarily due to weak widebody orders," said Buckingham Research analyst Richard Safran in a client note.

Boeing continues to work on a number of sales campaigns, though Mr. Muilenburg said a planned order from Iran Air wouldn't involve any jets being delivered in 2016, and would likely be over the next two to three years.

Boeing and Airbus Group SE recently won approval from the U.S. government to deliver aircraft to Iran.

Slowing global economic growth has crimped sales of widebody planes, though demand remains stronger for smaller jets favored by low-cost carriers.

Boeing needs to secure orders for more than 380 jets by the end of the year to meet its goal, with carriers in the Middle East and China still viewed by analysts as the most likely sources.

Aside from Iran Air's pursuit of more than 80 Boeing planes, Saudia, also known as Saudi Arabian airlines, last month said its board had approved the purchase of 28 more jets from the U.S. company, including 15 of its slow-selling 777-300ERs.

Boeing's defense arm last week received a boost when the U.S. government finally approved the planned sale of jet fighters to Kuwait and Qatar.

State-owned Qatar Airways said it would hold a joint event with Boeing in Washington D.C. on Friday, with the airline close to finalizing a large widebody jet order, according to a person familiar with the situation.

Mr. Muilenburg said last month that he expects sales at the commercial aircraft and defense arms division to be broadly flat next year compared with 2016, though cash flow is forecast to rise as it works through delivering a backlog of more than 5,700 jets.

Separately, Mr. Muilenburg said Tuesday that he wasn't concerned about a delay in selecting a main engine for the new space rocket it's developing through a joint venture with Lockheed Martin Corp.

The United Launch Alliance venture was due by the end of the year to choose between engines being developed by Jeff Bezos's Blue Origin LLC and Aerojet Rocketdyne Holdings Inc.

Blue Origin, a closely held firm launched by the Amazon.com Inc. founder, is the venture's favored choice to power its Vulcan rocket, but has pushed back crucial tests on its engine until the spring.

The Vulcan rocket system is still being funded by Boeing and Lockheed on a quarterly basis, and Mr. Muilenburg said a decision on providing more permanent finance would be made in the next several quarters.

Write to Doug Cameron at doug.cameron@wsj.com