http://gulfnews.com/news/mena/iraq/iraq-warns-turkey-of-regional-war-if-it-doesn-t-withdraw-troops-1.1907280
70
7
Oil fields in the town of Qayyarah are seen burning on Tuesday, Oct. 4, 2016, nearly a month after fleeing Islamic State militants set fire to the oil. Slow-going Iraqi efforts to contain the fires have failed to dampen the smoke and toxic fumes polluting the air in and around Qayyarah.

Baghdad: Turkey and Iraq summoned each other’s ambassadors on Wednesday to protest statements by one country’s prime minister and the other’s parliament.

The developments on Wednesday reflect growing tensions between the two neighbours, both fighting Daesh.

Iraq’s Foreign Ministry summoned Turkeys’ ambassador to Baghdad to condemn allegedly “provocative” comments by Turkish Prime Minister Binali Yildirim about the planned operation to dislodge Daesh militants from the city of Mosul.

Yildrim said the operation could spark sectarian tensions if the Sunni Arab-majority region around Mosul were to be placed under Shiite militia control after the offensive.

In Ankara, meanwhile, Turkey summoned the Iraqi envoy to protest an Iraqi parliament resolution denouncing Turkish troop presence in the region of Bashiqa, northeast of Mosul, where Turkish forces are training anti-Daesh fighters.

Iraqi Prime Minister Haider Al Abadi warned Turkey that keeping troops in northern Iraq could lead to a “regional war,” according to comments broadcast on state TV on Wednesday.

Al Abadi, who spoke at a news conference on Tuesday evening, was reacting to the Turkish parliament’s decision last week to extend a mandate that allows military operations against terrorist organisations in Iraq and Syria for another year.

“We have asked more than once the Turkish side not to intervene in Iraqi matters and I fear that the Turkish adventure could turn into a regional war,” Al Abadi said.

“The Turkish leadership’s behaviour is not acceptable and we don’t want to get into a military confrontation with Turkey.”

Turkey says it deployed troops at a base in northern Iraq late last year as part of an international mission to train and equip Iraqi forces to fight against Daesh which controls vast territory south of the border region, around the city of Mosul, and also in neighbouring Syria.

The Iraqi government says it never invited such a force and considers the Turkish troops as occupiers.

Yildirim described plans for the expected assault on Iraq’s second largest city as “not transparent”. He said that an assault on Mosul might lead to another round of sectarian conflict, saying the demographic make-up of both Syria and Iraq was being dangerously shaken up.

“The Mosul plans of our allies are unfortunately not transparent, they include the risk of sectarian clashes.

“The disturbance of the demographic structure in Syria and Iraq and the alteration of ethnic areas will not bring stability to the region. Handing over Mosul, where Sunni tribes are effective, to Shiite militants would be lighting a fire.”

It is not clear when any US-coordinated offensive on Mosul might begin, but expectations have been building.

At the same time, there has been a push by US-supported groups on the Daesh stronghold of Raqqa in Syria, and on Dabiq, a village in northwestern Syria that is symbolically important to the group.

Turkish Defence Minister Fikri Isik said later on Tuesday that the United States and its allies must think carefully before launching an offensive to retake Mosul, adding that it could trigger an exodus of one million more refugees.

Isik said any refugee flows out of Mosul, a city of more than two million people that has been in the hands of Daesh since 2014, needed to be contained within Iraq’s borders.

“Our allies should weigh up very carefully the migration wave of about one million set to be caused by a possible Mosul operation,” he said in a statement.

“The migration should be absorbed in Iraq’s territory. Otherwise it will impose a large burden on Turkey and that will affect Europe.”

Turkey is already home to more than 2.5 million refugees from the conflict in Syria, where Turkish forces are now engaged in an expanding operation in the north, backing rebel groups in their fight against Daesh.

Turkey is also using the operation to push back the Kurdish YPG militia, which it regards as a terrorist group and does not want encroaching on its territory. The YPG is supported by the United States.