http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3823466/George-W-Bush-tells-people-vote-won-t-say-latest-family-s-anti-Trump-moves.html
70
7
Former President George W. Bush has joined a public service announcement urging people to vote – but it's not at all clear whether he wants them to vote for Republican Donald Trump.

Bush, who has taken pains to stay on the political sidelines since leaving the White House, joined in the voter participation video, which is pegged to the hit musical 'Hamilton.'

'Our future depends upon you casting a ballot,' Bush tells viewers.

What the two-term Republican president doesn't say, and hasn't said publicly, is who he is voting for.

His wife, Laura Bush, appears in the video and urges Americans to 'stay involved in the political life in our country.'

Scroll down for video

Former President George W. Bush told viewers 'our future depends' on them casting a vote

Other Bush family members have gained attention throughout the election season for either backing or appearing to back Hillary Clinton over Donald Trump.

Kathleen Kennedy Townsend, a daughter of Robert F. Kennedy, posted on Facebook this month that George H.W. Bush told her he was voting for Clinton. The president's older son, Jeb, slammed Townsend for putting out the information but didn't deny it.

'The President told me he’s voting for Hillary!!' Townsend posted of the 92 year old family patriarch.

Late last month, Jeb Bush slammed Kennedy Townsend for the breach.

'I thought it was a little inappropriate for a person to overhear a frail, 92-year-old man, in a private setting, at a reception for the Points of Light Foundation, which focuses on volunteerism – to hear this and then immediately go on Facebook and put it on there and then go on national television and then not even show up at the board meeting,' he fumed, without denying the accuracy of the statement.

George W. Bush's daughter, Barbara Bush, attended a fundraiser for Clinton in Paris on Saturday that was hosted by Clinton aide Huma Abedin.

George W. Bush's daughter, Barbara (third from left), attended a Hillary Clinton fundraiser in Paris last weekend, along with longtime Clinton aide Huma Abedin (top)

Attendees posted pictures of Barbara Bush and Abedin at the $5,000-$10,000 a plate event.

Bill Clinton has developed a close relationship with the Bush family since George W. Bush left office. He has jokingly called Clinton his 'brother from another mother.'

The former president hasn't said how he intends to vote. Jeb Bush has said he won't vote for Trump in November. He said in July: 'I can’t vote for Hillary Clinton and I can’t vote for Donald Trump, and it breaks my heart.'

Jeb Bush's son, George P. Bush, the Texas state agriculture commissioner, broke wth the family and endorsed Trump, who attacked his father mercilessly as 'low energy' during the campaign.

'Tonight Show' host Jimmy Fallon also appeals in the video, which was reported by McClatchy.

Former first lady Laura Bush also urges voter participation in the video

Tonight Show host Jimmy Fallon appears in the video, which was posted on the show's YouTube channel

'If you’re inspired by Hamilton, if you’re inspired by our founders, understand that the system of government they designed only works if you participate,' President Obama said

Massachusetts senator Elizabeth Warren also makes an appearance

House Speaker Paul Ryan, who endorsed Trump after previously saying he wasn't 'ready,' also appears in the video

'If you can vote, there's nothing more important than to vote. Lots of people lived and died so that you can do that,' Miranda says in the video.

High-turnout elections often favor Democrats. In this year's presidential election, Donald Trump will perform better if elements of the Barack Obama coalition – young and minority voters – don't show up in the numbers they did in 2008 and 2012.

The increasingly nasty tenor of the campaign has the potential to drive down turnout.

Obama also delivers a line in the video, where he mentions the Broadway smash based on the life of Alexander Hamilton.