http://www.philstar.com/headlines/2016/09/18/1624980/colder-days-ahead-southwest-monsoon-weakens
70
7
MANILA, Philippines - The country may experience colder days ahead as the southwest monsoon that usually brings rains in the western part of the country has started to weaken, the state weather bureau said yesterday.

This developed as Typhoon Gener – which affected the extreme northern part of the country – left the Philippine area of responsibility (PAR) yesterday afternoon.

Weather forecaster Jori Loiz of the Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration (PAGASA) said the weakening southwest monsoon may soon signal the start of the transition to northeast monsoon.

Loiz said the onset of the northeast monsoon, which brings colder air from Siberia, is usually declared in October.

Despite the weakening southwest monsoon, Loiz said parts of the country would still experience isolated rains and thunderstorms due to clouds in the northern and eastern part of the country.

While not expected to be a cyclone, Loiz said they are monitoring the clouds to determine if these would develop into low-pressure areas.

Headlines ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1

Storm warning signal lifted

Meanwhile, Gener was estimated to be at 525 kilometers north of Basco, Batanes or outside PAR as of 1 p.m. yesterday.

The tropical cyclone warning hoisted over Batanes was lifted as the typhoon moved northward at 16 kph.

PAGASA said Gener further intensified as it moved toward Taiwan, packing maximum sustained winds of up to 175 km per hour near the center and gustiness of up to 210 kph.

“Rains with gusty winds are expected over the province of Batanes. Cloudy skies with light to moderate rains and thunderstorms will be experienced over Ilocos region and the provinces of Apayao, Cagayan, Zambales, Bataan, Occidental Mindoro, and Palawan,” PAGASA said.

“Partly cloudy to cloudy skies with isolated rainshowers or thunderstorms will prevail over Metro Manila and the rest of the country,” it added.

DSWD transports relief goods

In a related development, the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) was finally able to transport yesterday a cargo of food and non-food relief items to Batanes province which was battered by Typhoons Ferdie and Gener earlier this week.

The DSWD had prepared since Wednesday the shipment consisting of 20,000 pieces of ready-to-eat brown rice bars, 800 family food packs, 5,000 pieces of malong cloth, 5,000 bottles of water, three units of power generator sets, 40 rolls of rope and 30 rolls laminated sack.

However, the absence of a military C-130 transport aircraft had prevented the airlifting of the relief items for several days.

Social Welfare and Development Secretary Judy Taguiwalo said her department was ready to help the Batanes provincial government in providing relief supplies to affected residents.

Typhoon Ferdie affected 2,710 families or 10,344 persons in 16 barangays in Ilocos Norte (Region I) and the provinces of Batanes and Cagayan in Region II.

As of 6 a.m. yesterday, 20 families or 151 persons are still in three evacuation centers in Basco, Batanes while 2,651 families or 10,063 persons temporarily took shelter with their relatives and friends.

As of yesterday, the DSWD said a total of P625,200 worth of relief assistance has been provided to the affected families. Of the amount, the department provided P620,200 while the local government of Solsona, Ilocos Norte provided P5,000. – With Rainier Allan Ronda