http://www.4-traders.com/news/Companies-Preparing-for-Changes-From-Gas-Emissions-Deal-2nd-Update--23218705/
12
1
By Amy Harder and Russell Gold

An international agreement struck on Saturday in Rwanda would limit the use of greenhouse gases emitted by air conditioners and refrigerators, a move for which some U.S. companies had already been preparing.

Nearly 200 countries, including the U.S., China and India, agreed to the deal, which would require the nations to phase out pollutants called hydrofluorocarbons, or HFCs, starting in 2019, with the goal of an 80% reduction globally by 2047.

A parallel deal was struck last year in Paris to slow the growth of carbon emissions, the most prevalent greenhouse gases emitted by the burning of fossil fuels. That deal entered into force earlier this month.

The HFC agreement struck in Kigali comes in the form of an amendment to the Montreal Protocol, an international treaty undertaken nearly 30 years ago to protect the Earth's ozone layer. Unlike the Paris deal, this weekend's agreement carries legal force.

Sergio Chayet, director of a master's program in supply chain management at Washington University in St. Louis, said many companies had likely prepared for the potential phaseout.

"They've been thinking about this for a long time," he said.

Chemours Co., a publicly traded chemicals company spun off from DuPont Co. last year, said Tuesday that it was introducing a new line of gases to help replace HFCs for certain industrial-scale refrigeration and air-cooling systems.

Johnson Controls Inc., the Milwaukee-based global manufacturing firm, recently introduced two new building-cooling systems that use an alternative to HFCs. In a statement, the company pledged to "continue to expand our chiller portfolio with highly efficient chillers and additional low-[global warming potential] offerings."

Fomo Products, an Ohio manufacturer of spray-on insulation, said last year it intended to use more hydrofluoroolefin, which is considered a less potent greenhouse gas. Fomo Products was acquired by Innovative Chemical Products Group in April.

For consumers, prices for some air conditioners and refrigerators could rise if the switch to alternate chemicals pushes up costs, Mr. Chayet said.

"In the short term, some of these units may be out of reach for some part of the population," he said. "When there's a deal like this, you're introducing a shock into the system."

The deal is the latest installment in the Obama administration's efforts to curb the global greenhouse-gas emissions that scientists say are warming the planet with harmful consequences. Earlier this month, countries also agreed to limit carbon emissions from global aviation for the first time.

"In addition to today's amendment, countries last week crossed the threshold for the Paris Agreement to enter into force and reached a deal to constrain international aviation emissions," Mr. Obama said Saturday. "Together, these steps show that, while diplomacy is never easy, we can work together to leave our children a planet that is safer, more prosperous, more secure and more free than the one that was left for us."

HFCs account for about 1% of global greenhouse-gas emissions and 1.5% of all U.S. greenhouse-gas emissions, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.

But they are considered one of the fastest-growing greenhouses gases in the world. The agency predicts HFC emissions could increase up to 15% a year globally if they aren't limited.

As a greenhouse gas, HFCs are powerful. Their heat-trapping capacity can be hundreds or thousands of times that of carbon dioxide, according to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Plus, some HFCs can stay in the atmosphere for hundreds of years, according to a 2007 report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. As a result, even small amounts can have profound, long-lasting effects on the environment.

HFCs belong to a family of compounds known as fluorinated gases. Such substances don't exist in nature; they are entirely man-made, according to the EPA. After the Montreal Protocol, HFCs were developed to replace another class of fluorinated compounds, known as chlorofluorocarbons, because these were depleting the ozone layer.

Now, the goal is to phase out HFCs and find more environmentally friendly alternatives.

Andrew Tangel and Daniela Hernandez contributed to this article.

Write to Amy Harder at amy.harder@wsj.com and Russell Gold at russell.gold@wsj.com