http://www.4-traders.com/TURNALL-HOLDINGS-LIMITED-10462225/news/Turnall-saga-deepens-FD-under-investigation-The-Zimbabwe-Independent-23213158/
70
7
SACKED Turnall FD Kenias Horonga is under investigation by the Criminal Investigation Department (CID)’s serious fraud division for allegedly fraudulently handpicking and paying Volcano Freight Services (Volcano) MD Sydney Chimberengwa US$116 000 to supply asbestos fibre, which was never delivered, businessdigest has learnt.

By Fidelity Mhlanga

This paper is reliably informed by close sources, including those in the Zimbabwe Republic Police , that the case was reported under crime reference number (CR) 1376/0916 at Harare central police station and under CID docket record (DR) 51/09/16. Both Horonga and Chimberengwa are being investigated with focus on the nature of their relationship and tender procedures.

It is alleged that on April 29 this year, Horonga transferred US$115 845 to Volcano’s CBZ Bank account number 68860931140017 to procure asbestos fibre offshore.

Sources say Horonga made the payment without conducting proper due diligence to assess Volcano’s capacity to deliver.

After Turnall paid Chimberengwa, the Volcano director did not supply the asbestos fibre, insiders revealed.

“After getting the US$115 000, Volcano misrepresented to Turnall that they could source foreign currency and pay on Turnall’s behalf using their offshore accounts. It later emerged Volcano does not have offshore accounts,” a source said.

This happened after Horonga took Chimberengwa on a trip, fully paid for by Turnall , to Russia in February last year as a consultant, raising suspicion of an improper relationship.

To date, Volcano only managed to repay US$5 000 out of the US$115 000.

Efforts to get a comment from Horonga were fruitless as he ignored calls and WhatsApp messages sent to him.

Contacted for comment on Wednesday, Chimberengwa said: “I am not going to comment because of our company policy. I just can’t comment on that one. I can’t comment.”

CID serious fraud’s superintendent Edward Marodza said: “I am not in office. I am at a tribunal. So I don’t know what is happening at the offices these days.”

Horonga and MD Caleb Musodza were last week sacked at Turnall and replaced by Prince Mutatagura and Roseline Chisveto as FD and MD respectively.

The alleged abuse of company resources is believed to have informed Turnall’s decision to part ways with Musodza and Horonga, who were allegedly singled out in an internal audit, which was concluded in July 2016 .

As exclusively reported by this paper last week, Turnall executives, including Musodza and Horonga, were fingered in a fresh case involving the abuse of the company’s funds to the tune of US$410 000.

'