http://canada.onlinenigeria.com/world/132706-zika-outbreak-fda-advises-screening-for-all-blood-centres.html
71
7
Home | World | Zika outbreak: FDA advises screening for all blood centres

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration wants all U.S. blood banks to start screening for Zika virus, a major expansion intended to protect the U.S. blood supply from the mosquito-borne disease.



The new advisory means all U.S. states and territories will need to begin testing blood donations for Zika. Previously, the requirement was limited to areas with active Zika transmission, such as Puerto Rico and two Florida counties.

Blood banks already test donations for HIV, hepatitis, West Nile virus and other blood-borne viruses.

No change to Canadian blood screening

Last month, the FDA told blood centres in Miami and Fort Lauderdale to immediately stop collecting donations until they could begin screening each unit of blood for Zika. The order followed now-confirmed reports of local Zika transmission — the first in the continental U.S.

Canadian Blood Services said it is keeping a close eye on reports of the Zika virus in the U.S.

"At this time, there are no changes to our current restrictions already in place to protect Canada's blood supply against the Zika virus," a spokesman said in an email.

"We've determined the risk of Zika virus entering the Canadian blood system to be extremely low. As we monitor the situation, we are prepared to update our screening criteria should it pose a risk to the Canadian blood supply."

Meanwhile, U.S. health officials are reporting the first case of Zika spread through sex by a man with no symptoms of the disease.

In earlier cases of sexual transmission, the virus was spread by someone who at some point had symptoms.

Zika is mainly spread by mosquitoes, and causes only a mild illness in most people. But infection during pregnancy can lead to severe brain-related birth defects.

Friday's report details the case of a Maryland man who went to the Dominican Republic, where there is a Zika outbreak. He didn't get sick but his sex partner did and recovered.

Doctors believe Zika spread from someone with no symptoms is extremely rare. They said the case is not reason enough to change health advice to couples.

CLICK HERE TO READ MORE FROM: World