http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/legal-recreational-marijuana-vote_us_57fd2b1de4b0e655eab7f600
874
8
Come November, almost one-quarter of the U.S. population could be living in states that have toppled longstanding prohibitions on marijuana.

Five states will vote on measures to legalize and regulate the sale of recreational marijuana on Nov. 8, and with polls indicating that they could pass in all five, the national conversation around cannabis is likely to change drastically.

The burst of ballot initiatives is unprecedented. Four states and the District of Columbia have legalized recreational marijuana since 2012, but together, they only account for about 18 million Americans. If the new wave of states — California, Nevada, Arizona, Maine and Massachusetts — legalizes marijuana next month, the number will surge to 75 million people, according to the most recent Census estimates.

Much of that increase is due to California, the most populous state in the country, with about 40 million residents, and the sixth-largest economy in the world (ahead of both France and Brazil). Because of its size and significance, the state “has the ability to be a change agent in this election,” said John Hudak, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and an expert on marijuana policy.

If California votes to legalize marijuana, it would further normalize the sale and use of recreational marijuana, putting it in line with more mainstream drugs like alcohol and tobacco, said Hudak. The expanded legal market would also put political pressure on Congress to ease banking regulations in the cannabis industry. And it would provide another business model for other prospective states to evaluate, imitate and improve upon before adopting their own.

The federal prohibition of marijuana makes it difficult for weed businesses to set up accounts with banks and credit unions, as most financial institutions are hesitant to offer their services to an industry still routinely targeted by law enforcement. They also can’t get loans or accept credit cards. Customers must pay in cash. Businesses in Colorado, Washington, Oregon and Alaska have faced these challenges in recent years, but with little progress. A “yes” on Proposition 64 in California could finally draw attention to the problem, said Beau Kilmer, co-director of the RAND Drug Policy Research Center.

“I think there’s gonna be a stronger voice for reforms at the federal level, especially with respect to the banking issue,” Kilmer said. “If California legalizes, you’re going to have a lot of its federal representatives and senators … pushing for some of these reforms.”