http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/police-officer-strangled-partner-until-8847464
81
8
Daobry and Sarah Jay arriving at Sarah Jay's employment tribunal against Essex Police in May 2015

A former police firearms officer throttled his wife until she passed out - but he's avoided being jailed because he had the "decency" to call 999.

Pere Daobry set upon Sarah Jay in the bedroom after the pair had been arguing with her declaring she no longer loved him.

The 44-year-old, who worked for the Metropolitan Police for 12 years, launched into a minute-long assault on Mrs Jay, a former Essex Police sergeant, using both hands to choke her until she was unconscious.

He then called police confessing to the 999 call handler: “I want to report an assault and I am the perpetrator.

“I have assaulted my wife.”

Eastnews Press Agency Sarah Jay arriving at her employment tribunal in May 2015

When asked by the operator if his wife needed an ambulance, the dad-of-four responded: “Yeah, I tried to strangle her.”

Daobry - who was married to Mrs Jay, 42, for two years before the Christmas time attack - later denied the assault but was found guilty after a trial.

He claimed to have used a police-approved choke hold to stop Mrs Jay from taking an overdose of prescribed tablets at their home in the pretty Essex village of Thorpe-le-Soken.

But magistrates rejected his evidence “entirely” and found him guilty of assault at the earlier hearing.

The offence was serious enough that he could have been jailed but he was yesterday handed a 12-week suspended prison sentence at Colchester Magistrates’ Court.

Eastnews Press Agency Former police officer Pere Daobry

Alix Mason, chair of the bench, said the sentence was being suspended for a year because Daobry had no previous convictions and had "the decency" to dial 999 to report the crime.

She said: "This was a very unpleasant assault on Mrs Jay and she was clearly terrified.

"There is no credit for an early guilty plea. Having said that, we do take note you have no previous convictions and you had the decency to ring 999.”

The defendant was also ordered to carry out 200 hours of unpaid work and handed a year-long restraining order.

He must also pay a total of £1,665, including £930 in compensation to Mrs Jay and £620 in court costs.

Simon Ralph, mitigating, said the couple’s relationship "started in auspicious circumstances and had got worse from there”.

He blamed an employment tribunal between Mrs Jay and Essex Police for putting strain on the relationship.

At the trial earlier this year, the same court heard how the pair's relationship had soured about six months before the incident with Daobry leaving to live in Australia after he lost his job as a covert firearms officer with the Met Police.

But he arrived back in England in early December and returned to stay in their home.

Mrs Jay told the court: "When he came back, I didn't recognise him as being the same person. I told him I didn't love him and I did not recognise him as the person I married.

"He was getting angry and he got out of bed and went to the end of the room and was getting quite agitated and I remember saying: 'Go to the gym', to distract him.

"He was shouting at me and he came towards me around the bed and I was moving away - I tried to get away.

"He grabbed me and I don't know if I was pushed or I fell, but the next thing I remember I was on my back between the bed and the wall. My feet were in the air and I was being held by my throat.

Eastnews Press Agency Colchester Magistrates Court

"I was struggling to breathe."

When asked by the prosecutor when the attack came to an end, Mrs Jay said: "I don't know.

"The next thing I remember I was waking up. I was lying on my back with my feet in the air."

When she awoke, Daobry was sitting on the bed and told Mrs Jay: "I am phoning the police."

Mrs Jay added: "I couldn't do anything then. He was holding my neck again."

During the attack on December 27 last year, Mrs Jay, who now works as a personal trainer, also suffered scratches on her neck, pain to her neck, scratches on her back, swelling on her forehead and spotting in her eyes.