https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-nation/wp/2016/10/10/record-this-dont-stop-shailene-woodley-live-streams-arrest-at-dakota-access-pipeline-protest/
841
8
Actress Shailene Woodley was arrested in North Dakota on Monday while protesting a planned pipeline that Native Americans say will desecrate sacred land and damage the environment. The incident was live streamed on Facebook. (Reuters)

The actress Shailene Woodley was arrested Monday during a protest of the Dakota Access pipeline, an encounter with law enforcement that was broadcast over social media.

Authorities said at a press conference that more than two dozen people were arrested Monday, including the 24-year-old Woodley.

“I believe all 27 were arrested on the same charges — engaging in a riot and criminal trespass. She was one of 27,” Cass County Sheriff Paul Laney said. “She was no different than the others.”

Morton County Sheriff Department spokesman Rob Keller told the Rapid City Journal that the arrest came shortly after noon on Monday. The Los Angeles Times reported that after her arrest, Woodley was taken to a county jail, which was located about 16 miles from the site of the protest in North Dakota.

“Shailene Woodley has been released from the Morton County Jail in North Dakota,” Woodley’s representative said in a statement Monday night. “She appreciates the outpouring of support, not only for her, but more importantly, for the continued fight against the construction of the Dakota Access Pipeline.”

No more pipelines. Let’s stand together & support Standing Rock with this awesome tee. Go: https://t.co/hfDIQzQAj7 pic.twitter.com/7BqfnIJfDd — Shailene Woodley (@shailenewoodley) September 27, 2016

Footage of the arrest could be seen Monday on Woodley’s Facebook page. She was live-streaming on the social media site when law enforcement took her into custody.

“Record me,” she can be heard saying during the incident, which occurs at the end of the live-stream feed.

“It is recording, isn’t it?” someone responds.

“I’m just going to my car,” Woodley says, presumably to officers on the scene.

Then, after a few seconds, Woodley says: “Record this. Don’t stop.”

Not long after that, Woodley explains that she was stopped as she was trying to return to an RV.

“We can talk right here, I guess, if you want, but right now, you’re going to be placed under arrest for criminal trespass, all right?” says a man who is dressed in sheriff’s office gear.

Woodley asks why she was being arrested, before turning to the camera and saying: “All right. I’m being arrested.”

Woodley then again tries to explain what occurred, before being led away.

“I hope you’re watching, mainstream media,” she says.

The live stream, which lasts about two hours, had more than 2 million views by Monday evening.

A U.S. Judge ruled against a Native American tribe seeking an injunction on a pipeline under construction in North Dakota. The anti-pipeline protest has become a rallying point for Native Americans across the United States. Here's what you need to know. (Daron Taylor/The Washington Post)

The Washington Post’s Joe Heim has previously covered the Dakota Access protest movement, which is focused on a dispute between the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe and a company building a pipeline for crude oil.

In early September, Heim wrote:

At issue for the tribes is the 1,172-mile Dakota Access Pipeline, or DAPL, which runs through North and South Dakota, Iowa and Illinois and has a capacity to transport more than 500,000 barrels of oil a day. The $3.8 billion pipeline now under construction was approved by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to cross under the Missouri River a mile north of the reservation. That river is the source of water for the reservation’s 8,000 residents. Any leak, tribal leaders argue, would cause immediate and irreparable harm. And tribal leaders point to what they consider a double standard, saying that the pipeline was originally going to cross the Missouri north of Bismarck, the state capital, but was rerouted because of powerful opposition that did not want a threat to the water supply there. The tribe says it also is fighting the pipeline’s path because, even though it does not cross the reservation, it traverses sacred territory taken away from the tribe in a series of treaties that have been forced upon it over the past 150 years.

[Previously: Showdown over oil pipeline becomes a national movement for Native Americans]

The arrest of Woodley, who has starred in “The Fault in Our Stars” and “Divergent,” comes not long after the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit rejected a request from the tribe for an injunction to stop construction on the project. The Associated Press reports that with the decision, the federal court “opened the door for construction to resume on a small stretch” of the multi-state pipeline.

“The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe is not backing down from this fight,” Dave Archambault II, chairman of the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe, said in a statement. “We are guided by prayer, and we will continue to fight for our people. We will not rest until our lands, people, waters and sacred places are permanently protected from this destructive pipeline.”

This post has been updated.

Read More:

The war against Columbus Day

More cities celebrating ‘Indigenous Peoples Day’ amid effort to abolish Columbus Day