http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/722614/ISIS-terror-suspect-s-brother-threatens-REVENGE-for-those-who-turned-him-in
10
1
GETTY Jaber al-Bakr committed suicide in a German cell after being arrested on suspicion of terrorism plot

Terror suspect Jaber al-Bakr committed suicide in his cell after he was handed over to the police by three fellow Syrians who he’d met in Leipzig. In an interview with German newspaper Die Welt, the 22-year-old’s brother warned the three men: “My reaction as an Arab is revenge.”

GETTY Jaber al-Bakr is suspected of plotting to bomb a Berlin airport after being radicalised in Germany

When asked to explain what this comment meant, he said: “You understand. I have nothing more to say about it. I will come as a refugee.” Alaa al-Bakr told how his brother had stolen 5 million Syrian pounds (£19,060) from his father before fleeing the country in late 2014. He then arrived in Germany in February 2015, where he was granted refugee status and sent to live in Chemnitz, eastern Germany. In an interview from his family home in Saasaa, near Damascus, he said his brother was radicalised in Germany, and persuaded to return to al-Raqqa, northern Syria, to fight for IS - before arriving back in Germany in December of last year.

GETTY Police found explosives in al-Bakr's Leipzig apartment

However, Alaa claimed that his brother was innocent, saying: “I raised him. I know how he is. He is not a terrorist. “In Germany they tried to brainwash him for a while, it is important to know that it was only for a short time and they didn’t manage it. if they had, he would have flown back to Syria and never come back.” Jaber al-Bakr was arrested last Sunday in Leipzig following a 48 hour manhunt which began when the police found “highly sensitive explosives” during a raid of his apartment.

GETTY A two day manhunt was then sparked before al-Bakr was turned in by three other Syrians

He was then found hanged in his prison cell on Wednesday, although Alaa said he did not believe he had committed suicide, claiming he was “sure it was the police who killed him”. He also said he wants “to sue the police in Germany” for the death - which caused outrage across Germany that the plans for a terror attack he was suspected of plotting against a Berlin airport, thought to be Tegel airport, would never be known. Police gave no indication they believe Jaber al-Bakr had travelled to Syria, although sources close to the investigation told German media he had been to Turkey at least once last Summer.

Thomas Mucke, head of German anti-radicalisation organisation the Violence Prevention Network, said Alaa’s words should be treated with scepticism, as family members often make outlandish claims in similar situations. He said: “His statements are in part self-contradictory, in part absurd - when you consider for example that he is accusing the German authorities of murdering his brother in custody. There is no evidence for any of this. “You often see this with relatives of people who planned or carried out attacks.He is very emotional, he’s threatening the people who captured his brother with revenge, he says the police murdered him - all of this makes you think that at the moment he doesn’t have both feet on the ground."