http://thenationonlineng.net/lagos-pilgrims-return-next-week/
874
8
LAGOS State hajj pilgrims will returned from Saudi Arabia next week, according to official manifest of departure released by its welfare board.

The manifest, which was pasted in the three hotels accommodating the pilgrims in Makkah, showed that the pilgrims from Lagos State will board on 27, 28 and 29 of this month.

Addressing the pilgrims on the plan, the state’s Amirul Hajj and Commissioner for Home Affairs, Dr. Abdulhakeem Abdullateef, explained that two flights would convey pilgrims from Makkah to Lagos on each of the three days.

Abdullateef ordered free distribution of 32-kilogramme bags branded by the government to the pilgrims.

This, The Nation learnt, is to ensure that possible delay of pilgrims is not entertained.

The commissioner urged the pilgrims to abide by the rules and regulations guiding the loading of luggage, stressing that anyone caught violating the approved 32 kilogrammes, his or her load would be rejected.

Abdullateef said: “Now that you have successfully taken part in this year’s Hajj, I congratulate you all and pray that Allah accept all your worship. It is time for us to start preparing for the return trip back to Lagos. All the pilgrims would soon return home in no distance time.”

The Amirul Hajj warned against inclusion of contrabands in their luggage.

“Remember that forbidden items in your luggage attracts serious penalty. Do not include inflammatory objects and Zamzam water in your bags. Anyone found guilty would be dealt with according to the rules and regulations of the concerned authorities,” he said.

According to him, a business network programme that will serve as a platform for the pilgrims to network with one another for business and contacts has been designed.

Abdullateef said the pilgrims would participate in a programme to x-ray the activities of this year’s hajj operations.

He maintained that the programme aimed at giving the pilgrims the opportunity to know some of the areas where the state needed to improve on.