http://www.nytimes.com/2016/09/19/us/politics/obama-trump-clinton.html
84
8
During the Democratic primary race, Mrs. Clinton enjoyed tremendous support from African-American voters, especially older black women, who helped her beat back a challenge from Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

And Mrs. Clinton now holds a gaping advantage of 83 percentage points over the Republican presidential nominee, Donald J. Trump, among black voters, according to a New York Times/CBS News poll released last week.

But many Democrats say Mrs. Clinton’s statistical advantage obscures concerns about turnout and voter apathy.

Younger black voters, in particular, have expressed misgivings about Mrs. Clinton because of some of the policies of her husband’s administration.

These voters specifically point to the 1994 crime bill, which put more police officers on the streets, but also led to tougher sentences for nonviolent drug offenders and the overhaul of welfare, which reduced federal assistance for the poor by nearly $55 billion over six years.

In addition, it is hard for Mrs. Clinton to replicate the deep personal affection and pride that many African-Americans feel for Mr. Obama.

“People say, ‘It doesn’t matter because Hillary Clinton will get 90 percent of the African-American vote,’” said Charlie King, a prominent New York Democrat. “The question is, ‘Ninety percent of what?’ Turnout makes a difference.”

With 50 days until the election, Minyon Moore, a senior adviser to the Clinton campaign, called Mr. Obama’s remarks on Saturday “a true wake-up call” to his coalition of supporters.

In part, the speech reflected the president’s eagerness to use the outsize sway he has with black voters, especially younger people who had not been engaged in politics before his bids for the White House.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But in recent days, advisers to Mr. Obama say, the president has grown exasperated with the tenor of the campaign — including the re-emergence of questions about his birthplace, an issue that he and many of his supporters have long regarded as racist. While his advisers have suggested his most powerful role in the Clinton campaign is as a convert who has come to respect his onetime rival, Mr. Obama is also determined to warn his supporters about the dangers of failing to turn out and essentially ceding the presidency to Mr. Trump.

Mr. Obama’s speech coincided this weekend with massive get-out-the-vote efforts by the Clinton campaign, including the dispatching of 55,000 volunteers to lead more than 2,000 voter-registration events in Pennsylvania, North Carolina and Ohio.

“Are we where we need to be? Probably not,” Ms. Moore said. “Are we going to get to where we need to be? Absolutely.”

The blunt and personal language from Mr. Obama seemed to reverberate. By 9 a.m. Sunday, the Rev. Al Sharpton began taking calls from black listeners to his “Keepin’ It Real” radio program who said they had misgivings about Mrs. Clinton, but could not bear to insult Mr. Obama. “Making not voting synonymous with an insult to the president is a shot in the arm,” Mr. Sharpton said in an interview.

After devoting much of the summer trying to woo white suburban voters turned off by Mr. Trump, the Clinton campaign has refocused its efforts to a big turnout push directed at black and young voters.

In the weeks since Labor Day, Mrs. Clinton has held rallies before largely black crowds in Cleveland, at a historically black college in Charlotte, N.C., and at a college in Greensboro, N.C.

She spoke about her deep ties to black churches while at the National Baptist Convention in Kansas City, Mo.; she called into Tom Joyner’s radio program when she was home sick with pneumonia; and, this past week, she addressed the Black Women’s Agenda Symposium.

Sign Up for the First Draft Newsletter Subscribe for updates on the 2016 presidential race, the White House and Congress, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Sign-up for free NYT Newsletters Morning Briefing News to start your day, weekdays Opinion Today Thought-provoking commentary, weekdays Cooking Delicious recipes and more, 5 times a week Race/Related A provocative exploration of race, biweekly Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The Clinton campaign plans to employ Mr. Obama and the first lady, Michelle Obama, as much as possible in the coming weeks, making particular use of the couple in Florida, Ohio and North Carolina — in areas of those states that Mr. Obama won handily in 2008 and 2012.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

After campaign aides insisted in June that Mr. Obama would not be pigeonholed to reach African-American voters, whose support appeared steady for Mrs. Clinton, the campaign has appeared to acknowledge his help is needed, sending him to cities like Philadelphia and Charlotte, which are home to many black voters.

“There’s some thought that without him on the ticket, the same enthusiasm might not be there for Hillary Clinton,” said Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York. “I think it’s very smart for the president to say it’s not just Hillary Clinton in the future, it’s the wiping out of all the progress we made not just over Obama years, but over the many, many years.”

If schedules permit, the campaign would like to organize another rally featuring Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton side by side. “It’s a little bit of magic when they’re on stage together,” Ms. Moore said.

In a panel discussion this weekend in Washington, Marc H. Morial, the chief executive of the National Urban League, forcefully told a young woman who suggested that some people may not vote because of frustration that “this is not the first generation to be frustrated and not voting is not a viable nor intelligent strategy.”

Mr. King and Mr. Morial are also participating in “Barack Obama Election Day,” a designated day on Nov. 1 during which civil rights leaders will seek to engage African-Americans in battleground states around issues, such as an overhaul of the criminal justice system, which Mr. Obama championed. “It’s all about creating some enthusiasm around this race, if not necessarily around a candidate,” Mr. King added.

Not everyone finds that pitch or Mr. Obama’s remarks compelling, especially given that African-Americans have been such a loyal voting bloc for the Democrats and the Clintons over the years.

“Absolutely hate this framing of the necessity of voting (for Democrats) that places all the blame on marginalized and young folks,” Vann R. Newkirk II, a writer for The Atlantic, said on Twitter. “Black folks have done above and beyond their part already.”