https://au.news.yahoo.com/thewest/wa/a/32633701/juniors-right-to-fret-over-utah-point-twists/
80
8
A bulk iron ore carrier at Utah Point.

ANALYSIS: In seeking to appease the concerns of Utah Point’s smaller-scale exporters worried they will get squeezed out by the majors, the State Government is enshrining the right of WA’s biggest miners to use the Port Hedland bulk- handling facility.

Utah Point’s current exclusive users — Mineral Resources, Atlas Iron and Consolidated Minerals — have two key concerns about legislation to allow the sale of the facility, which was introduced into the Legislative Assembly yesterday.

Their first worry is that a new owner could jack up prices.

Their second concern is that nothing in the legislation would prevent a private owner from locking in long-term take-or-pay contracts with BHP Billiton, Fortescue Metals Group or Roy Hill — and exclude mid-tier miners from the facility over time.

WA Treasurer Mike Nahan has promised a fix for the first worry by changing the bill to include the right to take pricing disputes to arbitration.

On that point he faces criticism for failing to consult with miners over the fine details.

His fix for the second concern issue is where the rubber hits the road, as far as the juniors are concerned.

Dr Nahan’s amendment says that half the access capacity at Utah Point must be reserved for “protected users” — junior miners.

Prescribed users — the majors — can still apply for access to more than half the terminal’s capacity (about 23 million tonnes a year) but only if they agree to hand it back if a junior applies for access.

The kicker appears to be that the protected users can get back only half the total available tonnage if they lose access in the first place. The juniors see that as almost inevitable, given there do not appear to be any legislative limitations on their replacement by a major when their contracts expire.

Dr Nahan said last night the legislation would eventually reflect the bulk of the recommendations made by a Government-dominated Legislative Council committee that criticised the initial legislation for not offering enough protection for junior miners.

Taken with already outlined conditions designed to ensure juniors have first dibs on any capacity that comes available, the amendments offer additional protection for its existing users, Dr Nahan said.

But with the bulk of the detail to be buried in as-yet unseen regulations, he is asking Parliament and Utah Point’s users to take that on faith. With Labor opposed to the sale, its fate rests in the hands of Brendon Grylls’ Nationals WA at a vote in Parliament next week. They are indicating they are satisfied with the amendment and promises.