http://classic.iol.co.za/tonight/music/local-house-dj-jillian-gomes-heeds-fans-call-1.2078511
841
8
Nhlanhla Phillips/ INLSA DJ, Jullian Gomes pose for a picture for The Star newspaper in relation to his Debut Album "LATE DREAMER" in Mandela Square Sandton,Johannesburg.

House music DJ and producer Jullian Gomes may have set alight stages around the world, including in Paris, Dubai, Amsterdam and Japan, but South Africa remains his destination of choice. “South Africa is home, I was born here, I live here and there is just nothing like it,” he said.

“It is just the energy of the crowd of this house-music-loving nation that’s so amazing to see.” he added

And it seems the love affair Gomes has for the country is reciprocated by his fans, who flock to his shows in order to catch a glimpse of him on the decks and buy his music since he broke out in the industry nearly 14 years ago.

Gomes, who has collaborated with many artists, among them Black Coffee and industry stalwart Atjazz, has decided to work on his debut album, Late Dreamer.

Since it was released on September 30, it has been the most streamed album on Deezer, one of the world’s most popular streaming services, and is ranked the number one dance album on Apple’s iTunes.

The Pretoria-born producer, who started experimenting with music since he was about 15, told The Star that he decided to release the album after all these years because that was what his fans wanted.

“I was called out on it on social media and at events. People just wanted to know when I would release my solo album and I thought that now was the perfect time.”

The 27-year-old explained that all kinds of people would be able to relate to his keenly awaited album, which he said has a positive message.

“The title Late Dreamer is about trying to help people fight against self-doubt. It’s for those people living in difficult societal conditions or have stereotypes placed upon them, to break free from that and follow their dreams,” he said.

On the album’s success, Gomes insisted that he didn't follow a particular formula when working; he merely allowed fans to evaluate his music.

“My formula is to put music out for the world to see and hear, and however they receive it is how they receive it. All you can do is be yourself, do what you love and inspire people through music.”

Despite his success, Gomes was adamant that he would remain humble and continue to respect his fans. “I’m forever in debt to people who come and support me. If you use

some of your time to come watch me play music that I want to play for you, that’s the greatest gift anyone can give me.”On his plans for the future? “Health, creativity, more time to perform my purpose and to have a genuine connection with music lovers.”

The Star

Related Stories