http://www.huffingtonpost.co.uk/charlotte-jones/top-10-tips-to-keep-your-_b_12419512.html
80
8
In a family household, clutter builds up inevitably. Clothes need putting away, the dishwasher needs emptying and the kids need telling at least five times every day to hang up their school bags and put their shoes away!

Here are my Top 10 Tips on how to declutter your home and make sure that it stays clutter free.

Top 10 Tips to Keep Your Home Clutter Free:

1. Create a Place for Everything: Make sure that you have a designated home for absolutely every item in your home whether that be elastic bands, chop sticks or nappy sacks. If you ask anyone in your home to 'put something where it belongs', they should be able to do this with ease and your life also becomes a thousand time easier.

2. Reset to zero each night: Spend just a few minutes each night putting everything back where it is supposed to be. That way, you can wake up feeling refreshed the following morning and tackle the days challenges without having to deal with any left over from yesterday.

3. Deal with post as soon as it enters the house: Can it be recycled or shredded straight away? If not, sort mail into one of three categories: To File, To do (e.g call someone or reply) or To Pay (bills etc). Remember to sort through these piles on a regular basis, perhaps once a week or once a month depending on how much post you get.

4. Have dedicated areas which must stay clean, clear and clutter free: For example, the kitchen worktops or entrance hallway, don't allow paperwork or items which belong elsewhere to pile up here. By ensuring that these dedicated areas stay clear, you will notice as soon as any clutter does start to creep in and can rectify the problem immediately.

5. Have a good clear out of the kids toys, games and clothes before a birthday or Christmas: This way, you can get rid of any unused items or things that the children have outgrown ready for the new load to enter the house.

6. Take photos to remind you of sentimental items: Struggling to let go of those items that you know you don't need but have some sort of emotional attachment to? Try taking a photograph of these objects and then letting the real thing go.

7. Buy Less: No recreational shopping (this is a tough one I know). Only go into a shop if you need something. Try it for a month and see if you notice a difference in the amount of things entering your home.

8. Have a donate box at the front door: Anyone in the house can add to this box and then it can be taken to the charity shop each time it gets full.

9. Clear out the fridge and pantry on shopping day: This way, you will be able to get a better idea of what you need to re-stock, putting the shopping away becomes much easier and the groceries will also stay nice and fresh.

10. Have designated charging areas for all electronics: Use this area to plug in and charge your electronics over night and store any cables here too in a drawer, basket or box, whichever works for you. This way, everyone knows where all cables are stored, they can be put away easily and your electronics should always be fully charged.

Thinking of hiring a Professional Organiser? By dedicating just a few days or a week to decluttering with a Professional Organiser, you can resolve a problem that may have been bothering you for months maybe even years! Realise your dream of a clutter free home and spend more time doing the things that you love with the people that you love.

Visit: everythinginitsplace.co.uk for more information and lots of decluttering hints and tips.

Email: charlotte@everythinginitsplace.co.uk or call Charlotte on 07854981844 to start your journey towards clutter freedom.

Follow Charlotte Jones on Twitter: www.twitter.com/charlot30346206

More: Clutter Organization