http://www.dawn.com/news/1289413/ppp-seeks-worlds-help-for-kashmiris
84
8
ISLAMABAD: Former president Asif Ali Zardari on Monday urged the international community to stop the atrocities perpetrated by the Indian authorities on the people of held Kashmir for demanding right to self-determination.

In a statement, he said Kashmir was an unfinished agenda of partition, and the international community had pledged to give the people the right to choose their destiny — a right that cannot be washed away by intimidation and repression.

“A measure of repression in Kashmir is the most inhumane treatment meted out to political prisoners,” the former president said.

Mr Zardari said that the chairman of Jammu Kashmir Liberation Front (JKLF), Mohammad Yasin Malik, had been languishing in prison since Burhan Wani’s death, adding that his health was in a critical condition. “The doctors have described his condition to be critical and urged the authorities to shift him to intensive care — a plea that has fallen on deaf ears,” he said.

“It is the responsibility of the international community to step in and stop repression of the people of Jammu and Kashmir,” he said.

Malik’s wife, Mishal Malik, was invited by Senator Rehman Malik to his residence on Monday. She was accompanied by her daughter, Raziya Sultana, and her mother. They discussed human rights violations taking place in India-held Kashmir and the arrest of Malik by the Indian forces.

“Yasin Malik and his family are fighting peacefully for their right to self-determination as per the United Nations Security Council resolutions, yet he has been kept in illegal custody,” said the senator. The family has been suffering for two years due to his unlawful detention and have also been denied the right to meet him in jail, he added.

Both leaders held a joint press conference and condemned the Indian forces for their brutalities against innocent Kashmiris and urged the United Nations to stop India from committing further brutalities in the region.

Senator Rehman Malik has written to the United Nations Human Rights Commission that “Mohammad Yasin Malik, who is a political activist and heads the political JKLF(Y) group, was taken into custody by Indian military on July 9, 2016, and has remained under interrogation ever since.”

He wrote that Yasin Malik had been shifted to the Humhuma joint interrogation centre in held Kashmir, where he was being tortured in solitary confinement, without access to basic medical care.

Malik is a chronic patient of kidney disease and has a metallic valve in his heart. The rigours of interrogation have led to an alarming loss of 15kg weight and deterioration of his health to dangerous levels, he added.

Senator Malik said that according to information received from held Kashmir, they took him to a hospital, where the army was informed about the serious health condition of Yasin Malik. The doctors recommended his admission to the intensive care unit, but the the Indian army turned down the request and sent him to the interrogation centre.

Published in Dawn October 11th, 2016