http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/nostalgia-romance-red-sandstone-narendra-bhawan-bikaner-altar-ego/1/774371.html
831
8
Rajasthan in the 80s was a land full of exotic tales. On a recent trip to Bikaner, we stumbled upon one such delightful tale that struck a chord. An antique dealer who used to visit Maharaja Narendra Singh of Bikaner discovered that he was a food lover as the king once shared his tiffin with him.

Following that first exchange, there was a regular request for tiffin by the king who was fond of traditional eats. The boxes never went back empty to the antique dealer as the king ensured food, money or some other gift was placed in them. An eccentric man with eclectic tastes, the Maharaja never took his royalty for granted and maintained the humble Rajasthani custom--of always giving something in return for a gift.

Bikaner, one of the most stunning cities of Rajasthan, is also one of its most underrated, despite its 500-year-old history, its world-famous sweets and snacks, the beautiful havelis, forts and temples.

Architectural marvels like the Lallgarh palace, Karni Mata temple, Laxmi Niwas, Kolayat temple, Junagarh Fort and museum, Bhandasar Jain temple, among others, have kept the spirit of the city alive across time. As you step into Bikaner, you are transported to an age that is far removed from contemporary madness. The urban hubbub doesn't distract from the majestic red sandstone structures that stand as a testament to a time when the world was different.

The history, evident in every nook and corner of the city, dates back to 1488 when a young prince, Rao Bika from the Jodhpur dynasty, gave up his legacy and went on to establish his own kingdom. He chose a barren patch of land and called it Jungladesh.

Legend has it that Bika had a difficult relationship with his father and brothers and was allowed to take the family heirlooms with him when he left, in exchange for giving up his claim to the throne of Jodhpur forever. He didn't, however, stay true to his word and a clash between the two Rajput principalities continued till the early 16th century.

Bikaner, an energetic and self-motivated kingdom, still bears proof of this rough evolution. With every passing decade, the city grew under the welfare of rulers like Maharaja Ganga Singh, Maharaja Karni Singh and especially the last Maha-raja Narendra Singh, who presided over the state efficiently from 1988 till 2003, despite being a mere titular head.

REVIVING A LEGACY

The descendants of the founding father Bika--from whose name the city-state Bikaner was derived--are known for being outstanding generals in the Indian army, driven politicians, and competitive sportsmen. Narendra Singh was born in 1948 when India was rising from the ashes of its colonial past.

He was a modern prince who was building his identity as India built its own. Both were young and ready to become something. After attending Mayo College, Ajmer, in 1966 he went to Shri Ram College of Commerce in Delhi. He began travelling incessantly.

On his overseas travels, he watched Broadway shows, Moulin Rouge performances, visited plenty of museums and finally returned to Bikaner where he began to slowly showcase his foreign travels. A recluse by nature, he was an animal lover and owned a staggering 500 cows and 90 dogs, with a name for each. He never used to eat before they were well fed and some say that whenever a calf was born in Bikaner, he used to go visit.

In addition to all his travel memorabilia, he kept all the things he acquired from his father Maharaja Karni Singh, including the gold furniture and chandeliers from France, creating a special place for them at his royal residence.

Narendra Bhawan, which was built in 1969, was acquired in 2005 by hotelier Manvendra Singh Shekhawat and the project started in 2008. Today, it is an independent design hotel rich in history. Over the years, Narendra Bhawan has grown organically, and is today a snapshot of the life led by its original owner who was deeply influenced by the arts and loved travel.

Shekhawat, 32, the managing director of Narendra Bhawan today, personifies the essence of the palace and has a vision that seeks a new kind of acceptance of this beautiful residence, apart from its royal heritage. Through Narendra Bhawan, he says, "I've attempted to provide an insight to the great family's rich legacy and its contribution to India.

The low seating area in the corridors of narendra Bhawan.

Bikaner is the hidden jewel of Rajasthan. It offers unsurpassable antiquity, old world charm and regalia, intricate havelis, grand palaces and great food befitting for any fairy tale nuptial." By 2008, Shekhawat also realised that hotels in the state were no longer as aspirational as they used to be. Millennials were not impressed by crystal chandeliers, thread counts and intrusive hospitality. They sought unique and bespoke experiences.

So they thought, if they just provide guests comfortable accommodation, great local food and attempt at being genial hosts, tell people unheard stories, give them a sense of space and a slice of time, and help them discover unexplored facets of the region, it would help them create a a new market and put them in a monopolistic situation in the area."

"During the design process," he says, "many people who were known very well to Narendra Singh and his daughter Princess Sidhi Kumari were interviewed; many of the letters written by him were studied to develop an understanding of his tastes and habits.

Designer Ayush Kasliwal, who lives in Jaipur, used that research as inspiration while designing this eclectic hotel residence,"says Shekhawat.

THE DESIGN INSPIRATION

The six floors and 82 rooms of this palatial residence have elaborate themes. The Portuguese tiles, traditional crafts, elaborate ceiling details, and Bikaner terrazzo floors offer a calm sanctuary, away from the noise of the city.

You have the Residence Rooms, which are a tribute to the maharaja's eclectic tastes and were designed for his guests. Featuring luxe velvets, English prints, ornate mirrors and mosaic, the Prince Rooms are stately.

Similarly, the Regimental Rooms reflect a ceremonial order with army memorabilia sensitively interspersed with modern conveniences. These rooms are thoughtfully curated with objets d'art and have a rich colour palette.

The India Rooms are quintessentially Indian but fashioned for the cosmopolitan traveller seeking a mix of traditional accents and modern conveniences. And finally, the Republic Suites are chic, edgy, and a tribute to the architects of Independent India.

The galleries, courtyards, illuminated fabrics and architecture paint a royal wedding picture in all its glory. With its distinctive terrain, folklore, hospitality and vibe, Narendra Bhawan sets a unique backdrop for fairy tale weddings. The Gaushala at the entrance is a tribute to Lord Krishna.

Entrance of Narendra bhawan.

The Rathi cows, a dual purpose cattle breed that originated in Bikaner were Narendra Singh's favourites. The easy lounging area, the Verandah, is strongly influenced by the Bombay Art Deco movement; motifs and design elements present an interior that is reminiscent of a vibrant age.

Modern Indian furniture and tribal artworks add a touch of finesse to the décor. A corner houses an electric red baby grand piano, Edith, once favoured by Narendra Singh. The dining space is fragmented into many worlds.

The Mad Hatter, the bake house is a quirky space with puddings, pies, toffees, rum balls and fudges of all sorts. P&C or the Pearls and Chiffons dining room, on the other hand, is for the ladies of the house, inspired by Rajasthani royalty. It features a curated wine list, table-side preparations and tiffin lunches.

The drawing rooms take you back to the gold and the crystal rooms, which are inspired by the mandatory smoking rooms for gentlemen and withdrawing rooms for ladies in the 50s. The central courtyard, the Diwali Chowk, is the heart of Narendra Bhawan, with canopies, low India style seating and trees; ideal to enjoy the Bikaner Badakhana and savour Marwari cuisine.

Karan Singh, president of the heritage property group that includes Narendra Bhawan and Laxmi Niwas in Bikaner and Suryagarh in Jaisalmer says, "the aim was to create a residence as a tribute to its last incumbent. There is a sense of eclecticism and distinctiveness to this property."

The palace of stories and royal snippets is all set to write a new chapter in the history of Bikaner for travellers, tourists and art lovers alike. The city rises from the desert to offer a glamorous escape, bringing romance back in the lives of those who head here in search of that magic moment where the worlds of history and real life collide. It's a world where khidmat goes beyond service; where ladies and gentlemen, as Cesar Ritz said, serve ladies and gentlemen.