http://www.philstar.com/headlines/2016/08/19/1615105/3-more-ndf-consultants-freed-oslo-peace-talks
83
8
MANILA, Philippines - Three more political leaders of the communist group have been released from detention in time for the resumption of peace talks between the government and the National Democratic Front (NDF) in Oslo, Norway next week.

Ariel Arbitrario, Eddie Genelsa and Alfredo Mapano posted bail for their provisional release on Wednesday afternoon. They said their temporary freedom shows the administration of President Duterte is committed to pursue lasting peace with the leftist group.

Arbitrario and Genelsa were detained at a jail facility in Compostela Valley and Mapano in Misamis Oriental, respectively.

They expressed hope that a fellow political detainee, Porferio Tuna Jr., would be released so he could also join the Oslo peace negotiations.

Tuna is detained at the Davao del Norte provincial jail. His release was stalled reportedly because of the other cases he has been facing in Compostela Valley and Davao City as well as in Davao del Norte.

Genelsa and Arbitrario called on the government to respect the previously signed peace agreement and free all political prisoners.

Headlines ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1

Mapano, who posted P100,000 bail, spent a few hours with his family before flying to Manila yesterday afternoon to wait for his flight to Norway.

The NDF leader, who was arrested in 2009, is facing several counts of murder, frustrated murder and robbery in Cagayan de Oro and Malaybalay City.

He said he would join the NDF’s reciprocal committee, which focuses on political and constitutional reforms and on the cessation of hostilities.

Mapano did not give details on the work that he would be assigned. He said he is willing to cooperate with other peace panelists from the government and the NDF.

Militants welcomed the release of the political prisoners.

Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan) secretary-general Renato Reyes said in terms of number and significance, the release is historic as far as the peace talks are concerned.

“It also shows goodwill on the part of the Duterte administration,” Reyes said, adding the President is willing to do more for the peace talks compared to his predecessors – former presidents Benigno Aquino III and Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo.

“The release marked one of the most positive developments in the talks during the last 15 years.”

Reyes said the grant of provisional liberty to political prisoners raises hopes for a smooth resumption of peace talks and forging of new agreements beneficial to the people.

Fernando Hicap, chairman of the Pambansang Lakas ng Kilusang Mamamalakaya ng Pilipinas, said the release of the peace consultants is a good start toward a just and lasting peace in the country.

The other NDF consultants that have been released for the peace talks were Alan Jazmines, Ernesto Lorenzo, Jaime Soledad, Kennedy Bangibang, Maria Concha Araneta, Renante Gamara, Ruben Saluta and Tirso Alcantara.

In a statement, Communist Party of the Philippines (CPP) founder Jose Maria Sison said he was grateful to the Duterte administration for allowing the peace talks to continue.

Sison said he and the President remain good friends, and that the friendship is based on previous cooperation and a common desire to serve the national and democratic rights and best interest of the Filipino people. – With Rhodina Villanueva