http://www.4-traders.com/news/Barack-Obama-Praises-Global-Accord-to-Limit-HFC-Greenhouse-Gases-Update--23218636/
10
1
By Amy Harder

WASHINGTON -- President Barack Obama praised an international deal struck on Saturday in Rwanda to limit the use of greenhouse gases emitted by air conditioners and refrigerators.

Nearly 200 countries, including the U.S., China and India, agreed to the deal that would require them to phase out pollutants called hydrofluorocarbons starting in 2019, with the goal of an 80% reduction in HFCs globally by 2047.

The deal is the latest installment in the Obama administration's efforts to curb the global greenhouse-gas emissions that scientists say are warming the planet with harmful consequences.

A parallel deal was struck last year in Paris to slow the growth of carbon emissions, the most prevalent greenhouse gases emitted by the burning of fossil fuels. That deal entered into force earlier this month.

The HFC agreement struck in Kigali, Rwanda, comes in the form of an amendment to the Montreal Protocol, an international treaty undertaken nearly 30 years ago to protect the Earth's ozone layer. Unlike the Paris deal, which doesn't include a legal requirement to cut carbon emissions, this weekend's agreement carries legal force.

Earlier this month, countries also agreed to limit carbon emissions from global aviation for the first time.

"In addition to today's amendment, countries last week crossed the threshold for the Paris Agreement to enter into force and reached a deal to constrain international aviation emissions," Mr. Obama said Saturday. "Together, these steps show that, while diplomacy is never easy, we can work together to leave our children a planet that is safer, more prosperous, more secure and more free than the one that was left for us."

U.S. manufacturers have already begun transitioning away from HFCs.

Johnson Controls Inc., the Milwaukee-based global manufacturing firm, recently introduced two new building-cooling systems that use an alternative to HFCs. In a statement, the company pledged to "continue to expand our chiller portfolio with highly efficient chillers and additional low-[global warming potential] offerings."

Fomo Products, an Ohio manufacturer of spray-on insulation, said last year it intended to use more hydrofluoroolefin, which is considered a less potent greenhouse gas.

HFCs are considered among the most powerful and fastest-growing pollutants in the world, but they make up a small portion of global greenhouse gas emissions. They account for about 1% of such emissions world-wide and 1.5% of all U.S. greenhouse gas emissions, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.

The agency predicts HFC emissions could increase as much as 15% a year globally if they aren't limited. Air conditioner and refrigerator sales have soared in emerging economies like China and India as their middle classes grow.

Russell Gold contributed to this article.

Write to Amy Harder at amy.harder@wsj.com