http://www.news.com.au/national/nsw-act/gay-marriage-plebiscite-destroyed-in-seconds-by-labor/news-story/fe44c8fd5cd62848027087ab695fb979
874
8
Video

Image A plebiscite is a dangerous thing to do for the mental health in the LGBT community 2:31 Bill Shorten asked PM Malcolm Turnbull what his response is to the advice that a plebiscite is a dangerous thing for the mental health in the LGBT community

Daniel Meers The Daily Telegraph

BILL Shorten destroyed the public’s chance to decide if same-sex marriage should be legalised after a Labor caucus debate that lasted just seconds.

Despite Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull taking a plebiscite as a core policy to the election, Labor yesterday voted to block the legislation with nobody in the party speaking against the motion.

The Opposition’s stance will almost certainly kill off any chance of same-sex marriage until the next parliament in 2019, with Mr Turnbull facing a revolt from Liberal Party conservatives and the Nationals if he attempts to implement a free vote in parliament.

Shadow Attorney-General Mark Dreyfus and Labor same-sex marriage spokeswoman Terri Butler recommended to caucus, with approval from shadow cabinet, the bill be blocked and that was carried without any discussion.

Senior government figures yesterday suggested Labor decided to block the bill — which would have almost certainly led to gay marriage being legalised in a February 11 plebiscite — to cause political pain for Mr Turnbull, a staunch same-sex marriage supporter.

The Prime Minister yesterday vowed he would still put the doomed legislation to both houses of parliament — forcing Labor and the Greens to vote against the path to same-sex marriage.

Mr Shorten, who has voted for gay marriage and argued for a plebiscite in the past, turned the blowtorch on the government to allow a parliamentary vote.

“The easiest way is the way which this parliament has done for a hundred years. Legislate, debate it,’’ he said.

“That is the quickest, cheapest, least harmful and most certain path.”

Mr Turnbull accused the Opposition Leader of trying to milk “every ounce of political gain” out of the debate at the expense of people.

“I’m not going to follow Bill Shorten down his highly political path, in trying to subvert a straightforward democratic process,’’ he said.

“We took the plebiscite proposal as part of our platform to the election.”

Attorney-General George Brandis said the decision could push the issue “years” down the track and Labor had put a “stake through the heart of marriage equality”. Mr Shorten insisted Labor’s decision was because a plebiscite debate would be too damaging.