https://www.sott.net/article/330741-Mainstream-media-handling-of-Trump-sex-comments-exposes-systemic-bias-and-self-censorship-in-Killarys-favor
80
8
Caught on tape making shockingly crude comments about a married woman he tried to seduce, Donald Trump reeled under widespread condemnation Friday ... Donald Trump declared in a midnight video, "I was wrong and I apologize." Yet even as he did so, he claimed the astonishing recording was "nothing more than a distraction" and argued his words were not nearly as egregious as former President Bill Clinton's marital affairs. - ABC

On Friday afternoon, The Washington Post and NBC News released a 2005 video on which Trump describes trying to have sex with a married woman. He also brags about women letting him kiss and grab them because he is famous. "When you're a star they let you do it," Trump says. "You can do anything." He adds seconds later, "Grab them by the p—-. You can do anything."



Within hours, the shock of the video led to widespread condemnation from inside Trump's own party. House Speaker Paul Ryan said he was sickened by Trump's comments, while a one-sentence response from GOP's chairman was devastating. "No woman should ever be described in these terms or talked about in this manner. Ever," said Reince Priebus, who had stood by Trump through his past provocative comments.



Ryan added tartly that Trump was "no longer attending" a joint campaign appearance set for Saturday in Wisconsin. Trump himself later said in a statement that he would be preparing for Sunday night's debate instead. Other Republicans, painfully aware of Trump's possible impact on their own political fates, were quick to chime in.



New Hampshire Sen. Kelly Ayotte, who is locked in a close race, called his comments "totally inappropriate and offensive." Republican Illinois Senator Mark Kirk, facing a tight reelection campaign against Democrat and U.S. Rep. Tammy Duckworth, condemned the remarks on Twitter. He also called for Trump to drop out of the race.

Conclusion:

On the Internet, a great deal of testimony exists regarding Bill Clinton's cocaine dealing in Arkansas and his serial rapes attested to by numerous women, but sexual banter by Donald Trump that occurred in a private conversation more than a decade ago is front page news - and Trump is supposed to resign because of it.Republican politicians are making the request, as we learn from this ABC article, and other mainstream media coverage as well.One can imagine that many in politics are intimidated by the Clintons, but that doesn't explain the attacks on Trump. True, he made statements in terrible taste about sexual issues and women in general, but these are, nonetheless, words, not actions.More:Ironically, there are rumors about Chelsea's paternity as well.But larger, sustained reports featuring drug-dealing and sexual abuse in Arkansas during Clinton's governorship have long haunted Bill Clinton. Hillary Clinton has been drawn into the reports as someone who defended her husband and tried to intimidate the women that her husband reportedly attacked.These reports are well knownIn evaluating reporting, one should recall that mainstream media publication Newsweek made a determination not to report on Monica Lewinsky, and her story was finally published at the alternative news site, Drudge.com.As we've pointed out in the past, the polarization of this current presidential campaign means that over 50 percent or more of "conservative" American voters are increasingly aware of purposeful mis-reporting in the mainstream media. That's probably up to 75 million who are noticing the clear bias when it comes to reporting on this political campaign.Again, this is a long-term bias, but it has never been so clearly presented as now. It constitutes a virtual implosion of mainstream media credibility, one unfortunately abetted by GOP participation.The libertarian campaign of former congressman Ron Paul first exposed GOP hypocrisy and manipulation when it came political issues. Ron Paul was in many ways an ideal Republican candidate if one accepted GOP rhetoric about the primacy of the market and the benefits of private enterprise.But Ron Paul was virtually driven from the presidential race, his followers attacked and his prospects dimmed by underhanded voting tactics that finally crowned the uninspiring Mitt Romney as the GOP nominee of choice.Now, again, the same sort of pattern reoccurs, only this time on a much bigger stage.The result is a nation-state with tens of millions who believe little or nothing about politics or the news (except perhaps what can be viewed on certain 'Net websites).Equally disturbing,It is very clear that powerful forces want global governance to substitute for the influence of nation states as soon as possible. Throughout the West, cultures are under attack. Since the US has little in the way of tribal culture (absent the AmerIndians), the best way to degrade the American state is to destroy the credibility of its institutions.In fact, it's hard to believe that those who make up the behind-the-scenes American leadership were unaware of Hillary's health issues and ensured her candidacy nonetheless. This is only feasible if there was an intention to degrade the viability of the political process itself.Day-by-day, week-by-week, month-by-month, millions of Americans watch the political and media process unfolding around them with growing astonishment. The nation itself likely will not recover from this spectacle,to in our view. No matter who wins the election, underlying elite goals have likely been accomplished.Interestingly, as we were approaching deadline, we noticed an article in the American Thinker, entitled "Trump's dirty talk versus Hillary's corruption." This report made some of the points we've made above. In fact, the writer observes, "I have never seen a media so in the tank. The media show every day their bias by what they report, how they report, and especially what they choose not to report. Our freedoms are in danger."This is a true and acute observation. We'd only re-emphasize that. Many currents are swirling beneath the surface that make this presidential campaign an epochal one.TDB focuses on the dominant social themes of the power elite, the propaganda they disseminate through the mainstream media to expand global governance.