https://www.newsday.co.zw/2016/09/10/public-violence-suspects-granted-100-bail/
80
8
Four of the several MDC-T activists, who were arrested in Harare on charges of public violence following demonstrations that rocked the City were yesterday released on $100 bail each by High Court judge Justice Joseph Musakwa.

BY CHARLES LAITON

Kerina Gweshe (62), Arthur Chiguvari (35), Loveness Mahlepu (42) and Tonderai Chakaredza (44), were arrested on August 24 on allegations they had participated in demonstrations in the central business district, while acting in common purpose with others .

The four, however, had their freedom restored following a successful application by their lawyer, Marufu Mandevere.

State prosecutor, Masimba Manhamo had opposed the granting of bail, arguing they were facing a very serious offence and there were witnesses, who had seen them committing the offence.

However, Mandevere said his clients were good candidates for bail, as the State was basing its argument on mere suspicion that the four participated in the demonstrations.

“It is important to note that all the accused persons were arrested at their respective places of residence and not close to the scene of crime.

“Surely, the State needs more or at least something to link the accused persons to the offence other than a mere statement by the prosecutor from the bar that they were eye witnesses who saw the accused persons. The witnesses were never declared. Nobody knows whether the so called witnesses are not fictitious and imagined by the State,” he said.

In his opposition Manhamo submitted that the magistrate, who denied the suspects bail, had not misdirected himself, but considered the gravity of the offence and the likely sentence the suspects would receive in the event of a conviction.

However, Justice Musakwa said the magistrate misdirected himself because there was no link between the suspects and the offence committed. The judge asked the State if the police officers were at various places, identifying each suspects, as the violence was allegedly taking place.

“If appellants raised alibis, police ought to have carried out thorough investigations in order to disprove them. The first appellant (Gweshe) said she was at home attending to her sick husband and the second and third (Chiguvare and Mahlepu) said they were at work at the City of Harare and police ought to have verified that information, but they did not,” he said, granting the suspects bail.

The State alleges the suspects teamed up at Harvest House along Nelson Mandela Avenue and held a public meeting where they conspired to go to the CBD and cause sporadic violence, setting ablaze State-owned properties, which included a Zimbabwe Republic Police Ford Ranger and a Mazda BT50 belonging to the Zimbabwe Broadcasting Corporation.

Meanwhile, another application for bail filed by Tajamuka/Sesijikile spokesperson, Promise Mkwananzi, who was arrested on charges of public violence, was postponed to next Tuesday to allow the transcription of the court record.