http://www.politico.com/states/florida/story/2016/10/is-attack-on-state-solar-energy-buyback-rule-behind-solar-amendment-1-106456
14
1
Solar panels over the parking area of the Wakulla Environmental Institute. | Bruce Ritchie/POLITICO Florida Debate over Amendment 1 and its effect on Florida solar reaches new intensity

CRAWFORDVILLE — At the Wakulla Environmental Institute, its executive director likes to describe how solar photovoltaic panels are expected to eliminate the institute's electricity bill in January.

The 217 panels and steel frame structure cost $217,000, with the U. S. Department of Commerce paying half and Tallahassee Community College paying the other half.

Story Continued Below

"We get credit for it and all this stuff (electricity) goes back into the grid," said Bob Ballard, executive director of the institute, which is part of Tallahassee Community College. "We are powering a lot of the houses around us during the daytime."

The panels and system were expected to pay for themselves within 15 to 20 years under a state rule that solar energy supporters say now is under attack.

The state "net metering" rule was expanded in 2008 to require larger homeowners and businesses that produce renewable energy to be paid or credited by utilities for the energy they produce.

But now solar energy advocates, along with former Vice President Al Gore, are concerned that a proposed constitutional amendment backed by utilities would undo the rule.

Wakulla Environmental Institute executive director Bob Ballard shows the electric meter rolling backwards because of the solar energy produced. | Bruce Ritchie/POLITICO Florida

Supporters say that proposal isn't in the amendment and isn't their intent. Wakulla Environmental Institute isn't taking a position on the measure, Ballard said.

Amendment 1 on the Nov. 8 ballot would place a right in the constitution to own solar and prohibit customers who don't have solar from subsidizing those who do have them. Utilities have contributed nearly $16.5 million towards the political committee sponsoring the amendment.

Earlier this year, the Florida Supreme Court, by a 4-3 vote, disagreed with environmentalists who argued that the ballot measure was misleading.

But Justice Barbara Pariente in a dissent wrote that the measure, while made to appear as a pro-solar initiative, "is the proverbial 'wolf in sheep's clothing'" and that solar supporters should beware.

Pariente argued that such a right already exists in state law to own solar, but she added that the right is "seriously diminished" by the language prohibiting subsidies.

The proposed amendment "would have the practical effect of maintaining the status quo with the balance of power in the hands of the utility companies," Pariente wrote.

The majority in the case found that nothing in the amendment was misleading.

"Additionally, nothing in the proposed amendment requires state or local governments to take any specific action — or adopt any particular policy — regarding their retained abilities," the majority wrote. "The proposed amendment leaves such decisions to government policymakers."

Representatives of some utilities supporting the amendment are raising concerns that more solar on customers' rooftops means those without it are having to pay more to maintain the electrical grid. But those utilities deny they are backing Amendment 1 to roll back net metering.

"No not at all," said Jeff Rogers, a Gulf Power Co. spokesman. "It doesn't even prohibit subsidies, it just makes sure state government has oversight."

Florida Power & Light President & CEO Eric Silagy told POLITICO Florida last year that many people can't afford solar.

"They shouldn't be subsidizing people who can go out and afford $40,000 rooftop system on their nice home," Silagy said. "But the people who have the ability do it shouldn't be prevented from doing it either. It just shouldn't be cross-subsidized — that's all."

A company spokesman on Monday denied the amendment is aimed at net metering and said opponents' claims to the contrary are misleading.

Debate on the issue is getting heated, with the likes of Gore and actor Mark Ruffalo even weighing in.

Ruffalo tweeted last week that Amendment 1 "will kill solar in the Sunshine State!"

On a campaign stop in Miami with Hillary Clinton, Gore said the proposed amendment will hurt solar power by killing net metering.

"Our democracy has been hacked," Gore said. "And the fossil utilities here have spent $20 million to try to pull the wool over your eyes — and $20 million can buy a lot of wool."

And on a WJCT-FM call in show earlier this month, supporter Screven Watson and opponent Stephen Smith disagreed vigorously on whether killing net metering was the objective of the amendment.

Watson, a consultant to the Consumers for Smart Solar political committee that sponsored Amendment 1, said the measure leaves government to "evaluate" in the future if utility customers are "unfairly" maintaining the electrical system.

But Smith, executive director of the Southern Alliance for Clean Energy, responded that the language prohibiting subsidies is a "poison pill" designed to make it more difficult for solar energy expansion.

Watson told POLITICO Florida the amendment was generated in response to a proposed constitutional amendment backed by the Southern Alliance for Clean Energy.

That amendment would have removed regulatory barriers to the sale of solar energy, allowing companies to install and lease panels on commercial property. Supporters failed to collect enough signatures to put it on the 2016 ballot and said they will try again for 2018.

Watson says that amendment would have removed consumer protections for those who lease solar panels. He said there are concerns that more solar energy will shift the cost of the grid to those who can't afford it — but he said that isn't happening yet.

"I don't ever mind defending what our language says," Watson said. "But what is a little frustrating is the parade of horribles that they are coming up with that are not in the language of our amendment."

His Consumers for Smart Solar points to situations in other states in which solar companies have gone out of business or put customers into bad contracts.

"The same thing (government) the solar industry loves and embraces and rightly so is the same people we are advocating stay in the process so there is fairness, and they don't like that," Watson said.

But opponents dismiss any claims of consumer protection provided by the amendment. They point to the utilities' financial support as proof that net metering is the ultimate target.

"There is nothing in there about consumer protection," Smith said. "It's eye candy to make people feel like it's doing something it's really not."

He said utilities "completely over-reacted" to his side's proposed amendment — the one that failed to collect enough signatures — by claiming that it would roll back consumer protections.

And he said the problem with Amendment 1 now on the ballot is that it doesn't define what prohibited subsidies for solar energy are. He predicted that if it passes, utilities will go to the Public Service Commission and request extra charges on customers with solar panels while claiming support from the referendum.

"Nothing is going to happen Nov. 9 whether this thing passes or fails," Smith said. "What is going to happen is how they use it in the future to justify their continued stranglehold and trying to limit the customer-owned solar market."