http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3831549/Former-MP-Ross-Cameron-s-bizarre-rant-defending-Trump-tape-Sky-News.html
84
8
Former Liberal MP Ross Cameron has unleashed a bizarre rant defending US presidential hopeful Donald Trump off the back of his tape scandal.

Mr Cameron appeared on Sky News' Paul Murray Live after Mr Trump faced off against his Democratic rival Hillary Clinton wearing a 'Make America Great Again' cap and the Republican's campaign shirt.

Not making a secret of who he supported, the political commentator explained why he thought Mr Trump was good for women after a 2005 recording emerged of him boasting about how being a 'star' meant he could get away with 'anything' when trying to bed women.

Former Liberal MP Ross Cameron has unleashed a bizarre rant defending US presidential hopeful Donald Trump off the back of his tape scandal

Mr Cameron said Mr Trump was 'a victory for women' drawing surprised reactions from his fellow panellists Janine Perrett and Graham Richardson.

'Now the Trump conversation, what it tells you is that in the private moment at the end of the day when the bloke is sitting down with his mates, the thing that his mind turns to is the female of the species,' Mr Cameron said.

'The female is the celestial body around which the male orbits, she is the wiki to which the male will always in the end return.

'She is the dominant figure in human history. The rise and fall of civilisations may be renamed "Who Gets The Girl".'

Like Mr Trump, Mr Cameron is no stranger to political scandal.

The former MP's career came to end in 2004 after he failed to be re-elected for the federal seat of Parramatta after the extremely religious and right-wing father-of-four confessed to the Good Weekend he had cheated on his wife, Genevieve.

'I have been an unfaithful husband,' Mr Cameron said at the time.

'If my constituents want to vote for a great family man, they should probably vote for the other guy.'

The political commentator explained why he thought Mr Trump (pictured) was good for women after a 2005 recording emerged of him boasting about his pursuit of women

Mr Cameron said Mr Trump was 'a victory for women' drawing surprised reactions from his fellow panellists Janine Perrett (left) and Graham Richardson (right)

Earlier this week, Mr Trump was heard bragging about his attempts to seduce a married woman in a recording made on an Access Hollywood set after he was newly wed to his current wife, Melania.

'I moved on her and I failed. I'll admit it. I did try and f*** her. She was married', Mr Trump said.

'And I moved on her very heavily. In fact, I took her out furniture shopping. She wanted to get some furniture. I said, "I'll show you where they have some nice furniture".'

The Republican nominee is later heard bragging about how his celebrity status allows him to do 'anything' to women.

'You know I'm automatically attracted to beautiful - I just start kissing them. It's like a magnet. Just kiss. I don't even wait,' he boasted.

Meanwhile Mr Cameron has courted controversy over his views that Hillary Clinton (pictured) has dementia

'And when you're a star they let you do it. You can do anything. Grab them by the p***y. You can do anything.'

The tape sparked Mr Trump's Republican colleagues to call for him to step down.

Meanwhile Mr Cameron has courted controversy over his views that former secretary of state Clinton has dementia.

The political commentator said a number of things, including her collapse during the 9/11 memorial service, led him to believe she had the condition that deteriorates the functionality of the brain.

'Her inability to have her two eyes moving in the same direction. All of these individual bits of data you have to treat them as either coincidental… or else as part of a pattern,' Mr Cameron said.