http://www.tribune.net.ph/headlines/reds-expect-duterte-to-issue-new-truce
84
8
National Democratic Front (NDF) consultant and former Bayan Muna Rep. Satur Ocampo bared yesterday that President Duterte has hinted at resuming a unilateral ceasefire with the communist rebels after both met at the Palace last Monday.

“We discussed matters that could be reiterated in the resumption of the (peace) talks in Oslo, Norway such as the declaration of an interim ceasefire with the (Communist Party of the Philippines-New People’s Army),” Ocampo said in a phone interview with reporters.

It is recalled that in one of his speeches last week, Duterte said that he is trying to avoid committing another mistake after his botched unilateral ceasefire with the Reds that was not reciprocated by the rebels.

An NPA ambush on state militiamen that resulted in the death of one Civilian Armed Forces Geographical Unit (CAFGU) member prompted Duterte to withdraw the ceasefire. “(Duterte) said that he will forget his word war with (Sison), saying that their exchange of harsh words will not deter them from pursuing peace,” Ocampo said.

Ocampo added that Duterte is open in granting the request of other NDF political prisoners from detention due to humanitarian reasons.

Among those named by left-leaning human rights groups for immediate release on humani-tarian grounds are alleged top CPP leaders Adelberto Silva, Wilma Austria-Tiamzon, Ramon Argente, Concha Araneta-Bocala, and Alex Birondo.

Silva, 68, a consultant for the NDF and is believed to be the CPP chairman, had undergone quadruple angioplasty before he was arrested on June 15, 2015.

Austria-Tiamzon, also who was the CPP secretary general during her arrest, has spondylolisthesis (forward displacement of vertebrae), hypertension and carotid artery occlusion.

Araneta-Bocala, 65, has weak lungs because of a history of pneumonia. She also has ulcer, recurring lumbar pain due to scoliosis, anemia, vertigo, goiter, and recurring pain in her left eye, which was operated on previously.

Freeing of NDF figures starts

The temporary release of detained NDF leaders started with the release of Jaime Soledad in Ormoc City late Monday night, Kennedy Bangibang from Kalinga and Renante Gamara from the Special Intensive Care Area - 1 of Camp Bagong Diwa in Taguig City.

Soledad was acquitted from murder charges last week while Bangibang’s motion for bail for murder and robbery charges was granted yesterday.

As for Gamara, who is charged with two separate cases, Branch 65 of the Infanta Regional Trial Court issued a release order for murder and frustrated murder charges while Branch 266 of the Taguig RTC has also issued the release order for murder with kidnapping charges.

Also, the Iloilo RTC granted the bail petition of top communist leader in Panay island, 65 year old Concha Araneta.

On the other hand, as of 4 p.m. yesterday, courts are also expected to urgently accommodate the motions of other detained rebels Alan Jazmines, Ernesto Lorenzo, Alexander Birondo, Winona Birondo and Ruben Saluta.

Last week, RTC Manila Branch 32 granted the motion for release on Bail for alleged Communist Party of the Philippines (CPP) chairmen Benito Tiamzon and Adelberto Silva and CPP secretary general Wilma Austria-Tiamzon.

Presidential Peace Adviser Jesus Dureza, in a text message to the Daily Tribune, said the efforts that the government shows in anticipation of the peace talks set on August 20 in Oslo, Norway are meant to demonstrate that the Duterte administration remains sincere in its commitment to resume the peace talks with the CPP-NDF.

“Releases of NDF leaders going through normal judicial processes are in step with the government’s intentions of making them available in the forthcoming resumption of peace negotiations,” Dureza told the Tribune.

The Tiamzon couple, however, will remain in the Philippine National Police (PNP) custodial center because the courts handling their cases have yet to issue orders for their release, a police official said.

In a report by Chief Supt. Philip Philips, the director of the PNP Headquarters and Support Service, to PNP Chief Director General Ronald Dela Rosa, the PNP has so far received one court order for the temporary release of Benito and Wilma Tiamzon.

Phillips told Dela Rosa prior to a PNP command conference that they are still awaiting the release orders that will come from three other courts hearing the cases of the Tiamzons.

Once the PNP HSS getd all the court orders, the police would release the couple, Phillips said.

The Tiamzons will be part of the formal peace negotiations between the government of the Philippines and the National Democratic Front (NDF) in Oslo, Norway, this month.

The Tiamzon couple are facing charges of illegal possession of firearms, explosives and ammunitions and harboring of criminals following their arrest in Cebu in March 2014.

Meanwhile, Dela Rosa said he expected the CPP-NPA to withdraw its support from the government’s anti-illegal drugs campaign so the organization could maintain its relevance in the eyes of the public.

In its statement, the CPP said it will no longer join the anti-drug campaign of the Duterte administration, branding it as anti-people.

The government thrust isn’t addressing the core issues in the society that lead to proliferation of illegal narcotics, CPP said. The campaign also put poor people to the disadvantage while the privileged and influential are treated differently, it added.

Oslo talks pursued

“The President assured NDF lawyers present during the meeting in Malacañang yesterday that the NDF consultants will fly to Oslo,” Labor Secretary Silvestre ‘Bebot’ Bello said.

Bello, who heads the government panel negotiating with the NDF, will fly to the Middle East today to attend to concerns of overseas Filipino workers there and will immediately proceed to Europe for the talks.

“The President instructed the Bureau of Immigration and Deportation (BID) and the Department of Foreign Affairs to assist the NDF consultants who will be travelling to Oslo, Norway over the weekend for the formal talks slated for Monday next week, August 22,” GPH panel member Angela Librado-Trinidad said.

Several detained high-ranking NDF leaders have been allowed to post bail to be able join the peace negotiations in Oslo under the auspices of the Royal Norwegian Government (RNG).

The government, upon orders of the President, did not pose objections to their temporary liberties to fast track the peace negotiations.

The CPP, along with its armed wing the New People’s Army (NPA), is waging Asia’s longest running insurgency.

The NDF is the political umbrella of the CPP-NPA.

Presidential Adviser on the Peace Process Dureza will head the Philippine delegation during the opening ceremonies.



