http://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/3479015/posts
84
8
Skip to comments.

Syrian refugees capture terrorism suspect and hand him over to German police

latimes.com ^ | October 10, 2016 | Erik Kirschbaum

Posted on by Berlin_Freeper

A Syrian refugee suspected of planning a terrorist attack in Germany on behalf of Islamic State was captured by police early Monday in the eastern city of Leipzig after another Syrian lured him to an apartment, tied him up with the help of other refugees and turned him over to police.



(Excerpt) Read more at latimes.com ...

TOPICS:

Germany

News/Current Events

Syria

KEYWORDS:

germany

hijrah

refugees

syria

terror





To: Berlin_Freeper

Behold, a Syrian in whom there is no guile.



by 2 posted onby lightman (I'm nobody special...just a follower of the siren call of the Ison.)

To: Berlin_Freeper

Pffft. Is this sopposed to make us ‘feel’ better?



by 3 posted onby RushIsMyTeddyBear (<<<<< he no longer IS my 'teddy bear'.)

To: RushIsMyTeddyBear

That’s it, I’m convinced.. They’re wonderful people. All that rapey/stabby stuff previous to this was an anomaly, I’m sure.



by 4 posted onby T-Bone Texan (Don't be a lone wolf. Form up small leaderlesss cells ASAP !)

To: Berlin_Freeper

Taqiyyah.



by 5 posted onby elcid1970 ("The Second Amendment is more important than Islam. Buy ammo.")

To: Berlin_Freeper

Well, that should justify allowing at least another 100,000 to enter the US, as far as Obama and Hillary are concerned.



To: Berlin_Freeper

Ok, these three or four Syrians earned the right to stay. Germany still needs to evict thousands of others.



by 7 posted onby El Cid (Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved, and thy house...)

To: Berlin_Freeper

Well. I guess I cannot say that they are ALL fetid filth. There are a few redeemable souls amongst them. Perhaps there is a glimmer of hope.



by 8 posted onby Hodar (A man can fail many times, but he isn't a failure until he begins to blame somebody else.- Burroughs)

To: Berlin_Freeper

A proactive way of managing and countering terrorism is from within a group, gang or organisation. Most refugees from Syria are not terrorists. Many are escaping because their homeland is in so much turmoil and terrorists are taking over. Instead of instigating war games for power play & economics in the M.E. (Russia & USA), we need political and economic stability to ensure ‘refugees’ stay put in their own countries.



To: elcid1970

Maybe they were members of a different terrorist group.



To: dfwgator

“Follow the money” - El Rushbo’s best quote. Explains a lot.



by 11 posted onby elcid1970 ("The Second Amendment is more important than Islam. Buy ammo.")

To: dfwgator

Nah, it’s all part of a grand chessboard!

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rgc_LRjlbTU



Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works.

FreeRepublic , LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794

FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson