http://www.themalaymailonline.com/malaysia/article/three-witnesses-give-up-rm1m-to-sabah-water-corruption-probe
80
8
Three witnesses give up RM1m to Sabah water corruption probe

An array of cash both ringgit and foreign currency, gold jewellery, land titles and luxury brand watches and handbags were seized from two high ranking state agency officials in a graft investigation. ― Picture by Julia ChanKOTA KINABALU, Oct 11 — Three witnesses surrendered RM1 million to the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission after they were called in for the investigation into the Sabah Water Department.

Sources in the investigation said that the witnesses included department officials and contractors.

“The three willingly surrendered the money to the MACC when called in to give their statement,” the source said.

MACC deputy chief commissioner (operations) Datuk Azam Baki confirmed the amount, but declined to elaborate.

He also said there have been no further arrests.

Earlier today, a magistrate court extended the remand for the four suspects.

The director’s remand was extended for five days, while his 51-year-old deputy and 55-year-old businessman “Datuk” brother and his accountant, 50, will be detained an additional seven days.

The four are being held pending investigations into one of the biggest corruption scandals in Sabah, allegedly involving kickbacks and money laundering of funds from RM3.3 billion in federal projects that were distributed to companies under their sibling’s names.

In MACC’s largest haul from a case involving individuals, investigators recovered an unprecedented amount of wealth including RM53.7 million in cash, nearly RM20kg in jewellery, RM60 million in bank deposits, RM30 million worth of land grants, RM30 million in accounts abroad and nine luxury cars worth RM2.7 million.

Other than the four, senior staff of the department could also be charged for various offences involving the siphoning money for the state since 2010.

The case has so far seen 40 witnesses called to give their statements, mostly staff and contractors of the department.

More are expected to be called up by the MACC, including family members of the suspects.