http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3743595/Mason-Lee-s-stepfather-ap-rotective-jail-cell-refuses-move.html
84
8
Mason Lee's alleged killer is being kept in a protective cell in prison, too afraid to leave for fear he will be attacked.

William Andrew O'Sullivan, Mason's stepfather, has been charged with the death of Mason, who was 21 months old when he died in Caboolture, north of Brisbane, in June.

He's being held in prison and didn't appear in the Caboolture Magistrates Court when his case was brought up on Tuesday, The Courier Mail reported.

Scroll down for video

Mason Jet Lee (pictured) was found dead at his stepfather's home in Caboolture, north of Brisbane, in the early hours of June 11, covered with horrific injuries

Stepfather William Andrew O'Sullivan (pictured) has been charged over Mason's death

Anne Maree Lee (left) was charged with the manslaughter of her son Mason Jet Lee (right) after he died from ruptured intestine but her lawyer said she will be fighting the allegations

A court has heard Ryan Dodson (pictured), 17, refused to get the Mason medical attention on multiple occasions

His co-accused, family friend Ryan Dodson, 17, has also been charged over Mason's death but was granted bail.

Mason was found with horrific internal injuries including broken bones and ruptured organs.

His mother, Anne Maree Lee was charged with the manslaughter of Mason.

Her case was mentioned briefly in Court on Tuesday where her lawyer, Brendan Ryan, said the 21-year-old was grieving the loss of her son and should never have faced charges over his death.

'She will be fighting the charge of manslaughter,' Mr Ryan said.

'The charge of manslaughter is the incorrect charge,' he added.

The Queensland toddler was expected to celebrate his second birthday on Monday

Emotions ran high outside the court on Tuesday as scores of people gathered to call for action over his death, with some clashing over claims they were profiting from t-shirts worn by those who turned out in support.

They chanted 'accountability for Mason, we want justice'.

'We are all concerned - it's not just Mason this is all in consideration of every Australian baby out there ... We will fight to the end,' supporter Jennifer Hansell said.

This comes as court documents allege child safety officers were just one kilometre away from Mason Lee as he lay dying at his stepfather's house.

Mason would have turned two-years-old on Monday.

Emotions ran high outside the court on Tuesday as scores of people gathered to call for action over young Mason's death

A young girl stood among protesters outside the Caboolture Magistrates Court on Tuesday

Ms Lee allegedly told the officers - who visited her three days before he died - that he was staying at the home of his stepfather and claimed they were going to visit O'Sullivan's home next.

Caboolture Magistrates' Court previously heard Hodson to get the child medical attention on multiple occasions, telling one person who said the toddler needed a doctor to 'f*** your mouth up, it's not our business, it's not our problem'.

He is also said to have told another person he wouldn't take Mason to see a doctor because he 'wasn't his child'.

He is also said to have been present when the toddler was taken to McDonalds at 3am, days before he died on June 7.

Officers are alleged to have visited the home of Queensland toddler's mother Anne Maree Lee, 21, (pictured) three days before he died

Hodson is heard directing the toddler on a neighbour's CCTV footage, after returning home with the fast food, saying 'Come on c***, you walk like a spastic.'

'Hurry up and grab your f***ing bottle. Mason, get here if you want your f***ing bottle,' he allegedly said.

While there were no allegations Hodson had physically abused Mason, he showed 'no care, compassion or consideration in any way'.

Of the three charged over Mason's death, O'Sullivan and Lee remain in custody, while Hodson was granted bail by the Supreme Court last week after his second application.

Hodson will live with his mother in Brisbane's north and be required to report to police three times a week.

O'Sullivan's case was also briefly mentioned in the Caboolture Magistrates Court on Tuesday morning.