http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3833433/Jogger-Wayne-Hearn-led-away-handcuffs-charged-one-punch-attack.html
80
8
Mr Hearn has been charged with unlawful striking causing death

A jogger accused over a random one-punch attack that claimed the life of a father-of-seven smiled as he was led away in handcuffs.

Wayne Hearn, 38, has been charged with unlawful striking causing death after Timothy Lang, 48, was knocked unconscious on Melbourne Street in South Brisbane on Saturday morning.

On Tuesday night, Mr Hearn was all smiles when he was escorted to a police car, flanked by detectives after being arrested at a Clontarf property.

The Fortitude Valley man, who appeared unfazed, was seen laughing in the back seat of the vehicle as he flashed a smirk at the cameras.

Scroll down for video

Wayne Hearn, 38, (pictured) was all smiles when he was taken into custody over an alleged one-punch attack that claimed the life of a father-of-seven

Mr Lang, who is a father of seven, was punched by a shirtless jogger after the pair exchanged words at 10.15am and died in the hospital on Monday

He is expected to appear in the Brisbane Magistrates Court on Wednesday.

The charge follows the death of Mr Lang, who was rushed to Princess Alexandra Hospital but died on Monday afternoon when his life support was switched off.

Just hours earlier, police released CCTV stills of the suspect, believing he could help them with the investigation.

It was reported the attack allegedly followed an 'exchange of words' between the jogger and Mr Lang, who are believed to have known each other.

The Fortitude Valley man appeared unfazed as was seen laughing in the back seat of the car

On Tuesday night, the 38-year-old manwas all smiles when he was escorted to a police car

It is believed Mr Lang lost consciousness after he was hit in the head and fell to the footpath.

Police released CCTV footage of the man who allegedly attacked the father as he walked past the nearby Fox Hotel.

Just hours before his arrest, police released a photo of Mr Hearn and said he could help them with the investigation (pictured)