http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3773259/Tromp-family-affected-mental-health-episode-spread-group.html
841
8
A mental health episode starting with one family member may have affected the whole Tromp family, resulting in their bizarre interstate journey, it has been reported.

The Silvan, Victoria family of five - father Mark, 51, wife Jacoba, 53, and their adult children Mitchell, Ella and Riana - fled to New South Wales last week, overwhelmed with paranoia and fear, but split up, and it was days before they were all located.

Their mysterious ordeal was caused by one member of the family having a mental health episode which affected them all except son Mitchell, The Herald Sun says it was told.

Scroll down for video

Mark Tromp, 51, (pictured with his daughter Ella Tromp) was missing for four days

Riana Tromp (left) and her mother Jacoba (right) are being treated in a mental health facility in Goulburn

Mark Tromp (right) was picked up by police on Saturday night and flipped the bird at media when he was released from custody

Mitchell Tromp was the first to leave the family during the strange trip

Mark Tromp's father George said: 'There's no sinister, no cult, no one else involved, that's why this is such a puzzle.

'I can understand why everyone is so intrigued. One day we'll know.'

Mark and Jacoba's children Mitchell, 25, and Ella, 22, have said they can't wait for the family to go back to normal after police found their father on Saturday.

The entire family is now accounted for after Mark was spotted near Wangaratta airport on Saturday evening and picked up by police.

He was later released from police custody and flipped the bird to media and is now staying with his brother Ken.

Jacoba turned up at a hospital in Yass in rural NSW on Thursday after separating from her husband.

Before Mark was found his family told the media they believed their father was still in Victoria after a series of break-ins in Milawa, a small town south-east of Wangaratta, Sydney Morning Herald reported.

The Tromps left their home in Silvan, Melbourne on Monday without their mobile phones, credit cards or passports.

Mark was reportedly paranoid that someone was going to kill them, but police have said the family were never in danger.

Mitchell Tromp and his sister Ella have returned to their home at Silvan, where they addressed media on Sunday morning

The couple's three children went with them on the off-grid holiday before leaving when they realised their parents were 'delusional'.

Mitchell was the first of the couple's children to leave. He got out of the car in Kelso, near Bathurst on Monday where he took public transport back to Melbourne.

Riana, 29, and Ella left their parents at Jenolan Caves. Ella allegedly took a ute and drove towards Melbourne with her sister on Monday night – but they became separated in Goulburn.

The children reported their parents missing in Goulburn. Riana was found there the next day in the back of a stranger's ute and appeared 'catatonic' when she was found.

Riana and her mother are both in a mental health facility in Goulburn.

Speaking to media on Friday, Mitchell said he couldn't explain the family's paranoia.

'I've never seen anything like it. It's really hard to explain or put a word on it but they were just fearing for their lives and then they decided to flee,' Mitchell said.

Mitchell and Ella Tromp addressed media on Sunday after their whole family had been accounted for

Mark Tromp (pictured) fled fearing people were out to hurt him and his family

Mitchell and Ella said they couldn't comment on what caused their panicked road trip as police were investigating

But t he reason could be a shared delusional schizophrenia, The Goulburn Post reported.

The newspaper claimed a police circular shown to them suggested the family had been diagnosed with the mental illness.

And the Herald Sun earlier speculated it could have been a condition known as folie à deux.

The condition almost always occurs in tight-knit families between partners and siblings who could be otherwise socially isolated.

People affected by the condition fall into a cycle of reinforcing each other's paranoid delusions.

The couple's family, including their children, have reinforced how tight-knit they were.

They worked together on the family farm and had unbreakable friendships.

Two of the three adult children live with their parents.

Speaking to media on Sunday after the whole family had been found, Mitchell and Ella said they couldn't comment on what triggered the family's panicked road trip, saying it was the subject of a police investigation.

'The main thing is everything worked out well,' Mitchell told reporters.

'He thinks people are after him. He's not in a good state of mind,' Mitchell said of his father