http://traveller24.news24.com/TravelPlanning/VisaInfo/evisas-cut-the-red-tape-and-roll-out-the-red-carpet-20161011
874
8
YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE {{item.title}}



Cape Town - Democratic Alliance Shadow Minister of Tourism James Vos says it is essential for the eVisa system to be rolled out in South Africa, "as a matter of urgency".

Vos says he has essentially challenged the Minister of Home Affairs, Malusi Gigaba and the Minister of Tourism, Derek Hanekom for allegedly "failing to safeguard the long-term prosperity of the South African tourism industry by refusing to implement electronic visas".

Releasing a statement on the matter, Vos says biometric visas have been problematic since it first came into effect, adding that “some of the obstacles are the confusion around the application of the Unabridged Birth Certificate, unacceptable long delays at the immigration check points at South African airports, and foreign missions ill-equipped to deal with applications.”

Vos says he has repeatedly reached out to the ruling party and states he plans on addressing the matter directly with Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa, as the Chair of the Inter-Ministerial Committee (IMC) on Visa Regulations, calling on him to "urgently escalate the roll-out of electronic Visas as a means of streamlining tourist facilitation".

'Streamlining tourist facilitation'

The eVisa system is meant to be the solution to the current "Visa regulation catastrophe and would facilitate easier access for tourists to South Africa" according to Vos, who highlights that the concessions on the visa and birth certificate regulations announced by the IMC are still only at policy level and not amended law as yet.

The outstanding matters from the IMC recommendations require the actual amendment to the Immigration Regulations that deals with the requirement of the unabridged birth certificates and the announcement on Visa exemptions for BRICS countries, to ease travel and increase tourist arrivals to the country.”

Having the process streamlined would go a long way in facilitating both business and leisure travel.

SEE: SA's visa rules in review: 5 key developments to keep an eye on

Vos says that, given the current situation of the country’s economic status, with the rand being at its lowest point in 14 years, the government should "cut the red tape and roll out the red carpet".

"Every day people are turned away from travelling to South Africa because of continued confusion surrounding the requirement for unabridged birth certificates for minors travelling to the country. This is according to figures received from several sources within the airline industries."

"Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa must immediately put an end to the cloak and dagger Inter-Ministerial Committee set up to 'consider the unintended consequences' of these job-killing visa regulations, and institute a substantive and whole-scale review which seeks to assess both their suitability and effect."

'Failing to implement electronic visas will ultimately cost the SA'

"The failure to implement electronic visas will ultimately cost the South African tourism sector by making it more difficult to attract visitors to South Africa."



"In failing to implement electronic visas, in line with other countries such as Zambia and Turkey, government, during its announcement of the concessions, failed to seize an opportunity to act in the best interest of South African tourism. Electronic visas will drastically cut the turnaround time for the issuing of travel documentation, and are in fact more secure than existing permits," says Vos.

"The time has come for them to provide answers to Parliament."



SEE: DHA warns of fake online scam trying to con 'desperate visa applicants'

In response to the statement released by Vos, The Department of Home Affairs spokesperson, Mayihlome Tshwete says that it has always been in the department's plan to roll out e-visas, with an e-visa prototype planned for next financial year.

However, it will be implemented in phases as a result of capacity and operation challenges, as well as a need for resources and funds, according to Tshwete.

Tshwete also stated that it is exactly the relaxed visa laws of our country that make people want to travel to SA and the addition of "e-visas to the industry will not determine the fall of the industry".

SA currently does not have e-visas, yet the tourism industry is thriving, says Tshwete. According to data released by Statistics SA, there were 1 012 641 tourist arrivals recorded for the first month of 2016, representing a 15% growth compared to January last year, which is when the most damaging effects of the visa changes were recorded.

"Anyone who had travelled to some countries knows that biometrics are a standard feature at many airports on arrival and that it is taken at any country that takes it biometrics seriously, South Africa is merely following the global trend," he says.

Yet in light of South Africa's tightening of its security measures and in a rather bitter irony, the Green Mamba has just lost its visa-on-arrival status in New Zealand, with South Africans now needing to apply online for a visa as of 21 November.

In response Tshwete says, "On our part, we will continue to engage with the New Zealand government to arrive at a common understanding on the matter. To this end, we find it unfortunate given the vast improvements to our systems over the years.

"The Department will consider a response and communicate once it has been concluded."

Tshwete did however confirm to Traveller24 that the DHA is open to receiving communication from Vos and would look at exchanging information with the opposition party for future comment.

What to read next on Traveller24:

- WATCH: Jennifer Aniston's reaction to finding herself in economy is too funny!

- Map: Must-visit attractions of the Sunshine Coast



- Get Wi-Fi Passwords from airports around the world on an app

