http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3849554/Florida-teen-15-dies-brutally-attacked-group-juveniles-left-brain-dead.html
10
1
A 15-year-old boy who was attacked and beaten in an upscale suburb near Orlando, Florida, has died in a hospital.

Roger Trindade was taken off life support Monday following the brutal attack at the weekend, the Orlando Sentinel reported.

The Brazilian transfer student and his family moved from Brazil to Central Florida after his father, Rodrigo received a work transfer, the newspaper reported.

Trindade, who was a student at Winter Park High School, got into a confrontation with a group of juvenile males Saturday night on Park Avenue and was brain dead by the time he arrived at a hospital.

Roger Trindade, 15, (left and right) was taken off life support Monday following a brutal weekend attack that left him brain dead in a suburb near Orlando

Winter Park Police Chief Michael Deal (pictured) said detectives are investigating the case as a suspicious death, adding that police don't 'believe this was a group of juveniles in the park looking to hurt someone'

Friends and classmates said Trindade was nervous and shy when he first came to the school, but that all changed once his English improved.

Classmate, Ashley Julison, who is a senior at Winter Park High School, told the Sentinel that Trindade was 'really positive' and 'had this contagious laugh that was the cutest thing ever'.

He began taking advanced courses, making new friends and happily sharing Brazilian desserts from home when he wasn't playing soccer, the Sentinel reported.

Earlier on Tuesday, police said the attackers could be students at the Winter Park High School, which is about four miles from where Trindade was attacked.

Winter Park Police Chief Michael Deal has since said the department has identified suspects in the case.

Some suspects and their parents are cooperating with the investigation, he told the Sentinel.

On Saturday night, by the time police arrived at the scene, the males involved had scattered and fled, police told the Sentinel.

Deal said detectives are investigating the case as a suspicious death, but said that police don't 'believe this was a group of juveniles in the park looking to hurt someone'.

Police said because there were not many signs of external trauma, a medical examiner will need to determine cause of Trindade's death

A makeshift memorial made up of teddy bears and flowers were placed near a tree in remembrance of the teen

Police have not said how many people were involved in the attack and no arrests have been made. But a task force of detectives from agencies across central Florida is investigating the attack

Police said because there were not many signs of external trauma, a medical examiner will need to determine cause of death.

In a statement posted to Facebook, police said the incident appeared to be isolated and 'does not provide further safety concern for our residents and visitors'.

The school's principal, Tim Smith, sent a message to parents letting them know that grief counselors would be available to students, according to the Sentinel.

Smith said in the message: 'The tragedy that occurred in the community leading to our student's death leaves us all with many questions, and we are here to support students.'

The teen's family asked for privacy as they mourn the loss of their child.

The Brazilian Consulate is also in contact with Winter Park police since the news spread on social media and made headlines in Brazil.

Police have not said how many people were involved in the attack and no arrests have been made.