http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/modi-pakistan-balochistan-gilgit-pok-red-fort/1/741100.html
874
8
Highlights 1 Modi admonished Pakistan in his Independence Day speech.

2 Modi raised issues of human rights violation in Balochistan from Red Fort.

3 Modi thanked people of PoK and Balochistan for supporting his stand.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi became the first Indian leader to use Independence Day speech from the ramparts of the Red Fort to raise issues of Pak-occupied Kashmir and Gilgit, while almost reproaching Pakistan for human rights violations in Balochistan.

The PM also criticised Pakistan for supporting cross-border terrorism and praising terrorists who kill innocent people on Indian soil in the Kashmir Valley and elsewhere.

"When you look at things from the scale of human values and humanity, when innocent school children were massacred in Peshawar, Indian Parliament wept, every school in India shed tears at this tragedy. On the other hand we have a situation where some people glorify terrorists in our country," Modi said.

THANKING BALOCHISTAN, PoK

In what is seen as tit for tat tactics, PM Modi said that ever since he talked about Pakistani establishment's record on human rights abuse in Balochistan, Gilgit and PoK, he had been flooded with messages of gratitude by people from those area. "I am grateful to the people of Balochistan, Gilgit and PoK who have thanked me in the past few days. If people of Balochistan thank me, they are thanking the 125 crore Indians," the PM said.

In one of the longest Independence Day speeches ever, the PM laid emphasis on stern dealing with terrorism saying, "The country will never bow down before terrorists. It will never tolerate terrorism.

PM'S APPEAL TO KASHMIRI YOUTHS

Modi also appealed to the youths of Jammu and Kashmir to take more constructive way and shun violence. He told them to "please go back, do not follow the path of terror. Follow and fulfil your parent's dreams."

Fresh wave unrest is being witnessed in the Valley following killing of Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist Burhan Wani on July 8. Many parts of Jammu and Kashmir have been under curfew for over past five weeks. More than fifty people have lost their lives and hundreds received injury in the clashes with security forces.

PAKISTAN'S RESPONSE TO MODI'S SPEECH

Within hours of the PM's third Independence Day speech, Pakistan was responded with an invitation for talks. Pakistan's Foreign Secretary called in Indian High Commissioner in Islamabad and handed over a letter for India's Foreign Secretary S Jaishankar inviting him to visit Pakistan for talks on Jammu and Kashmir.

However, this invitation is more like a provocation as Pakistan again referred to settlement of the Kashmir issue as per UN Resolution. India has already rejected Pakistan's demand for discussion under UN Resolution calling it outdated.

ALSO READ:

PM Modi's Independence Day speech: Top 10 quotes

Pakistan formally invites India for talks on Kashmir

PM Modi attacks Pakistan in I-Day speech: They glorify terrorists while India cried for Peshawar