http://www.nytimes.com/2016/10/11/briefing/samsung-us-election-cleveland-indians.html
80
8
Photo

(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)

Good morning.

Here’s what you need to know:

• On the campaign trail.

Donald J. Trump and Hillary Clinton will hold rallies today in Florida, where polls show the race is still tight. Mrs. Clinton is scheduled to appear with a familiar face: former Vice President Al Gore.

Mr. Trump will spend the final weeks of his campaign without the support of a top Republican leader, Speaker Paul D. Ryan, who effectively conceded the presidential race to Mrs. Clinton on Monday. Here’s a look at where Republicans locked in close congressional races stand on Mr. Trump.

• Continued scrutiny for candidates.

Emails released by WikiLeaks on Monday revealed some of the inner workings of Mrs. Clinton’s campaign, its struggle to refine its message during the early stages of the race, and discussions about negative attacks on her opponent in the Democratic primary, Senator Bernie Sanders.

Photo

In response to Mr. Trump’s 2005 remarks bragging about sexual assault, an author took to social media Friday night asking women to “tweet me your first assaults.” By Monday afternoon, nearly 27 million people had commented or visited the Twitter page.

An undecided voter has also drawn attention on the internet: His name is Kenneth Bone.

• Samsung ends production of fire-prone phone.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Recent reports of Galaxy 7 Note smartphones igniting have led the company to permanently stop production of the devices. The move is an embarrassing about-face for the electronics giant.

• A quieter Islamic State.

ISIS propaganda operations often show a functioning state and happy civilians, portrayals seeking to lure thousands of fighters from around the world to Iraq and Syria.

But after a year of airstrikes, the group’s media output is declining sharply. “They’re dropping the utopian sales pitch they started with. And that’s hurting their recruiting effort,” a counterterrorism expert says.

• Hurricane evacuees are stuck inland.

Some residents of coastal North Carolina who heeded calls to evacuate went to places that might typically be havens, only to become trapped by severe flooding from the storm.

The authorities in the state say they fear that swollen rivers will continue to rise.

• Protesting for the long haul.

Photo

Native Americans fighting to prevent construction of an oil pipeline in North Dakota say they have no plans to stop and are prepared to camp out all winter. The company building the $3.7 billion project is racing to finish by January.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Sign-up for free NYT Newsletters Morning Briefing News to start your day, weekdays Opinion Today Thought-provoking commentary, weekdays Cooking Delicious recipes and more, 5 times a week Race/Related A provocative exploration of race, biweekly Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Business

• Coca-Cola and PepsiCo have given millions of dollars in recent years to nearly 100 health groups, while also spending millions to defeat legislation that could curb soda consumption by Americans, a new study finds.

• The Atlantic has named a new editor who will be familiar to its readers: Jeffrey Goldberg, a correspondent for the magazine since 2007.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• Keep your spending decisions separate from your saving decisions, advises our personal finance columnist, who warns us to avoid believing “that losing or spending your own money saves you money in the long run.”

• U.S. stocks finished higher on Monday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.

Market Snapshot View Full Overview

Noteworthy

• “Go back to China!”

That was the ugly phrase yelled at a Times editor and his family as they left church on Sunday morning in New York City.

Michael Luo’s parents fled mainland China for Taiwan before the Communist takeover, and they later moved to the United States, where Mr. Luo was born. “Maybe you don’t know this, but the insults you hurled at my family get to the heart of the Asian-American experience,” he wrote in an open letter to the woman who shouted the phrase.

The letter has drawn sharp reactions from readers.

• Review of Elena Ferrante’s new book.

Last week we told you about the journalist who claimed to uncover the identity of the writer behind the pseudonym Elena Ferrante, and about the backlash that ensued.

Ms. Ferrante’s latest book, “Frantumaglia,” is a collection of letters, essays and interviews. “It’s a padded, often self-indulgent volume that undermines her stated belief that ‘books, once they are written, have no need of their authors,’ ” our critic writes.

• Baseball playoffs.

The Cleveland Indians completed their sweep of the Boston Red Sox and will face the Toronto Blue Jays for the American League title. The loss ended not only Boston’s postseason but also the career of the famed slugger David Ortiz.

Photo

The Nationals and Cubs can advance with wins tonight.

• Recipe of the day.

Try Penne all’Arrabbiata tonight. The pasta dish, with tomato sauce, cheese and hot pepper flakes, takes about a half-hour to make.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Back Story

An ambitious project to document the lives lost to the AIDS epidemic was unfurled on the National Mall in Washington, D.C., on this day in 1987.

The Names Project AIDS Memorial Quilt was “a juxtaposition of deep sadness with joyful creation,” a volunteer told The Times.

Photo

By then, not even a decade into the AIDS crisis, more than 20,000 people in the U.S. had already died of the disease or related causes. According to the World Health Organization, the toll has risen to nearly 35 million worldwide.

A regimen of three antiretroviral drugs can help patients live longer and greatly decrease their chances of spreading the virus, but it continues to take a painful toll on sub-Saharan Africa. At least 23 million people there live with the virus, and the region accounts for two-thirds of new infections.

The AIDS quilt, which had 1,920 panels when it was displayed in the nation’s capital, was taken to cities across the U.S. “We hope it will help people to remember,” the project’s founder, Cleve Jones, said in a speech a year after the project’s debut. “We hope it will teach our leaders to act.”

The quilt has grown over the years. It now weighs more than 54 tons, with more than 49,000 panels and 96,000 names.

Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern and updated on the web all morning.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.

You can sign up here to get the briefing delivered to your inbox.