http://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/news/tenyear-ban-after-garda-pursuit-35061231.html
10
1
A young man who racked up four no insurance charges and brought gardai on a high speed chase through the town of Balbriggan has been given a ten year driving ban and a five month suspended sentence.

A young man who racked up four no insurance charges and brought gardai on a high speed chase through the town of Balbriggan has been given a ten year driving ban and a five month suspended sentence.

A young man who racked up four no insurance charges and brought gardai on a high speed chase through the town of Balbriggan has been given a ten year driving ban and a five month suspended sentence.

Gareth Lokko (25) drove through a number of estates at high speed at 8.45am on a Sunday morning before overtaking a vehicle stalled at a junction and drove blindly onto oncoming traffic on the R132.

Garda Colum McElligott told Swords District Court Lokko drove at high speed over a number of speed ramps and drove at speed down a narrow road at Hamlet Avenue before he mounted a footpath in New Haven estate. Lokko then drove through an area where two bollards were in place and abandoned the car before fleeing on foot.

Gda McElligott said the patrol car could not fit through the area where the bollards were but arrested him a short time later. Lokko, of Dun Saithne View in Balbriggan pleaded guilty to dangerous driving at Hamlet Lane in the town on January 31st. He further pleaded guilty to driving without insurance on the same date. Lokko also pleaded guilty to driving without insurance on the R127 in Balbriggan on September 24th last year.

He has 19 previous convictions including two for driving without insurance. Defence solicitor Fiona D'Arcy said Lokko admits he 'behaved very badly.'

'He assures the court he won't do anything like this again and knows he is facing a lengthy disqualification,' said Ms D'Arcy. She said the father-of-one, who used to work as a mechanic, has always had an interest in cars.

'He doesn't have a car anymore and to his credit he hasn't come to garda attention since,' she said. Judge John Coughlan disqualified Lokko for ten years and imposed a five month sentence which he suspended for two years for the offence of dangerous driving.

He fined him €25 and took the two charges of driving without insurance into consideration. 'You are in a situation where you are disqualified from driving for ten years,' Judge Coughlan told Lokko, warning him that if he even 'spits on the footpath in the next two years you will serve the five months.'

Fingal Independent