http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3804989/SEBASTIAN-SHAKESPEARE-Reclusive-Lady-Lucan-haggles-cash-home-movies-late-husband.html
10
1
The Dowager Countess of Lucan, the reclusive widow of the 7th Earl of Lucan, is so strapped for cash she is trying to flog unseen photographs and home movies of her late husband for £20,000.

‘She needs the money and is selling what is left of the family silver,’ says a friend. Veronica only formally became the Dowager Lady Lucan earlier this year after a death certificate was finally issued for her husband, enabling their son, George, to inherit the family title.

The Dowager Countess of Lucan, the reclusive widow of the 7th Earl of Lucan, is so strapped for cash she is tryng to flog unseen photographs and home movies of her late husband

After going on the run in 1974 after the murder of his children’s nanny at the family’s Belgravia home, the 7th Earl of Lucan left behind a trail of debt.

Veronica has been estranged from her three children since George went to live with his aunt and uncle, Bill and Christina Shand-Kydd, as a teenager. She lives around the corner from the scene of the crime in rented property.

This summer the Dowager Lady Lucan, 79, was in talks with a production company to allow them to broadcast some footage in a forthcoming ITV documentary which is expected to be aired next year.

But it is thought she might have been advised she could get more money on the open market.

Professional gambler Lord ‘Lucky’ Lucan bludgeoned his children’s nanny, Sandra Rivett, 29, to death with a length of lead piping in the basement of the family home after apparently mistaking her for his wife.

Lady Lucan was injured in the frenzied attack and later identified her husband — who had moved out after a series of increasingly acrimonious rows over the custody of their childrewn — as her assailant.

After the attack, Lord Lucan drove to a friend’s house in East Sussex in a borrowed car, which was later found abandoned with bloodstains inside. The mystery of his whereabouts provoked decades of speculation.

The Duchess of Cambridge’s younger brother, James Middleton, is moving back near his parents Michael and Carole Middleton at the grand old age of 29 – during working hours, at least.

The self-styled ‘Willy Wonka’ has moved the offices of his personalised marshmallow business, Boomf, from Clerkenwell in east London to a converted barn in Berkshire.

Middleton moves sweets firm back home to parents

It’s a home from home for Boomf, which has yet to report a profit. Its new rural premises in Ashampstead are next to the HQ of Party Pieces, the party planning firm run by Michael and Carole Middleton, and down the road from the family’s £4.5million manor house outside Bucklebury.

But James tells me he commutes each day from London, where he lives in a £2million Chelsea flat owned by his parents. ‘It’s only 38 minutes from Paddington,’ he says. ‘We’re surrounded by green fields and there is never a queue at the pub.’

Emma Walmsley had an interesting nickname

She was named the new CEO of Glaxo Smith Kline this week making her the most powerful businesswoman in Britain.

But Emma Walmsley, 47, has always commanded respect ever since she was an undergraduate at Oxford.

The 47 year old mother-of-four, who studied classics and modern languages at university, was called by her friends Triff apparently because she had ‘t’riffic t**s’.

IS CHARLES READY TO DIP INTO TWITTER? Thankfully Prince Charles has not yet become a regular user of the morons’ forum that is Twitter, but could that all change? Clarence House is advertising for a digital communications manager to develop ‘all online and social media activity’. In the ad on the royal website, it says duties will include ‘developing and overseeing all the online platforms and social media content and ensuring engaging and effective communication’. Charles’s former sister-in-law the Duchess of York uses Twitter for pretentious philosophical pronouncements that read like a parody, such as: ‘Through the forest, we will keep walking to the light.’

Canadia ex-model Lohralee Astor is following in her mother-in-law Lady Annabel Astor’s footsteps by launching an interior design company.

Not content with her career as a nutritionist, Lohralee, who is married to Samantha Cameron’s half-brother Will Astor, has registered a company called Lohralee Astor Interiors.