http://www.presstv.ir/Detail/2016/10/11/488583/US-Trump-Clinton-debate-Bennett
874
8
US Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump showed a better judgment than his Democratic rival Hillary Clinton during the second presidential debate, according to an American political analyst in San Francisco.

Scott Bennett, a former US Army psychological warfare officer, told Press TV on Monday that the debate provided a good look into the foreign and domestic policies of both candidates, specially at a time when Trump and Clinton were entangled in various controversies.

During the debate on Sunday night, Trump called her Democratic rival a "devil," while Clinton said the business mogul owes all Americans an apology for a campaign driven by insults and degrading comments about women and minorities.

On Trump’s lewd remarks against women, Bennett said Trump handled Clinton’s attacks regarding a 2005 video that showed him making obscene remarks very well, and even managed to turn the page against the former secretary of state by bringing up former US President Bill Clinton’s many alleged affairs.

Regarding the email controversy, which has dealt heavy blows to Clinton’s popularity, Bennett said Trump rightly pointed out the importance of an independent investigation into the former secretary of state’s use of a private server to exchange confidential emails.

Bennett said the incendiary debate has given Trump more confidence to carry on, boosting his “poise and articulation of the issues.”

On foreign policy, Bennett said Trump displayed better judgment, specially with regard to the fight against the Daesh Takfiri group.

While Clinton accused Russia of committing war crimes in its air campaign against Daesh in Syria, Trump hailed Moscow for targeting Daesh and said the Russian foreign policy has put America’s to shame.

He also said that, if elected, he would work with Russia to eliminate the threat of terrorism in Syria.

“That should mean that Donald Trump is not an angry, anti-Iranian, anti-Russian person,” Bennett opined.

This is while, despite his stance on the fight against terror in Syria, Trump has taken every single opportunity to attack Iran and Russia on various issues and it is a bit far-fetched to assume he would be any more friendlier towards them than Clinton.

“I think Donald Trump was very consistent in the Republican message of liberating people by giving them more authority, more family rights; whereas, Hillary Clinton was interested in bigger government, more regulations, more oppressive taxation,” the analyst noted.