http://www.independent.ie/irish-news/courts/pictured-notorious-criminal-fatpuss-bradley-enjoys-first-taste-of-freedom-35066941.html
84
8
Notorious criminal Alan ‘Fatpuss’ Bradley is enjoying his first taste of freedom in four years today.

Notorious criminal Alan ‘Fatpuss’ Bradley is enjoying his first taste of freedom in four years today.

Notorious criminal Alan ‘Fatpuss’ Bradley is enjoying his first taste of freedom in four years today.

Fatpuss was yesterday granted bail and released pending the outcome of a legal challenge against his imprisonment for trying to rob a security van.

Finglas mobster Bradley (42) was jailed for conspiring to steal from a security van transporting almost €1m in cash as part of a raid organised by slain crime lord Eamon ‘The Don’ Dunne’s gang. This morning, the criminal returned to the ordinary regime of domestic life and took a walk to the shops to buy a copy of the Herald to read about his prison release.

He went straight to his home in Kentstown, Co Meath after his release yesterday and was spotted close to a pet farm opposite his home. Fatpuss stayed at his home, which is protected by multiple CCTV cameras for the night, obeying his 11pm to 7am curfew.

Alan Bradley returns to his home holding a copy of The Herald

Fatpuss was out walking this morning with another man returning from the shops after spending the night at his home where he must obey an 11pm to 7am curfew. He declined to make any comment on his way home. READ MORE: Alan 'Fatpuss' Bradley granted bail pending outcome of legal challenge Fatpuss (42), with his brother Wayne and other ‘Don’ gang members, pleaded guilty in the Circuit Criminal Court to conspiring to steal cash from Chubb Ireland in November 2007 at Tesco, Celbridge, Co Kildare.

APPEAL He had been sentenced in April 2012 to nine years, dating from February 14, 2012, with the final two years suspended. This sentence was reduced on appeal to eight years with 18 months suspended.

Younger brother Wayne (37) was released from prison last December. Fatpuss was the second-in-command of the 2007 crime, just behind gang boss Eamon ‘The Don’ Dunne and also has close links to several major gangland criminals in the capital.

He was considered a major player in robberies in the 1990s and early 2000s. He was suspected of involvement in at least a dozen robberies, including a 1996 heist at the Santry Omniplex which netted about IR£600,000 and, at around the same time, a robbery at Dunnes Stores in Cornelscourt, Dublin, worth about IR£400,000.

There were also an exceptional number of robberies in 2005 to which his gang was linked. Fatpuss’s legal team said he is entitled to enhanced remission on various grounds, including that he has engaged in crime awareness, anger management and peace education programmes.

He also says he has the skill-set to start his own business on release in personal training and event management which, he believed, made him less likely to reoffend. Fatpuss – whose current address is Churchfields, Kentstown, Co Meath – has applied to the Minister for Justice seeking enhanced remission, but had twice been refused. Quash

He launched a High Court challenge against the minister seeking to quash that decision. On the basis of a one-third remission, Bradley claims he should have been released from Portlaoise Prison towards the end of June last. If granted the normal one-quarter remission he would be entitled to his freedom this December.

At the High Court yesterday, Ms Justice Miriam O’Regan heard that the while the State is opposing Alan Bradley’s action it was consenting to him being released on bail until the action has been determined. Micheal P O’Higgins, SC, said the conditions of Bradley’s bail include that he is to live at his home in Kentstown and be the subject of a curfew where he must remain in his home between 11pm and 7am. His passport was surrendered and he undertook not to leave the jurisdiction.

Online Editors