http://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/british-columbia/bc-craft-beer-events-1.3760651
80
8
Summer is turning to autumn, and On The Coast beer columnist Rebecca Whyman says that means the start of beer festival season in B.C.

"There are several, and they're conveniently being held on different dates so you can get to them all — like I intend to do!" Whyman told On The Coast guest host Gloria Macarenko.

Here are some of the events coming up in the next few weeks:

Whistler Beer Festival, Sept. 14-18

"There are events like cask nights and tastings beginning Wednesday evening, plus a tasting festival on Saturday and Sunday. There will be over 120 beers pouring from over 60 breweries, and a few ciders on hand as well. A couple of the area's not-yet-opened breweries will be pouring beers at the fest, namely Backcountry Brewery from Squamish and Highway 97 from Penticton, so be sure to try those ones!"

Hop Fest, Oct. 1 in Abbotsford

"More than 30 breweries will be bringing their fresh hopped beers to one location, and many of those are being brewed with hops from the farm itself. The festival includes tours of the hop farm, a farmer's market and a brewer's panel. Not just for hop-heads, the breweries in attendance will also be offering other beer selections for your tasting pleasure."

B.C. Beer Awards, Oct. 15 in Vancouver

"They're very close to being sold out! The annual event will be held at the Croatian Cultural Centre again this year, and Stephen Quinn will be reprising his role as host."

Whyman's beer picks for this week are newer releases offered from local breweries at the Great Canadian Beer Festival last weekend in Victoria:

Parallel 49 WobblyPop Pale Ale

"It's a pale ale. Just a pale ale. Nothing crazy going on here, just a good-tasting pale ale that's dry and clean, with fruity hops and biscuity malts. Five per cent, available in six packs of bottles and on tap at the brewery."

Powell Street Peach Sour

"Part of their kettle sour series, this tart refresher features a lot of northwest peaches. It's like they captured the end of summer and put it in a bottle. Available in 650 ml bottles and on tap at the brewery. 6.5 per cent alcohol."

Four Winds Passionfruit Berliner Weisse

"Light bodied and effervescent, it is gently tart and very fruity! 3.5 per cent, available at the tasting room and at some taps around the City. If you're going out to the tasting room in Delta, take your growler because you will want to fill it with this lovely wheat ale – and try the tacos too!"

With files from CBC Radio One's On The Coast