http://www.freemalaysiatoday.com/category/nation/2016/09/15/joint-federal-swak-police-raid-on-dap-reps-house-office/
80
8
Pujut assemblyman Dr Ting Tiong Choon says police also raided Miri DAP HQ looking for evidence of his alleged dual citizenship following election petition by rival.

PETALING JAYA: Two Federal police officers from Bukit Aman joined their Sarawak counterparts in raiding a Sarawak DAP assemblyman’s house and clinic office, as well as the Miri DAP headquarters, Borneo Post reported.

The events transpired yesterday morning when Pujut assemblyman Dr Ting Tiong Choon was on his way to the Miri Central police station to give a statement on investigations into his citizenship status. He was accompanied by his lawyer, Alan Ling Sie Kiong, and Sarawak DAP vice-chairman Hii Yu Huat

“We were on the way to the police station when I received a call from my family that there were seven policemen with a search warrant to search the house,” Ting told The Borneo Post.

Ting added that he carried on his way to the police station and was kept posted on the search going on in his house by his family.

“The police searched every room, including the laundry room and dining room,” he said, adding they were looking for evidence of his alleged dual citizenship and left after an hour without finding anything.

Around the same time, staffers at the Miri DAP office called up and informed the trio that police had also entered the office with a warrant and were carrying out a search on the same pretext.

It was at this juncture that Ting, Hii and Ling decided to turn their car around and go to the Miri DAP office instead.

“I was supposed to meet the police at 11am today (yesterday) at Miri Central Police Station, however, we were diverted back to DAP Miri office as police were already waiting there at 11am,” he was quoted as saying by the Sarawak-based daily.

On his way, Ting said some friends called him to say that a third police team had raided his clinic office as well.

According to the Borneo Post, on June 16, Hii King Chiong, the direct Barisan Nasional candidate for Pujut, had filed an election petition at Miri High Court registrar to nullify the results of the May 7 Sarawak election for Pujut.

Hii’s lawyer KY Lin had filed the petition over allegations that Ting is also an Australian citizen. Hii had said Ting’s win should be declared null and void on the grounds that Ting had misrepresented his citizenship status on the nomination form to stand as a candidate for the Pujut state seat poll.

According to Ling, who is a former Piasau assemblyman, the petition case had been transferred from the Commercial Crime Unit to the Criminal Investigation Department (CID).

Meanwhile, Ting said he believed the raids to be a hasty effort to collect evidence for the petition case to be heard at the Miri High Court at the end of this month.

“I think it is politically motivated as the court case is on September 30,” he was quoted as saying by Borneo Post.

Ting added that the police search for evidence seems to have followed closely on the one-week extension obtained by the petitioners to present their final submission to the court.