http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/crime/jailed-96-days-on-bogus-charge-it-is-no-ones-fault/ar-AAj81qa
81
8
© Oktibbeha County Sheriff's Office via AP This undated photo released by the Oktibbeha County Sheriff's Office, shows Jessica Jauch. Pulled over for traffic violations, Jauch was held for 96 days in a Mississippi jail in 2012, on a felony drug charge, without seeing a judge, getting a lawyer or having a chance to make bail, even though a police video showed she committed no crime.

ACKERMAN, Miss. — Pulled over for traffic violations, Jessica Jauch was held for 96 days in a Mississippi jail without seeing a judge, getting a lawyer or having a chance to make bail. She was charged with a felony based on a secretly recorded video that prosecutors finally acknowledged showed her committing no crime.

Only when she finally got a hearing and a lawyer, who persuaded prosecutors to watch the video, did the case fall apart.

Then, the 34-year-old mother sued, alleging violations of her rights to bail, legal representation, a speedy trial and liberty.

But a federal judge dismissed her case against Choctaw County and Sheriff Cloyd Halford last month, ruling that because she had been indicted by a grand jury on the felony drug charge, none of her constitutional and legal rights were violated.

The outcome has flummoxed civil liberties advocates who have been waging legal battles to reform Mississippi's criminal justice system, which provides almost no state funding for public defenders.

"I can't think of a situation where denying someone an appearance before a judge for 96 days after arrest passes constitutional muster," said attorney Cliff Johnson, who has sued Mississippi localities over pretrial detention and high bails for indigent defendants.

Similar lawsuits have been filed across the country. The American Civil Liberties Union is working state by state to force increased funding for public defenders, particularly in places where court-appointed lawyers depend on stingy local governments and court fees to get paid.

"I think each state suffers from the symptoms we see in Mississippi," said Brandon Buskey, a senior staff attorney for the ACLU's Criminal Law Reform Project. "This state just seems to have all of them at the same time."