http://www.philstar.com/cebu-news/2016/09/15/1624011/2-drug-pushers-killed-one-hurt-gunmen
84
8
CEBU, Philippines - Suspected drug personalities in Cebu continue to fall under the hands of unidentified gunmen said to be either vigilantes or drug players themselves who were out to silence others in the illegal trade.

Paizal Laranjo, 33, was fixing a motorcycle by the side of the road around 11:35 p.m. in Sitio Tiber, Barangay Ward 1, Minglanilla town last Tuesday when two unidentified men onboard a motorcycle arrived and fired at him.

Responding policemen saw the victim lying on the ground and with several gunshot wounds, particularly at the back of his head. They rushed Laranjo to the Minglanilla District Hospital but he was declared dead on arrival.

Police Officer 1 Aldin Traya of the Minglanilla Police Station said Laranjo was a "level 2 drug pusher" and was among those who "surrendered" during their Oplan Tokhang, or the campaign where the police knock on the doors of suspected drug personalities and urge them to turn themselves in for profiling.

Traya said Laranjo returned to the illegal drug trade after his release from jail recently.

Responding policemen found at the scene a bullet slug and four shells of a .45 pistol.

Freeman ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch:

Two-and-a-half hours earlier, in another barangay of Minglanilla, "known drug peddler" Ernel Mana-nay, a resident of Ward 2, Minglanilla, was also shot by unidentified persons in Barangay Calajo-an.

Mananay suffered two gunshot wounds to the right portion of the chest and was still at the operating room as of press time.

In northern Cebu, a 38-year-old drug "surrenderer" was also shot dead by an unidentified assailant in Sitio Cadayang, Barangay Poblacion Occidental, Consolacion town yesterday dawn.

Police Officer 1 Cresencio Saladaga of Consolacion Police Station said victim Eric Sanchez was sleeping alone in his house when an unidentified man entered around 4 a.m. and shot him several times.

Neighbors who heard the burst of gunfire allegedly failed to take a good look at the gunman's face and features.

Evidence recovered at the scene included six bullet slugs, including one that was deformed, of a .45 pistol.

Meanwhile, in Barangay Cantularoy, Sibonga, Cebu, farmer Luis Edullantes, 65, was buying alcohol at a store around 11:55 p.m. last Monday when an unidentified man shot him twice in the head, causing his death.

Police Officer 2 Ederlino Bacusmo of Sibonga Police Station said that prior to the attack, the victim was enjoying himself in a disco party when he decided to leave to buy liquor at a nearby store, where he was shot.

"Ang among pangagpas kay basin, giinitan ni, nakaapak og tiil katong nagsayaw kay senior citizen naman ni unya base sa among investigation wala gyud niy rekord ug wala puy kontra," Bacusmo said. — Iris Mariani B. Algabre, Mylen P. Manto, Christopher Kevin S. Ocampo (FREEMAN)