http://www.independent.ie/style/celebrity/celebrity-news/aoibhin-garrihy-back-on-irish-soil-after-spanish-getaway-ahead-of-next-weeks-wedding-35075294.html
81
8
Relaxing in the Spanish sun is not a bad way to start married life, as Dublin actress Aoibhin Garrihy has been finding out.

Aoibhin Garrihy back on Irish soil after Spanish getaway ahead of next week's wedding

Relaxing in the Spanish sun is not a bad way to start married life, as Dublin actress Aoibhin Garrihy has been finding out.

Relaxing in the Spanish sun is not a bad way to start married life, as Dublin actress Aoibhin Garrihy has been finding out.

Aoibhin Garrihy back on Irish soil after Spanish getaway ahead of next week's wedding

The former Fair City star is just back from enjoying some R&R in upmarket Marbella on the Costa del Sol.

Aoibhin enjoyed the short break with her sisters and bridesmaids - Doireann and Ailbhe - ahead of her wedding to Clare hotelier John Burke next weekend. The Castleknock woman will wed the businessman in a lavish reception in his Armada Hotel in picturesque Spanish Point, Co Clare.

Best few days with these two...#bridetribe @ailbhegarrihy @doireanngarrihy A photo posted by Aoibhín Garrihy (@aoibhingarrihy) on Sep 22, 2016 at 10:06am PDT

The couple will first tie the knot in her dad's native Doolin. In the run-up to the big day, Aoibhin (29) decided to jet off to the sunshine and enjoy a few days in the upmarket Puerto Banus.

The actress, who is best known for her turn as Neasa Dillon on the soap, has been working hard to look her best by lifting weights and running ahead of her wedding. Read more: Laid-back bride Aoibhin Garrihy still hasn't tried on her wedding dress weeks before her big day Earlier this summer, the pretty actress returned from the States, where she had been touring with Gate Theatre production The Importance of Being Earnest.

Aoibhin Garrihy and John Burke

Among those expected at her big day is her close pal and former co-star on Fair City Aoibheann McCaul. Just last month, Aoibhin had her hen party at the exclusive Mount Juliet Estate in Co Kilkenny.

Aoibhin and her gal pals indulged in some spa treatments before taking part in the old-fashioned country pursuit of falconry. They then headed into Kilkenny city to enjoy some cocktails before hitting the tiles.

Aoibhin Garrihy at the reveal of the Clarisonic Alfa and Mia Fit Sonic Cleansing Device at Counter Culture, Dublin. Picture: Brian McEvoy

glitz Aoibhin and John got engaged in June 2015 while enjoying a walk on the Cliffs of Moher.

The actress, who also appeared in the Fall alongside Jamie Dornan, has said that she is looking forward to a low-key affair with her nearest and dearest. "It's more about the people and the place and the day itself than the glitz and the glam. I hope it'll be a sentimental day," she said.

Herald