http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/713515/Migrant-smugglers-drunk-smaller-jail-sentence
81
8
Express*BBC Hassan Akkad fled Syria because of the Assad Regime

At a talk in the capital last week, refugee Hassan Akkad spoke about his journey as he fled from war-torn Syria to the UK. The 28-year-old said: "Smugglers in Hungary get drunk because then if they get caught, they can say that 'someone put these people in my car'." Mr Akkad fled Syria after he was arrested and tortured for protesting against the Syrian government - once he was even beaten with iron poles.

TWITTER Hassan has now shared his story across the country

Smugglers in Hungary get drunk because then if they get caught, they can say that 'someone put these people in my car' Hassan Akkad

After his dinghy sank in the Mediterranean with 63 other people in July 2015, people smugglers took him to France. The former English teacher in Syria described how his journey to the UK involved him standing with one foot for 11 hours in a cramped vehicle in Hungary and being "stuffed like pickles" on a train in Greece. The filmmaker, who left his home town of Damascus in 2012, said: "Syria was sinking, Syria is going into the unknown."

Six 'migrants trying to cross Channel' in dinghy spark rescue off Kent coast Thu, August 25, 2016 A small dinghy carrying six suspected migrants has been rescued just off the Kent coast. Play slideshow FameFlynet.uk.com 1 of 10 Migrants Suspected Of Entering The Uk Illegally On An Inflatable Dingy Seized At Dover

He described his journey and "being pushed from one country to another" even being helped by Serbian mafia people smugglers. At one point, a smuggler who was driving a vehicle with him and other migrants in said to them: "We will slow down and you jump".

GETTY Hassan was escaping the brutal Assad Regime

He said: "We wanted to look Western so we did not get caught, we wanted to speak English and fly under the radar." He revealed that when he was living in the infamous Calais jungle, he tried 50 times to get on lorries to get to the UK. However, the police dogs were soon able to sniff him and his friends who were hardly able to shower.

GETTY Hassan spent weeks in the jungle camp in Calais

He said: "I was the person who would stay in five star hotels in Lebanon at the weekend and here I was jumping five fences to try and get on the Eurostar, getting caught and walking back to the jungle." After weeks in Calais, Mr Akkad bought fake passports and on his second attempt after getting caught the first time, he was able to reach London and claim asylum. He first paid £3,500 for a fake Czech passport and an EasyJet ticket before being summoned back by border officials at the gate and ending up in a detention centre. Mr Akkad stayed with a family in Hitchin, Hertfordshire as soon as he claimed asylum in the country and he now lives in London.