http://nation.com.pk/newspaper-picks/23-Sep-2016/india-staged-uri-attack-to-avoid-talks-says-ajk-pm
841
8
LAHORE - The Uri attack was staged by New Delhi to avoid dialogue on Kashmir at a time when indigenous freedom struggle on its peak in the Held Valley, Prime Minister of Azad Jammu Kashmir Raja Farooq Haider yesterday said.

India had staged a similar raid on air base at Pathankot in January this year to malign Pakistan to avoid talks, he added.

Prime Minister of Azad Jammu Kashmir (AJK) spent a busy day on his tour to provincial capital. He attended a luncheon at a local hotel organised by PML-N AJK chapter leaders besides addressing the gathering.

He also addressed two different events at Lahore High Court Bar Association and Council of Pakistan Newspapers Editors at a local hotel. AJK Prime Minister met with Punjab Chief Minister, Speaker Punjab Assembly and Jamia Ashrafia head.

Addressing different functions in the provincial capital, Prime Minister of AJK said, “India staged incidents like Pathankot and Uri to avoid dialogue on Kashmir and malign Pakistan.”

Kashmiris struggle has entered the decisive phase with continuous curfew in the Occupied Kashmir for 70 days and martyrdom of our brothers and sisters, he said. Kashmiris are rendering sacrifice with their life, property and desecration of honour of their women, he said.

He ,however, added that the people of Held Kashmir did not want war with India but a peaceful solution to the Kashmir problem.

Pakistan government should continue its all-out legal, ethical and diplomatic support to people of Kashmir till achievement of the goal, he said.

He eulogised Prime Minister Mian Muhammad Nawaz Sharif for skillfully highlighting the Kashmir issue during his United Nations General Assembly address.

“A strong and democratic Pakistan can only plead the case of Kashmiris struggle. However the Pakistani politics should adopt a way forward for the solution of the issue as Simla Accord was an agreement between the two parties,” said the AJK Prime Minister.

New Delhi wants to destroy CPEC, which will be a game-changer for the economic progress of Pakistan with huge opportunities for its friend China, he added. Modi has influenced the Afghan President Ghani to advance New Delhi’s hegemonic designs in the region and to damage CPEC, he said.

“China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) is a game-changer and it is a symbol of a strong Pakistan. The project would create job opportunities and increase foreign reserves. However, the project is not being digested by India. India is promoting anarchy in Pakistan to sabotage it,” he stated.

“India has deployed a large number of troops in Kashmir Valley and Uri sector is a well-guarded area. I do not think that anybody would have crossed the Line of Control and attacked the Indian forces in the sector,” he added.

He said that India staged the Uri incident itself to sabotage Prime Minister Mian Muhammad Nawaz Sharif's visit as it had staged similar incident in the past also.

He said that recommendations had been forwarded to the Pakistani government for amendments to the AJK Constitution and it had been demanded that Gilgit-Baltistan should not be made a province as it would weaken Kashmiri’s case. “It would create various issues for Pakistan which would benefit India,” he added.

“India wanted to isolate the valley by separating Ladakh and Jammu to weaken the Kashmir issue. But, it does not mean that people of Gilgit-Baltistan should not be given their rights. The Gilgit-Baltistan should be given rights and they should be given status like Azad Jammu Kashmir,” he proposed.

He said that 73 per cent population of the Valley is Muslim and India wants to change the demographic situation in the area.

India wants to make separate colonies for the settlers who migrated from Rawalpindi division, he said.