http://www.nation.co.ke/counties/Growers-urge-State-to-release-Sh840m-to-Mumias-to-settle-debt-/1107872-3366500-x3ae6rz/
80
8
By LINET WAFULA

More by this Author

By ANGELA OKETCH

More by this Author

Farmers have appealed to the national government to release the final tranche of Sh840 million to Mumias Sugar Company.

Kenya National Federation of Sugarcane Farmers Deputy Secretary-General Simon Wesechere said the money will enable the firm to clear money owed to farmers for cane deliveries.

“We ask the government to release the funds so that Mumias can pay farmers Sh700 million it owes them,” he said, adding that the firm has been unable to pay farmers for the last eight months.

The government has already paid Sh2 billion to bail out the indebted miller.

“Most farmers have uprooted their cane due to low returns,” said Mr Wesechere on Thursday.

He asked the miller to streamline its agriculture section with focus on revamping sugarcane farming in the area.

“The solution to raw materials deficit lies in constructive engagement between farmers and the firm’s management,” he said.

While on a tour of the factory last month, Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Willy Bett said arrangements to release the remaining amount to Mumias were in final stages.

“State is committed to help the miller back to its feet to safeguard the livelihood of ordinary farmers,” he said.

The management had pledged to clear arrears owed to farmers upon receiving funding from the government.

At the same time, nearly 300 farmers in the Muhoroni Sugar belt in Kisumu have turned to coffee farming as an alternative cash crop.

They accused sugar millers of impoverishing them. The farmers, who hail from Kambi Awendo, Fort Ternan, said they had depended on sugar for long, yet the returns were poor.

GROW COFFEE

Ms Jane Wanjiku, who uprooted all her sugarcane in her four acres of land and planted coffee, said she has nothing to regret.

“I do not remember buying even a dress with money from sugarcane but ever since I started planting coffee, I have seen great improvement in my life,” she said.

Ms Wanjiku, who spoke to Nation at her home on Thursday said unlike in sugarcane where she had to wait for two years to get paid, in coffee payment is done thrice a year.

“Coffee is good alternative for those of us disappointed in sugarcane. I am a living example making fortune and not regretting.”

Sugarcane farmers have for a long time survived at the mercy of exploitative millers.

The millers also owe farmers for cane delivered in 2013, trapping the growers in a perpetual debt circle.

Mr Jacktonne Odhiambo, chairman of sugarcane society said they are advocating for more farmers to get into coffee farming.

“I have suffered more in sugarcane and will not look back,” said Mr Odhiambo.

He said in the year 2000, he had twins who were joining secondary school but they did not because the factory had not settled his arrears.

“My children reported the following year after conducting a mini harambee yet I had harvested six acres of sugar cane,” he said.

He said Muhoroni sugar factory collapsed without paying him his money.

Mr Odhiambo said sugarcane farming is involving but with little returns. Instead of harvesting 30 tonnes per acre of land of sugarcane, he harvested only two tonnes per acre.

“Coffee is just too good for sugarcane, two acres under coffee can change a life,” said Mr Odhiambo.

RELIABLE PRODUCT

He said the millers made them believe that they could not plant any cash crop in the sugar belt zones apart from sugarcane.

“We have crossed the bridge and will not look back, with coffee as long as they are taken to the factory, a farmer is sure of getting his money,” he said.

He has planted 2,000 bushes of coffee and planning to rent a land for more. He said with coffee once it is ready, it can be harvested for four months continuously.

The retired accountant said coffee has come in handy to fill the income gap for farmers.

The farmers said profit in coffee is far much better than sugarcane when the market price is high.