http://www.asianews.it/news-en/March-for-Life-ends-symposium-in-defence-of-the-family-38951.html
84
8
Mumbai (AsiaNews) – The National Symposium 'A call to human freedom and justice in the family and society: ethical concerns and pastoral approaches' ended yesterday with a March for Life in Bandra.

The symposium, which began on Friday, focused on many human ethical values, such as dignity, social justice, human rights – particularly the right to life – as well as mercy from the point of view of the moral teachings of the Church.

After 20 years since its creation, the Diocesan Human Life Commission (DHLC) continues its work organising and sponsoring a number of programmes to support life.

Last year's symposium, which was attended by more than 450 people, had issued two statements about euthanasia and surrogacy. This year, the meeting, was organised jointly by the Mumbai DHLC, the Catholic Bishops' Conference of India, the Commission for Justice and Peace and the Centre for Ethics in biomedical research of the World Federation of the Catholic Medical Associations (FIAMC).

The March for Life, which took place yesterday after the symposium held at Goregaon, saw the faithful walk from St Andrew Church to Our Lady of the Mount Basilica (Bandra). Bishops, priests, and The Missionaries of Charity led the way, followed by many young people, social workers and people involved in the apostolate of the family and health.

At the church, the faithful recited their prayers in front of the memorial to the unborn and recited the rosary in an atmosphere of peace. After this intense moment of spiritual reflection, marchers went on, holding banners with slogans in favour of life, until they reached the Basilica of Our Lady of Mount.

Inside the basilica, Bishop Agnelo Gracias, Eccl Advisor, DHLC Mumbai , welcomed the faithful inviting to reflect on the three cornerstones that guided the march, first of all, the "spirit of gratitude" towards God's gift of life; second, the march as an act of solidarity to preserve, protect and promote life in all its aspects; and finally action in favour of life in every domain, including the environment.

"Today," the Bp Gracias noted, "human life is threatened on many fronts. At birth, powerful forces promote abortion to eliminate it. During life, environmental degradation is undoubtedly a real threat to it. Unless we mobilise for change, the earth will not be a livable place. And, at end of life, some strive for euthanasia!" This was followed by a Pro-Life Pledge by everyone.

His Lordship Bishop John Rodrigues Rector of the Basilica, addressed the gathering and gave the Solemn Benediction.

Bishop Savio Fernandes, Auxiliary Bishop of Bombay and new Eccl Advisor, DHLC told the faithful that 'The family remains a key element in reflection as the place in which life should be preserved and protected. God created the family to allow us to live in accordance the values ​​of religion, tolerance, respect, acceptance, compassion, sacrifice and honesty. Each family is part of society and everything that happens within the family has consequences for society.

Later in the day, reference was made to John Paul II's apostolic exhortation on the family. In the latter, the late pope said that "the future of humanity passes by way of the family.

"It is therefore indispensable and urgent that every person of good will should endeavor to save and foster the values and requirements of the family."

The March for Life was a symbolic gesture to make people aware of the importance of life and to encourage the public to take a Pro-Life stance in their day-to-day living,



Marcia per la vita-1









Marcia per la vita-2









Marcia per la vita-3









Marcia per la vita-4









Marcia per la vita-5









Marcia per la vita-6









Marcia per la vita-7









Marcia per la vita-8









Marcia per la vita-9





