http://newsinfo.inquirer.net/810047/herbert-bautista-brother-hero-sued-over-drugs
831
8
Quezon City mayor Herbert Bautista was sued before the Ombudsman on Friday for dishonesty and neglect of duty involving the proliferation of illegal drugs after his brother, councilor Hero Bautista, failed the drug test for public officials.

The Volunteers Against Crime and Corruption (VACC) on Friday trooped to the Office of the Ombudsman and filed a complaint against the Bautista brothers for violations of Executive Order 292 or the Administrative Code for dishonesty, neglect of duty, misconduct, and conduct prejudicial to the best interest of service as public official.

The complaint was filed against the two for their alleged involvement in the proliferation of illegal drugs while Bautista is an incumbent mayor of Quezon City.

ADVERTISEMENT

The VACC also accused the two of violating pertinent laws, such as the Republic Act 9165 or the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act, and the Revised Penal Code under dereliction of duty.

They were also accused of violating the “Ordinance Adopting the Anti-Drug Abuse and Rehabilitation Program” and the “Ordinance Implementing The Drug-Free Workplace,” as well as the “Revised Rules on Administrative Cases in the Civil Service.”

In an interview, VACC Chairman Dante Jimenez said Mayor Bautista should be held liable for the proliferation of illegal drugs in the city and the spate of summary killings of suspected drug pushers.

Jimenez said he should also be held liable for turning a blind eye on the substance abuse of his brother.

Meanwhile, Councilor Bautista should have resigned outright instead of taking a month-long leave after he flunked the drug test, Jimenez said.

He added that in Quezon City, two police directors were involved in the drug trade.

“It is just incumbent for the VACC to file an administrative and criminal complaint against mayor Bautista and councilor Hero, who admitted using illegal drugs… Yan po ang aming mensahe dito (That is the message here)… That all local government officials are to be held liable on your respective jurisdictions,” Jimenez said.

“Matatagal na po kayo sa pwesto. Bakit po lumaki ang droga sa inyong lugar (You have been holding your posts for quite a long time now. Why did drugs proliferate in your area)?” he added.

“Unfortunately for the people of Quezon City, your mayor has reduced the Office of the local chief executive as a mere bystander (“miron”) in the government’s fight against illegal drugs,” the VACC said in a statement.

“He did not even care to advise his brother councilor Hero to resign for delicadeza. Is there such a thing as leave of absence for public officials because of substance abuse? This is a message to everyone, particularly local government officials that with more power definitely comes great responsibility to the people,” it added.

Mayor Bautista joined the government peace panel in Oslo, Norway to broker the peace deal with the communist-led National Democratic Front.

Mayor Bautista earlier broke down in tears as he admitted to his staff that his brother councilor Hero failed the drug test.

READ: QC mayor Bautista admits to aides: My brother Hero failed drug test

In a privilege speech, Hero called himself a “victim of the drug menace,” telling the council that he would go on a month-long leave

Bautista’s brother tested positive for marijuana and “shabu” (methamphetamine hydrochloride).

Public officials are admitting their links to the drug trade at the height of President Rodrigo Duterte’s bloody war on drugs.

READ: Caloocan Vice Mayor won’t tolerate brother’s drug use

In Caloocan city, Luis “Peting” Asistio III, the brother of Caloocan Vice Mayor Macario “Maca” Asistio III, surrendered to authorities last month and admitted his involvement in the illegal drug trade. IDL/rga

READ: Asistio scion yields, admits drug use