http://martini.heraldscotland.com/politics/14759972.Government_to_begin_formal_talks_for_Brexit_by__the_early_part_of_next_year_/
10
1
THE UK Government expects to begin formal talks for Brexit by "the early part of next year", Boris Johnson has confirmed, suggesting they could be wrapped up before the end of the two-year deadline; that is, some time in 2018.

Speaking in New York where he has been attending the United Nations, the Foreign Secretary also argued that trading off access to the European single market with free movement of workers was “complete baloney”.

"The two things have nothing to do with each other. We should go for a jumbo free trade deal and take back control of our immigration policy," declared the secretary of state.

Last week, No 10 rejected an assertion by Donald Tusk, the European Council president, that the Brexit talks would begin in January or February; Theresa May has only said Article 50 would not be invoked before the start of 2017.

But Mr Johnson told Sky News: “We are talking to our European friends and partners in the expectation that by the early part of next year you will see an Article 50 letter. We will invoke that."

The foreign secretary also made clear that even after Brexit, the UK would “continue to be a participant in common European defence discussions, security, foreign policy, counter-terrorism, intelligence sharing and all that kind of thing".

Referring to talk about the creation of a European army, he noted how EU states could, if they wanted to, “create these new cathedrals of intellectual beauty for their new common defence policy” but stressed it would be a mistake to do anything that undermined Nato.

"That's what really keeps Europe safe and that is completely understood in all the capitals of Europe," he added.

Meantime ahead of a meeting with Theresa May in No 10, Martin Schulz, President of the European Parliament, urged Britain to enact Brexit as soon as possible, stressing he wanted the "earliest possible triggering of Article 50" and that negotiations for Britain's departure should finish before European elections, scheduled for mid 2019.

He warned it would not be good for Britain or the EU if Britons were voting for members of the EU parliament while negotiations to leave the bloc were still going on.

Other developments included:

*Labour’s Chuka Umunna sought to “clarify” comments he made to the Huffington Post website - in which he appeared to suggest Britain would have to sacrifice its membership of the single market if the price was the continuation of free movement – saying the Prime Minister should try and secure both membership of the single market and control of the UK's borders in the Brexit negotiations with Brussels;

*Akash Paun of the Institute for Government think-tank told MSPs Holyrood ministers and the devolved administrations in Wales and Northern Ireland were unlikely to be treated as equal partners by Westminster in the Brexit talks;

*a new survey warned that the UK’s fastest growing technology companies said uncertainty over Brexit could cost "an incalculable" number of jobs in a previously thriving industry;

*banks and building societies said mortgage lending rebounded in August, showing fears raised about the housing market in the wake of the Brexit vote had been "wide of the mark" and

*Professor Louise Richardson, vice-chancellor of Oxford University and formerly of St Andrews, raised fears that quitting the EU could cause an exodus of leading academics, noting how already overseas institutions were trying to poach key figures amid concerns that funding from Brussels might not be matched following Brexit.