http://www.politico.com/story/2016/09/charles-boustany-prostitution-allegations-228099
84
8
Rep. Charles Boustany is one of 24 candidates running for the seat of retiring GOP Sen. David Vitter. | AP Photo Boustany's wife denies prostitution allegations against him

The wife of Rep. Charles Boustany is dismissing as “lies” and “false attacks” allegations that the Louisiana Republican was involved with prostitutes who were later murdered, and she suggested her husband’s political rivals are trying to smear him.

“He’s a good man, a loving husband, and an incredible father to our two children,” said Bridget Boustany in an email to supporters.

Story Continued Below

Bridget Boustany added that “Charles’ opponents have resorted to lies about him.” Boustany is part of a huge field seeking the Louisiana Senate seat this fall.

The email was first reported by The Associated Press.

The shocking claims involving Boustany were part of a book released last week called “Murder in the Bayou,” by journalist Ethan Brown. None of the book’s allegations about Boustany have been independently confirmed, although a Boustany aide who the book says was involved in the operations of a hotel allegedly frequented by the prostitutes has left his Senate campaign.

Brown’s book details the murders of eight prostitutes in Jefferson County Parish from 2005 to 2009. All of the cases remain unsolved.

According to Brown, undisclosed sources said Boustany was involved with at least one of the prostitutes who was killed.

In a statement last week, Boustany’s campaign said Brown’s allegations “are completely false and don’t even deserve a response. Dr. Boustany has a professional and personal reputation of honor and integrity.”

Boustany is one of 24 candidates running for the seat of retiring GOP Sen. David Vitter. The race is expected to go to a December runoff.

John Kennedy, the Republican Louisiana state treasurer vying for the seat, said in a statement that “my campaign played absolutely no role in creating this story alleging Congressman Boustany’s sexual relationships with prostitutes that were later murdered, his staff’s alleged involvement in running the bar and hotel where this illicit behavior took place, or publishing the book ‘Murder in the Bayou,’ written by Ethan Brown and published by Simon and Schuster.”

