http://www.4-traders.com/DELMON-POULTRY-CO-20702640/news/Delmon-Poultry-Poultry-farms-set-for-profits-plunge-23228988/
80
8
Bahrain : POULTRY farms faced "at least" 50 per cent drop in profits after they resumed production last month, according to an industry expert.

Awal Poultry Farm , which was the first to receive a consignment of chicks in August when production started, began its second cycle yesterday.

Its owner Ali Mahdi said that 30-day old chickens that he handed over last month were under the 1kg they should have ideally weighed.

"We started the second cycle and put the chicks into the warehouses," he told the GDN.

"After doing the accounts for the first cycle, I found that I didn't lose money but the profit isn't what was expected.

"It dropped to 50pc of profits I made in the past.

"Starting today we'll be using the heaters which will mean an additional cost of around BD10,000 for me per cycle and that could lead to another 10pc drop in profits.

"At the moment the temperature isn't too bad but by December it will be colder and the heating bills will affect us." Mr Mahdi , who has been working in the industry for more than 50 years, said fellow poultry farmers planned to hold a meeting to discuss developments.

"Everyone wants to see what the profits are and what our positions are," he said.

"I don't think Delmon Poultry will be very responsive to us. They are getting the chickens but not seeing the loss; they see a small profit while working is better than not having farms working." Negotiations Mr Mahdi admitted that while he would want to continue negotiations, working was "better than not working".

Moves are also under way to change the production from five cycles a year to six or seven.

"There are both pros and cons to this. We usually need a month between cycles and this would bring it down to two weeks.

"The extra cycles would give us extra money but it's not great for the farm because there won't be enough time cleaning it properly." Mr Mahdi added that approximately 31,000 chickens are slaughtered a day, but nearly 20pc was being sent back to Delmon Poultry .

"Over 31,000 chickens are slaughtered a day but they can't sell all because there's a strong demand for Saudi chicken," he said.

The returned chickens are frozen and sold at a cheaper rate, meaning more losses.

"People got used to the Saudi chicken when Bahraini chicken was not available.

"I'm worried about the chickens being returned because Delmon Poultry might drop production." Delmon Poultry did not supply hatchlings to farms between January and May because of a refurbishment, which along with the boycott by 25 farms since May has resulted in a shortage of locally reared chicken in the market.

While farms have agreed to begin work again, they have stipulated that they will not sign a new contract for at least one or two cycles, in order to assess profits in light of higher heating and electricity costs.

Mr Mahdi had told the GDN that in order to be successful, he would want to rear chicken to a weight of between 1kg and 1.2kg.

"In my last cycle they were 900g on average," he said.

"This time I'm trying to have 950g or 1kg. The chicks were from a different source ( India ) and I've been studying it to see how to get a better result." He said Delmon Poultry warned at least two farms after their chickens were severely underweight.

"The 30-day rearing period is not working great because the weights aren't equal.

"We can't get them to be uniform; you get chickens anywhere from 700g to 1.2kg." laala@gdn.com.bh