http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3788985/I-heard-daughter-s-bones-crunching-Driver-talking-phone-ran-killed-toddler-Asda-car-park-held-mother-s-hand-SPARED-jail.html
13
1
Mother-of-seven Hoden Aden, 44, who was on her mobile phone when she ran over and killed a toddler in Asda car park, has been spared jail

A driver who ran over and killed a toddler in an Asda car park while she was on her mobile phone has been spared jail.

Mother-of-seven Hoden Aden, 44, was driving near to a zebra crossing at the store in Wembley, north London, when she crashed into two-year-old Fahima Hassan, who was holding her mother's hand.

The court heard how Aden, who was talking on the phone while looking for a parking space, was driving at just 5mph.

But her view was obstructed by a box of tissues on the dashboard and the woman crashed into the little girl without seeing her.

Shockingly, Aden believed she had hit a trolley and continued driving over the girl for some time.

Aden initially denied causing death by careless driving but was found guilty last month following a four-day trial.

Today, she was sentenced to 14 months in jail, suspended for two years, after the court heard she had ill heath and has to care for her sick mother.

As the sentence was delivered, Fahima's mother Narmin Nur, of Kingsbury, north west London, ran out of the courtroom.

Speaking outside court, the 31-year-old - who also referred to her daughter as Yaya - said: 'We are not happy with the sentence. How can this be justice? We are so sad.

'How can someone kill a child and still walk free? I can't believe it. I know no sentence can bring Yaya back, but we thought she might get some prison time.

'As she drove over her I heard my daughter's bones crunching. I know she didn't set out to kill my kid, but she's never said anything to me.'

During the trial, the court was told how Fahima and her mother had just left the store in September 2014 when Aden hit her with her Volkswagen Tiguan at around 8.20pm.

Aden later told police in an interview she thought she had struck a trolley.

The court heard that Aden had been to a job interview earlier that day and was discussing it with a friend when she hit Fahima.

Szilvia Booker, prosecuting, said: 'On the day in question the standard of the defendant's driving fell well short of the standard expected of of a careful and competent driver.

'She was not looking at the road in front of her and there was a box of tissues partially obscuring her view from the windscreen.

Mother-of-seven Hoden Aden, 44, was driving near to a zebra crossing in the car park in Wembley, north London (pictured), when she crashed into two-year-old Fahima Hassan, who was holding her mother's hand

The court heard Aden collided with the girl 'simply because she didn't see her in the roadway'. The Asda car park is pictured above

'She was distracted by looking for a car park space and by a telephone conversation which she was engaging in on a hands free phone.

'This was a particularly tragic place for this to happen as it was an area many vulnerable road users and pedestrians come to do their shopping.'

Ms Booker said Aden collided with the girl 'simply because she didn't see her in the roadway'.

The car continued to drive over her for a period of time because she did not see what she had collided with.

'Because she was going at such a slow speed there was plenty of time to see the pedestrians, but she simply wasn't looking, she was unaware she impacted with the child and was confronted with a hostile crowd at the scene,' she said.

In a victim impact statement read to the court by Ms Booker, Fahima's mother Ms Nur described the last two years as 'hellish'.

'It has taken everything to rebuild my life. I have lost my child, she was ripped from me,' she said.

'Having to kiss a photo because I can no longer kiss or hold her and it has been indescribable.

'The child I gave birth to, raised and protected for two-and-a-half years has been taken.

'I kiss a photo of her every night, but have to lay to face down so as not to remind me of the pain.

'I know I was not responsible but as a mother it's the natural for me to feeI could have done something to protect her.

'It is something no mother should have to go through. My family life has changed and will never be the same again.'

Aden offered a plea of guilty at the start of the trial, claiming she was not on the phone. But that was rejected by the prosecution.

Sally Hobson, in mitigation, told the court Aden suffered depression, anxiety and weight loss after the accident, and that her only other driving offence was going 32mph over Tower Bridge last year.

Judge Freya Newbery decided not to jail Aden because of her remorse and poor health after the accident.

The Judge told her: 'This was a tragic accident.

'It was an ordinary shopping trip, but one with extraordinary consequences for all involved.

'You should have been aware of the pedestrians. Ms Nur has been left devastated and her victim impact statement was heartbreaking.

'Due to the remorse you have expressed and the illness you have suffered, I believe this is a physical expression of your remorse and guilt from this.

'Because of your responsibilities I'm going to suspend the sentence for 24 months.'