http://newsday.co.tt/news/0,225456.html
84
8
A d v e r t i s e m e n t

Students set fire to school

Newsday Staff Friday, March 18 2016

STUDENTS among 21 suspended by their principal for deviant behaviour, are suspects in the setting of a fire in the ceiling in one of the classrooms at the El Dorado East Secondary School yesterday. The early afternoon fire damaged a small portion of the ceiling of the classroom which is directly under the office of the Dean, which led officials to believe that the target was the office where files and other documents, including those related to student acts of indiscipline, are stored.

“I was made aware of the fire by the Chief Education Officer and what the initial investigations pointed to,” Minister of Education Anthony Garcia said as he confirmed the incident yesterday. “The suspicion — and this follows initial investigations — is that those who set the fire were among those students who are to be taken out of the school.



But I want to assure the national community that deviance in the nation’s schools will be stamped out.” The fire was also among a number of matters related to errant students engaging the attention of the Education Ministry resulting in 23 students overall being taken out of the school system yesterday alone.



The incidents also included reports of a fight between two mothers who were called by the St Augustine South Government Primary School on matters concerning their children. Reports are that a heated argument broke out between the two women which ended in the trading of blows. Police also had to be called and it is only by the intervention of the officers that the situation was quelled. The small blaze in the ceiling quickly extinguished reportedly by officers of the Tunapuna Fire Station.



A tough talking Garcia repeated that indiscipline will not be tolerated in the nation’s school.



“It seems as though some students are bent on continuing with their errant behaviour, and a school must be made safe for all those who operate within,” the Minister added, “And I am going to make sure that our schools are safe If it means taking out students, I will do that. Schools must be safe places so that learning and teaching could take place.” Garcia also revealed that a decision was taken at the school yesterday to suspend the 21 students whose names were listed among 31 cited for indiscipline.



The 21 who were suspended are to be sent to the Learning Enhancement Centre in Couva, while the remaining ten would be dealt with at the school itself.



“The action in both instances is to see how we could assist them in correcting their behaviour,” Garcia told Newsday. The El Dorado East suspensions followed a major meeting at the school yesterday between senior officials of the Ministry, guidance officers, both deans and the principal of the school.



That meeting was held as a consequence of discussions with parents on Monday.



He also referred to the situation at the Chaguanas North Secondary School which sent home 20 students for deviance last week.



In this case suspension followed a volatile situation in which a plot involving a gun attack on the school including the possible killing of a teacher was discovered.



He said 12 of those students were sent to the Learning Enhancement Centre in Couva.



He said the remaining eight were over the ages of 16 and, accordingly, under the law which speaks to compulsory education from the age of five to 16, they could not be forced to attend the Learning Enhancement Centre to be rehabilitated.







