http://www.newsday.co.tt/news/0,225204.html
84
8
A d v e r t i s e m e n t

MELTDOWN

By LAUREL V WILLIAMS Saturday, March 12 2016

click on pic to zoom in

LESS than 24 hours after they celebrated victory in the High Court, steel workers wore long faces yesterday as they faced an uncertain future after being thrown on the breadline as their employer, international steel giant Arcelor Mittal announced it was closing its operations in this country.

It was glum Christopher Henry, president general of the Steel Workers Union (SWUTT) who announced at a press conference, that there was word that Arcelor Mittal was closing its operations at its Pt Lisas plant. As a result, over 700 workers are now unemployed and 20,000 citizens would be directly affected.



Speaking at SWUTT’s office in California, Henry called for “an immediate intervention” by Prime Minister Dr Keith Rowley adding that the closure places a “tremendous burden” on the existing state of the local economy. Arcelor Mittal, he added, cited a financial debt of TT$1.3 billion as the reason for the liquidation.



“Just yesterday (Thursday) we had a victory in the Industrial Court against this company. That joy was short-lived by the information we received at a meeting this morning. We are talking about workers (some) with 30 to 35 years service. We are talking about workers who gave their lives to this multi-national company,” Henry said. On Thursday, the Industrial Court in Port-of-Spain fined the manufacturing giant $24,000 and criticised the procedures used in laying off over 500 of its employees in December. Arcelor Mittal, via a press release yesterday, said it intends to comply with the ruling of the court. The company promised to pay all monies owed to employees, “that they are legally entitled to receive, pursuant to the Judgement of the Court.” Henry said such action to terminate all workers was a consequence of a lack of legislation to protect workers against multi-national or private entities. “This is the fallout of lack of preparation with having legislation in place to protect citizens...



the working class, from the capitalist system that allows them (multi-nationals) to be able to come into your country, plunder and rape your country and leave,” he said. He said the company has offered a month’s salary for workers, “to survive on for the rest of the year.” Accusing Arcelor Mittal of turning its back on its corporate social responsibility as well as on the workers who helped “build an empire”, Henry vowed the union will fight for the affected workers and for the survival of TT. “The company cannot give us an answer as it relates to pension and that is something we will be dealing with seriously.



We are not only fighting today for our members, we are fighting for the working class and the survival of TT in this time when is is said we are in a recession.” In an immediate response, Labour Ministry Jennifer Baptiste- Primus said she did not feel the winding up of the company had anything to do with its loss on Thursday in the Industrial Court.



“The company filed for insolvency which is a judicial process. I am in the process of responding to the company to enquire what type of winding up process is this and who are its creditors,” Baptiste-Primus said adding that her Ministry is monitoring all lay-offs in the country.



She said the Government is developing a ten-point plan which includes liaising with the business community to try and match the skills of laid off workers with available jobs. But Opposition Oropouche East MP Roodal Moonilal was unimpressed, saying if the People’s Partnership was still in power, it would already have called in the business community before retrenchments took place to discuss programmes to protect jobs.



The Arcelor Mittal press release stated the company has been under “severe financial distress” since the second half of 2015 and a combination of local and international challenges resulted in the decision to close. This in addition to the company recording net losses since 2009. The plant, it further stated, has been idle since November 23, when 480 workers were temporarily laid off. This lay-off announcement was renewed last month when 498 workers were laid off until tomorrow (March 13).



The release stated that the proposed “major increases” in the price of gas and electricity at a time of falling commodity prices have rendered production costs uncompetitive.



As such the company had no other alternative. “Additionally, proposed increases to port rental fees, announced property taxes and business levies have further contributed to the unsustainability of the business. As an export-led business, Arcelor Mittal Point Lisas has also been severely impacted by the drop in international steel prices and global overcapacity in steel production,” the release stated.



Arcelor Mittal Point Lisas had discussions with Government and other stakeholders in an attempt to find another solution for the company including a potential sale, or a transfer to the Government. Unfortunately the discussions have not had a successful outcome, it added. Arcelor Mittal also recommended that a creditors’ voluntary wind-up be undertaken as soon as it is legally and operationally practical.



Commenting on the proposal to transfer ownership of the company to the Government SWUTT Chief Labour Relations Officer Timothy Bailey expressed confidence that there are competent local workers to run the plant. “We helped build the empire that Mr Mittal is a beneficiary of. We have workers who produced in the past and are willing to produce in the future.



“So, with that formula, the mixture of two ingredients, we think that it is a possibility, if given the opportunity. We can make that plant a more productive entity,” said Bailey as he dubbed some of the workers ‘experts’ in their respective portfolios.



Father of three, Ravi Sonny, an operation with the company for the past 20 years, admitted that he was “in shock” having heard the news. Sonny, of Gran Couva, said he is the sole breadwinner of the home and concerned about how he would maintain his family. “This is now sinking in. My kids are eight, ten and 14 years old and are all in school. I do not know what will happen,” Sonny said.







