http://www.news.com.au/finance/real-estate/sydney-nsw/twenty-landowners-discover-asbestos-dumped-on-their-land/news-story/cc100b3f4c1a25025439c20200e0a378
10
1
Kathryn Welling and Robbie Patterson Manly Daily

TWENTY new landowners in Frenchs Forest face a clean-up bill of tens of thousands of dollars after discovering asbestos has been dumped on their vacant land.

Northern Beaches Council is concerned about the contamination and will not allow any building on the former bushland area until the land is cleaned.

Meanwhile, the Environment Protection Authority (EPA) is threatening fines of $250,000 plus $60,000 for each day the land is left contaminated.

No one is claiming responsibility for the asbestos dump.

The 1.63ha site was first owned by the Metropolitan Aboriginal Local Land Council.

It was rezoned for housing in 2000 and was advertised and sold by Chatswood-based developers Vigor Master in 2013.

A spokesman for Vigor Master, Jesse Zhang, confirmed the Bantry Bay Rd land had been contaminated through illegal dumping.

“As far as we are aware, the land is currently free of contamination,” he told the Manly Daily.

He argued that the EPA had issued the contamination notices “without any recent evidence or site inspection but based on their inspection last year” and that further remediation works had been carried out.

“The previous contaminated materials found on land (seven pieces of asbestos) was illegally dumped there,” Mr Zhang said.

“The land is vacant and located at the end of Bantry Bay Rd. There is lack of casual surveillance given the isolated location of the land.”

One owner, Jessica Wang, is trying to sell her block at 210 Bantry Bay Rd.

She only discovered the land was polluted when her real estate agent did his own research.

She paid $948,000 for the 633sq m block in April last year.

“I was in China at the time,” Miss Wang said.

“My friend looked at the land for me. There were only one or two blocks left.

“We thought we could have a new house and choose the design. It was going to be for myself and my parents.”

Now, however, the family have decided to settle in an inner-Sydney apartment.

Real estate agent Stuart Bath, of Skyline Real Estate, said when he came to market Miss Wang’s block he found a key certificate was missing and an investigation showed the block had been covered with landfill containing asbestos.

“None of the owners knew about the asbestos,” he said.

“The current owners are not to blame.”

Mr Bath said that he thought it would cost tens of thousands of dollars to clear the site. The land is now fenced.

The protection authority received information about 20 polluted blocks of land in July last year.

It took samples and confirmed the presence of chrysotile or amosite asbestos.

The landowners were ordered to clean up the sites in October 2015.

In November, EPA officers inspected the subdivision again at the southern end of Bantry Bay Rd and found more asbestos.

In its letter to the owners, the authority stated the waste deposited on the block of land “is likely to be causing land pollution by degradation of land, resulting in actual or potential harm to human health”.

New clean-up orders were made and the landowners have until Friday, October 7, to warn the public of the presence of contaminated waste and remove the landfill impacted by asbestos.

The owners must provide a certificate to prove they have had a certified asbestos remover conduct work, and that they have a plan to remove asbestos if the EPA finds any more.

In the most recent clean-up notice, issued on September 7, the authority said the previous asbestos management plan did not “adequately satisfy all requirements” of the previous notice.

It also said the premises were “not free of all asbestos waste contrary to the clearance certificate provided”.

It said the authority “reasonably suspects that pollution incidents have occurred and are occurring at the premises in relation to the storage and deposit of waste, including asbestos waste”.

If the clean-up is not carried out, the landowners face fines of $250,000 each and a further $60,000 for each day the offence continues.

A plan to subdivide the land had been thwarted several times on environmental grounds since it first came to then-Warringah Council in 2007.

However, it was passed after a Land Environment Court appeal.

A report presented by Vigor Master to Warringah Council in May 2013 — as part of an application to subdivide one of the blocks — showed no signs of contamination.

Acting deputy general manager of the Northern Beaches Council, Andrew Pigott, said before being subdivided the site was pristine bushland.

It was later cleared and subsequently found to have been covered with contaminated fill.

He said the council was “very concerned about the contamination of this area”

CCTV catches deadly dump load 0:30 The City of Sydney is appealing for help identifying a truck driver who illegally dumped more than two tonnes of asbestos outside two pre-school centres. Contact: council@cityofsydney.nsw.gov.au