https://article.wn.com/view/2016/09/14/Deputy_Crashes_Cruiser_Near_School_While_Snorting_Lines_of_X/
10
1
A sheriff's deputy in West Virginia has resigned after he was discovered unresponsive, with drug

Click here for reuse options! Whistleblowers are not spies—and our government should not treat them as such. NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden appeared in New York City...

This story appears in ESPN The Magazine's Nov. 11 College Hoops Tip-Off. KIMBERLY WUNDRUM'S friends passed by the lilacs and lilies and other flowers that she loved, but it...

It’s autumn of 2010 and I’m standing in the exact spot where ten-year-old Kristine Mihelich was found dead as fucking winter in 1977, her newly plum-colored face a muted...

A West Virginia sheriff’s deputy has resigned after he passed out under the influence of Xanax and crashed his patrol car into an embankment at a local middle school....

Click here for reuse options! Investigating officers say the deputy could barely stand. A sheriff's deputy in West Virginia has resigned after he was discovered...

Justice Letter To US Lawmakers Promises 'Appropriate Steps As Expeditiously As Possible'

Hillary Clinton and the FBI: acrimony could leave US more divided than ever

Related News

The Stacks: How Peter Bogdanovich Shot 'The Last Picture Show' The director hauled a film crew to Larry McMurtry's home town of Archer City, Texas. Grover Lewis tagged along and wrote one of the best stories about moviemaking ever written. When Francis Ford Coppola first saw a screening of Peter Bogdanovich’s second movie, The Last Picture Show, he couldn’t believe the reception. The movie ended, credits rolled, and the audience stood and... The Daily Beast





Hallucinating Away a Heroin Addiction This junkie is about to begin a three-day, neo-African, sometimes-terrifying, ritualistic trip. Can it help her get clean? PART I It’s been 56 hours since Grace Bergere’s last shot of heroin—too long. Curled into a fetal position on an outdoor, candle-lit matt in Costa Rica, the 18-year-old trembles in fear. A petrified grimace wrinkles the white clay adorning her face. Her... The Daily Beast





Is It Bedtime for Benzos? “Bernard also laughed; after two grams of soma the joke seemed, for some reason, good. Laughed and then, almost immediately, dropped off to sleep.” — Aldous Huxley, Brave New World It’s been a tough few years for benzodiazepines, the pharmaceutical industry’s top-selling family of prescription drugs. Tough in every way, that is, except sales: Xanax remains the world’s most... Huffington Post





annual report (Genocea Biosciences Inc) (Source: Genocea Biosciences Inc ) Item 1. Business Unless the context requires otherwise, references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to 'Genocea', 'we', 'us' and 'our' refer to Genocea Biosciences, Inc. Overview We are a biopharmaceutical company that discovers and develops novel vaccines and immunotherapies to address diseases with significant unmet needs. We use our... Public Technologies



