http://www.nytimes.com/2016/10/05/world/europe/julian-assange-wikileaks-anniversary.html
84
8
Video

BERLIN — Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, promised on Tuesday to release “significant material” over the next 10 weeks about arms, Google, mass surveillance, oil, the United States election and war.

Speaking via a video link at a news conference in Berlin to mark a decade since the inception of WikiLeaks, Mr. Assange vowed that his organization would continue to provide a platform for the release of classified documents held by the United States and by other governments and institutions in positions of global power.

“We hope to be publishing every week for the next 10 weeks, we have on schedule, and it’s a very hard schedule, all the U.S. election-related documents to come out before Nov. 8,” said Mr. Assange, who made his announcement from the Ecuadorean Embassy in London, where he has been living since 2012. “Our upcoming series includes significant material on war, arms, oil, Google, the U.S. elections and myself.”

WikiLeaks used the occasion of its 10th anniversary to trumpet some of its prominent releases of information, including documents about the United States detention camp at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba; files about the wars in Iraq and in Afghanistan; United States diplomatic cables; and Democratic Party emails that were made public on the eve of the party’s convention in Philadelphia.

The remarks from Mr. Assange disappointed many followers of WikiLeaks in the United States, who had stayed up hoping to hear information relevant to the presidential election.

Although Mr. Assange promised to release such documents before the election on Nov. 8, he said, “If we are going to make a major publication, we don’t do it at 3 a.m.” in the United States.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He dismissed speculation that the documents related to the United States election would contain information intended to damage the candidacy of Hillary Clinton, the Democratic nominee. The idea that “we intend to harm Hillary Clinton, or I intend to harm Hillary Clinton, or I don’t like Hillary Clinton, all those are false,” Mr. Assange said.

Mr. Assange laughed when he was asked whether he felt any personal affinity for her Republican rival, Donald J. Trump, saying that he felt “personal affinity for all human beings.” He explained that he felt sorry for both Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Trump, given that “these are two people who are tormented by their ambitions.”

Mr. Assange had been scheduled to make the announcement from the balcony of the embassy where he has been staying since Ecuador granted him political asylum, but he changed that plan at the last minute because of security reasons. He declined to give further details about those concerns.

Mr. Assange sought refuge after Sweden said it wanted him for questioning on allegations of rape, an accusation that he has denied. He feared that if he were sent to Sweden, he would then be extradited to the United States to face espionage charges.