https://www.theguardian.com/australia-news/2016/sep/28/ms-dhus-death-in-custody-family-urge-wa-coroner-to-release-footage-of-her-final-hours
841
8
The family of Indigenous woman Ms Dhu have urged the Western Australian coroner to release CCTV footage of her final hours, saying it highlights broader issues about institutionalised racism in police and the health system.

The state coroner, Ros Fogliani, is due to hear an application on whether to release the footage at the central law courts in Perth on Wednesday.

Dhu, a 22-year-old Yamatji woman whose name is not used for cultural reasons, died in custody in Port Hedland, 1,650km north of Perth, on 4 August 2014.

Police officer who dropped Ms Dhu on concrete floor thought she was 'acting' Read more

She suffered from acute septicaemia caused by an infection in the bone of two broken ribs, allegedly injured in an altercation with her partner some weeks earlier.

Security footage of Dhu at the South Hedland police station and the South Hedland Health Campus between her arrest for $3,622 in unpaid fines on 2 August and her death 44 hours later was shown a number of times during a four-week inquest into her death.

It shows the distressing image of Dhu being handcuffed and dragged from her cell less than two hours before her death, because she could no longer stand up.

It also shows earlier clips of her crying in pain for more than half an hour while waiting to go to hospital, and another image of her being yanked into a sitting position by a police officer who then apparently slipped and dropped her, causing her head to hit the concrete cell floor.

In March, Fogliani refused to release the footage on the grounds it would be too distressing for Dhu’s family, despite Dhu’s family supporting the application for its release.



Last month, lawyers for Dhu’s primary next of kin filed a fresh application to release the footage exclusively to the ABC’s Four Corners program. Guardian Australia understands they have since broadened that application to release the footage to all media.

A number of media organisations, including Guardian Australia, have applied separately for the footage.

Dhu’s uncle, Shaun Harris, said he hoped Fogliani would heed the family’s wishes and release the footage.

Aboriginal deaths in custody: 25 years on, the vicious cycle remains Read more

“It is vital to show the people that yes, this really happened,” Harris said.

“From day one of the first inquest back in November, from the first seconds of that footage, you could see her limping and you could hear her moaning in pain.

“Yet they are trying to say that they didn’t know or didn’t think that she was in pain, when anyone could see that on the footage?”

At the inquest in March, a number of police witnesses said they believed Dhu was either faking or exaggerating her symptoms, and said they were shocked when they heard she had died.