http://telecom.economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/government-is-respectful-of-social-media-freedom-of-expression-says-prasad/54788998
80
8
India as a market presents a great opportunity for companies — not just for products and services but for hosting data centres, says. In an interview with ET, he says India is developing into an innovation hub with great opportunities around data analysis and mining. Prasad also talks about the need to balance key legislation and freedom of the internet, along with his strategy for Digital India and electronics manufacturing. Edited excerpts.Cybersecurity is indeed a matter of concern and we have to be very particular about it. The security establishment of India and we are working together. The prime minister has said that cybersecurity is a bloodless war. So we are reinforcing our systems, coming up with a centre for cybersecurity. We are also going into a big exercise of human resource development, training the police personnel, judges and appointing security auditors and having cybersecurity courses so that the whole ecosystem is ready. The world needs to come together more effectively on the issue of cybersecurity.During ICANN, I was very particular that while academia, civil society, industry are very important, on the issue of cybersecurity, the state will have to play a very crucial role. And the world community accepted my position in Morocco. And this has been my observation in all my world conferences, whether on internet or on communication, that on the issue of terrorism, the issue of the threat of cybersecurity, the government of the day has to play a very crucial role.I have always been emphasising upon these companies, please think of having your data here. Microsoft is going to launch its cybersecurity in Delhi on 21st, these are how things are changing. And I would urge upon these big companies, Microsoft and Google — I am happy they are led by Indians — India is a huge market also, so it is also in their interest to have a good data centre here.Having their data centre in India is a good business case for them. We have been conveying our views to them and this is an initiative we always undertake. And I am sure these big companies which have done well and I complement them, they will earnestly explore the idea of having their data centres in India.I can only tell you that after we undertake an audit of the cybersecurity issue, if there will be a need for reinforcing the IT legal architecture, we will go for it. As of now, it is going well. But the whole issue of real cyber offences, cybersecurity is there in the act itself. But if something more is needed, we will certainly do our best.If there is a structured response, we will look into it. But our government is very clear: we are quite respectful of social media, of freedom of expression, we encourage social media — we are very clear about it. There are certain security concerns which have to be seen objectively without compromising our commitment to freedom of media, including social media.I had a very big meeting with all the stakeholders. Our people have heard all their concerns and it will surely do well. This whole BPO scheme is designed to bridge the digital divide. Get openings in the areas which are not in the mainline such as call centres in small mofussil towns of India. The response is good. If something more is required, we are open to that.When I started this journey, I went to South Korea and other parts of the world. People were sceptical. But if in one year, 40 mobile manufacturing units can come, people are beginning to understand that India is certainly a huge market. There are 1billion-plus people hungry for good gadgets. India is home to 27 crore smartphones, likely to become 50 crore in the next two-three years. ‘Make in India’ is also designed to satisfy the Indian market, which is a very thriving market, but leveraging on the Indian market, you also export outside. Then you get the benefit of both. I am quite sure that the new ecosystem which is going to come about will be used and tapped for exporting outside, be it in the Asian market, South Asian market, ASEAN countries, Gulf countries, etc.Port facilities are being improved, ports are being made more enabled, there is an electronic cluster scheme, a dozen plus have been approved. There is also contemplation to have big mega zones to promote manufacturing, these are coastal zones…Our focus is that India becomes a big centre for electronics manufacturing and also exports. All the big brands of the world are in India and all this happened only in the last two years, because India today is scaling up so many points in the ease of doing business and so many world reports are showing India as a big emerging economy. And when the world is under stress, India is notching up 7% growth — these are all indications of that process.We will address those concerns. I am very sure there will be a resolution. Those things (how much investment limit) can be worked on. But as a concept and as an investment scheme, MSIPS will stay.I am very consciously making that comment. As a concept for incentives and the kind of results which have come (from it), MSIPS will stay. One of the biggest agendas of this government is Digital India. What have been the key achievements so far?Digital India is designed to make India a digitally empowered society. I have always said that Digital India is more for the poor and the underprivileged. Under Digital India we are doing four things — creating digital infrastructure, secondly, creating digital delivery of services, thirdly, making India a digitally informed society, and lastly, promoting digital literacy and also promoting digital— related manufacturing.Indian IT sector has notched up exports of $108 billion, they have added large number of employment, they have received the largest FDI, they are today in 80 countries. And all those who are thinking of creating barriers, my message to them is: When Indian IT companies go abroad, they pay huge taxes there, create employment and revenue of billions of dollars, benefitting their own companies and the country on a whole. What is more important is that India is becoming a good hub of innovation. India today has a big footprint of Facebook, Twitter and all other services. Because I also head Aadhaar, we have 105 crore Aadhaar, verifiable digital identities, kept under safe conditions, protected by an act passed by the Parliament.Almost 440 crore Internet users…and 50% is mobile-based. We have added mobile phones in the last two years equal to the population of Italy and France. We have launched schemes such as e-health, e-scholarship where 1crore students are linked, e-mandi for kisans, digital lockers, Jeevan Pramaan for pensions, MyGov for citizen engagement, etc. The latest thing what we have launched is the government marketplace, where all the government procurement can come online. Digital governance is good governance. We saved Rs 36,000 crore by linking Jan Dhan accounts to their Aadhaar numbers under the Pahal Scheme. At this year’s trade fair, Digital India will be the theme. It will showcase the whole ecosystem as to how life is changing because of Digital India, ‘mera desh badal raha hai, digital ho raha hai,’ from farmers…to students, everyone is getting impacted. To me, the biggest success is people who are on the margins. Plus India will become a big market for data analysis, given our population.Our role is that of an enabler. We gave 4G licences to all —let the best compete. Let consumers be happy. There is an enabling atmosphere, FDI is completely free, innovation we are encouraging, electronic development fund we have. There are income tax exemptions for startups, etc. So we are creating an enabling atmosphere. And whatever is needed, we are open. We have encouraged open source in government procurement. We have a huge programme of Digital Rath, which has about 500 districts and thousands and thousands of villages. So from literacy to awakening to manufacturing to new policies and products, we are doing everything. As I always say, Digital India is ideology neutral, it is politics neutral, Digital India is centre-state neutral, Digital India is only India positive. And I am very happy Digital India is being talked about the world over, from President Obama to most global leaders. It is a larger decision taken by the Narendra Modi government to make India a digitally informed society for growth empowerment.If in two years and few months we have achieved this, I can tell you this momentum will become faster and faster and we are quite open for new products. I see government processes coming online, the entire ease of doing business —registrations online, clearances online, doing services online. From delivery of services to opening up of decision-making process, it becomes a natural process.I am quite open to suggestions. I can only say that I am satisfied with the momentum. But I want it to become more pronounced, more proactive, more accelerated. My idea is that from healthcare to education, how can we deliver good healthcare through digital connect? The stakeholders need to come, the hospitals need to come. In digital education, how can we leverage experienced teachers sharing their experience online? We have opened so many IITs, they are doing well, but we may not have the best faculty as we have in IIT Kharagpur, Kanpur or Mumbai.How can we leverage the experience of a good teacher for courses available online? These are some of things that always strike me that we need to work on — digital healthcare, in particular. What I see is the kind of aspiration that Digital India has raised on the rural side. The phenomenal success of ecommerce — we have malls and shops in cities, not in villages. They also want good jewellery, dresses, mobiles and ecommerce is satisfying that aspirational side. As they say, a big rural market exists in India. And therefore Digital India is there to satisfy that rural urge and also create a big commercial opening.