http://www.msn.com/en-in/news/other/karan-johar-release-in-trouble-some-cinema-owners-say-no-to-pak-actors/ar-AAiWcKx
84
8
< PREVIOUS SLIDE SLIDE 1 of 6 NEXT SLIDE > © Movietalkies

Mumbai: Days before Karan Johar's widely anticipated film 'Ae Dil Hai Mushkil' is to release, some theatre owners have said films starring Pakistani actors should not be screened given "public sentiment" over terror attacks from across the border including in Uri last month.

The Cinema Owners and Exhibitors Association of India and Censor Board Chief Pahlaj Nihalani - who is a member of the association - have emphasised that there is no ban on any film.

Mr Johar's mega film prominently stars Pakistan's Fawad Khan, who has a sizeable fan following in India.

"We have decided that these films (with Pak actors) should not be screened in Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka and Goa... keeping in mind patriotic feelings and national interests," Nitin Datar, the chief of the cinema owners' association said after a meeting.

The association is largely linked to single screen theatres, not multiplexes, and has members in Gujarat, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Goa.



Mr Johar's film with Ranbir Kapur, Aishwarya Rai and Anushka Sharma in lead roles is scheduled for a Diwali release.

Another film that could be affected is Ritesh Sidhwani's "Raees" starring Shah Rukh Khan and Pakistani actor Mahira Khan, which is to release in January.

© Movie Talkies

Pahlaj Nihalali has criticised the cinema owners' call though he is a member. "Films already shot before changed relations between India and Pakistan should not be affected. Once cleared by censor board, the association does not have the right to ban or take decision not to screen a film," said the Censor Board chief.

There have been demands by some groups that besides strong diplomatic moves against Pakistan, India should also snap cultural and film ties amid tension over last month's Uri terror attack - in which 19 soldiers were killed - and the army's surgical strikes targeting terrorist staging areas in Pakistan Occupied Kashmir.

Last month, a producers' body in Mumbai passed a resolution banning Pakistanis from working in Indian films. In retaliation, Pakistani theatre owners decided to top screening Indian films.

Parties like Raj Thackeray's Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) have threatened to block Mr Johar's film if he does not drop Fawad Khan.

Last week, Mr Khan said in a Facebook post: ""As a father of two little children, I pray and wish like many others that together we can build and live in a more peaceful world. I believe we owe it to our children who will shape our tomorrow."

Watch: Amitabh Bachchan denies commenting on Fawad Khan