http://www.politico.eu/article/danish-euroskeptic-mep-investigated-for-fraud-morten-messerschmidt/
10
1
Morten Messerschmidt of right-wing Danish People's Party in Copenhagen | Jens Noergaard Larsen/AFP via Getty Images Organizations linked to Danish Euroskeptic MEP investigated for fraud Anti-fraud agencies are probing the hard-right politician, who denies misuse of EU funds.

The EU’s anti-fraud agency OLAF is investigating two organizations connected to Morten Messerschmidt, a Danish hard-right, Euroskeptic MEP, according to Danish newspaper Ekstra Bladet.

A spokesman for the agency confirmed that it is currently investigating misuse of funds by the European Parliament but would not confirm or deny specific cases.

The embattled Danish People’s Party MEP — the vice chair and chief whip of the European Parliament’s European Conservatives and Reformist Group — is also being investigated by Danish anti-fraud authorities, the paper reported.

In August his former colleague, the MEP Rikke Karlsson, accused him of identity theft after she had been named without her consent to the board of a pan-European party called Movement for a Europe of Liberties and Democracy (known as MELD) at a 2014 meeting at which she wasn’t present.

Messerschmidt signed the relevant forms on Karlsson’s behalf, but her name was spelled incorrectly and her nationality given as Lithuanian, not Danish, according to documents obtained by Ekstra Bladet.

Messerschmidt rejected the accusations, saying in a television interview in August that Karlsson had “nodded to becoming [a member] of the board.” He also said there had been several conversations with Danish People’s Party MEPs about the funds, though he wasn’t sure he could show documents to prove that.

Karlsson left the Danish People’s Party — the country’s second largest — in October last year after, she said, Messerschmidt refused to give her information about MELD’s 2014 accounts.

Messerschmidt responded by calling her “a girl” who was in over her head after arriving in Brussels from a small town in Denmark.

“It seems to me, more than anything, that she’s a somewhat confused girl who … cannot understand what is happening around her,” he said, according to media reports.

Earlier this year, the European Parliament demanded that Messerschmidt repay around €400,000 in EU funds granted to MELD that was spent on political campaigning in Denmark and on a “golden handshake” to a party consultant in seeming contravention of EU rules. Messerschmidt has refused to repay the €170,000 given to the consultant as severance pay, which he claims is not his responsibility. The institution is awaiting legal advice on how to recover the funds.

Messerschmidt resigned as leader of his three-strong delegation of the People’s Party MEPs at the end of August in response to Karlsson’s accusations, handing over the reins to his 28-year-old former assistant Anders Vistisen. Vistisen was also the treasurer of MELD and has repeatedly denied accusations of wrongdoing.

The MEP campaigned against the fraudulent use of EU funds. Every day for almost two months during 2010, he published what he said was an example of “fraud and misuse of tax money by the EU” on a blog hosted by the newspaper Jyllands-Posten. “The list is unfortunately very long but I’ve picked a few examples which show the glass palaces and the power brokers in Brussels,” he wrote.

This story has been updated to include a comment from OLAF and to clarify that Ekstra Bladet reported that it is the organizations connected to Messerschmidt that are being investigated.