https://article.wn.com/view/2016/10/11/Actress_Shailene_Woodley_arrested_during_pipeline_protest/
84
8
" they grabbed me by my jacket and said that I wasn't allowed to continue... and they have giant guns and batons and zip ties and they are not letting me go "

Her arrest at a construction site happened as she was broadcasting the protest, which

US actress Shailene Woodley has been arrested during a protest in North Dakota against a huge oil pipeline project that will cross four states.

As The Divergent Series: Allegiant prepares to hit theaters, actress Shailene Woodley opens up about everything from keeping in shape to play Divergent‘s Tris to how her...

Director Josh Boone and author John Green celebrate the film's upcoming release at the Ziegfield Theater in New York City with Laura Dern, Sam Trammell, Willem Dafoe and...

While Lionsgate is working out what they want to do with the flopping Divergent franchise, its star, Shailene Woodley, is moving on with new projects and a greater presence...

"Divergent" actress Shailene Woodley was arrested on Monday while protesting the controversial Dakota Access Pipeline in North Dakota. The actress was charged with criminal...

Shailene Woodley is grateful for her family. The Snowden star is opening up about how growing up with a psychologist father and counselor mother shaped her perspective in a...

If Clinton wins, more in GOP say no to 9 on Supreme Court

Hillary Clinton and the FBI: acrimony could leave US more divided than ever

Related News

‘Divergent’ Disaster: Shailene Woodley Jumps Ship The Divergent franchise once promised to launch Shailene Woodley to fame in much the same way that The Hunger Games has done for Jennifer Lawrence, but that was before the latest film in the franchise, 2016’s Allegiant, was so poorly received by both film critics and fans. No longer interested in pursuing the Divergent franchise on the big screen, Lionsgate has set their sights... Inquisitr





Shailene Woodley Is Hollywood’s It Girl Next Door If Jennifer Lawrence is the girl you want to be, then Shailene Woodley is the girl that you are—and her gift is for making that person just as inviting as the idealized alternative. Shailene Woodley has had to answer more questions about Jennifer Lawrence than practically anyone in Hollywood. Maybe including Lawrence herself. Her answer varies. Sometimes she’s flattered by the... The Daily Beast





My Week Living Like Shailene Woodley While the daily customs of most of our celebrities are cloaked in mystery, Shailene Woodley is extraordinarily public about her habits. It is the habits themselves that are extremely mysterious. In every interview, Woodley seems to mention a new and usual habit, often intimidating in its earthliness. There's clay eating. Oil pulling. Mushroom-tea slurping. Tanning one's vagina.... New York Magazine





Theo James Sees a Strong Woman in Shailene Woodley and Likes his ‘Divergent: Allegiant Co-Star for her Confidence Amid rumors that Theo James is reportedly falling for co-star Shailene Woodley while they are currently filming the two-part third movie of the “Divergent” trilogy, it’s basically normal work for the two stars. According to a report in Yibada, Ruth Kearney, the girlfriend of the 30-year-old British actor, is getting worried about the working chemistry between her beau and... Master Herald



