http://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/3479135/posts
874
8
Skip to comments.

CBS, NBC Hype 'GOP Civil War,' Predict Loss of House and Senate

Newsbusters ^ | Oct 11, 2016 | Nicholas Fondacaro

Posted on by upchuck

Following the leaked tape of GOP presidential candidate Donald Trump making lewd comments about women over the weekend, members of the Republican Party started to distance themselves. And NBC seemed quite giddy about it as they kicked off NBC Nightly News Monday with “Civil War” emblazoned across the screen. As if he was announcing the latest Marvel blockbuster Anchor Lester Holt declared, “With Donald Trump's fortunes fading over his lewd comments about women, a GOP civil war has broken out.”

“Tonight, abandonment and astonishment as the country's top Republican walks away from the top of his ticket,” hyped NBC’s Hallie Jackson at the start of her report. She would go on to parade out naysayers to declare the GOP was in freefall:

DAVID WASSERMAN: It's time for Republicans to hit the panic button, because trump could drag them into the political abyss… BENJAMIN GINSBERG: Each member, each candidate is running for him or herself. And that may include embracing Donald Trump or not embracing Donald Trump.

Jackson even claimed, “Our new polling shows more voters want Democrats to control congress by the widest margin since 2013.” The NBC reporter lied and stated that the Republican National Committee was “silent” on Republicans denouncing Trump’s comment.

But according the CBS’s Julianna Goldman that is far from reality, “One group that is sticking by Trump is the Republican National Committee, which also said today that it will still provide money and other resources to the Republican nominee.” But Goldman’s CBS Evening News report hyped the “GOP civil war” just as much as Jackson’s.

Goldman seemed almost excited as she went into detail about how little Democrats needed to do to win back control of both Congressional chambers. “Democrats need 30 seats to take control of the House and just five seats to win back the Senate,” she said, ignoring the historical difficulty of taking a seat from an incumbent Senator.

The CBS reporter touted how democrats were pouncing and running ads attacking Republicans for not ditching Trump sooner. She even went so far as to showcase an ad against Ohio Republican Senator Rob Portman crafted by his opponent Ted Strickland. “Where did you stand on Joe McCarthy? George Wallace? This is one of those moments,” the ad said, “History will judge Rob Portman a coward,” far from an impartial reporting of the ad campaign.

[Transcripts at the link.]



TOPICS:

Crime/Corruption

Culture/Society

Government

Politics/Elections

KEYWORDS:

2016issues

liberalmedia

partisanmedia

The lame streams are trying but will fail. The Trump Train will roll over them.



To: upchuck

Purity BOOJIT !



by 2 posted onby knarf (I say things that are true .. I have no proof .. but they're true .. and it pisses people off)

The most important thing is to not elect Hillary and protect the Supreme Court.



To: upchuck

The media in this country is insane. Probably why more Americans then ever are tuning them out: http://freerepublic.com/focus/f-bloggers/3469735/posts



To: upchuck

Chuckie Todd says Senate is gone, might not hold the house.He said same thing 2 years ago



To: upchuck

And if he doesn’t they may just get a REAL mother ####ing civil war. We can’t go to bed and so “oh well” this time guys. Let’s PRAY Trump wins. If she comes out ahead, show evidence of fraud and refuse to concede. #### it.



by 6 posted onby dp0622 (IThe only thing an upper crust conservative hates more than a liberal is a middle class conservative)

To: dp0622

And pray that the Democrats do no secure one or both chambers of the Congress. With one chamber they can stall a Pres. Trump. With both, they will try to impeach him from day one.



To: upchuck

DAVID WASSERMAN: It's time for Republicans to hit the panic button, because trump could drag them into the political abyss WRONG! Paul Ryan has already dragged them into the political abyss. Every down ballot Republican who does not support Trump is now in peril. And deserves to be!



by 8 posted onby pgkdan (The Silent MajorityStands With TRUMP!)

To: Army Air Corps

Trump is one to go STRAIGHT to the people and let them know dems are holding up progress. They wont fold as easily as the GOPe but they will eventually. Thought The Great One couldn’t get the budget cuts he wanted way back in the ‘80s.



by 9 posted onby dp0622 (IThe only thing an upper crust conservative hates more than a liberal is a middle class conservative)

To: upchuck

CBS and NBC have joined CNN as an agent for the Clinton campaign. I haven’t watched any of the three for years, and won’t. Dragging journalism into the mud is their interest.



To: Army Air Corps

And pray that the Democrats do no secure one or both chambers of the Congress. With one chamber they can stall a Pres. Trump. With both, they will try to impeach him from day one. And do you think that Speaker Ryan will be any more cooperative than a democrat speaker? The 'party' that controls congress is meaningless because the notion of a two party system is a myth. A joke. A fraud.



by 11 posted onby pgkdan (The Silent MajorityStands With TRUMP!)

To: upchuck

Nothing scares career politicians in the republican party more than winning the house, senate, and white house. That would mean a reconciliation of private policy speeches with the public ones they tell the sheeple.



To: upchuck

They are working hard in their PsyOps campaign to dispirit Republican voters. The DNC knows that if Trump is elected to the Presidency, then their only hope is to capture one or both chambers of Congress. They have whipped the squishiness of about two dozen elected officials into a "Civil War in the GOP!" When about 90% of the congress critters have not denounced the head of the ticket, that is hardly a Civil War within the party.



To: upchuck

I do want Paul Ryan to lose to the Democrat I admit.



by 14 posted onby MNDude (God is not a Republican, but Satan is certainly a Democrat.)

To: dp0622

That was a different Democrat party, my FRiend. There were Democrats back then who wanted entitlement reform and balanced budgets. That was when you still had some Democrats who were anti-Communist. We are dealing with a different animal, now.



To: TakebackGOP

The most important thing is to not elect Hillary and protect the Supreme Court. Absolutely. Tagline.



by 16 posted onby upchuck (On the issue of SCOTUS alone, Trump must win in November.)

To: pgkdan

You can replace a speaker, it can be done. You are going to have more leverage with even a pliable Pubbie than with a Democrat who will try to coopt you every step of the way and have the full backing of every dirty trick outfit in the DNC.



To: knarf

"Purity BOOJIT !" Sounds like "Bill the Cat" lingo - what does it mean?



by 18 posted onby Psalm 73 ("Gentlemen, you can't fight in here - this is the War Room".)

To: Psalm 73

pure bullshit to those in Rio Linduhhh



by 19 posted onby knarf (I say things that are true .. I have no proof .. but they're true .. and it pisses people off)

To: upchuck

If the GOPe loses the House and Senate, it’s because they stood athwart the Trump train tracks. And really, so what? Clear out the cucks, President Trump vetoes everything for 2 years and brings real Americans in for 2018 to primary the cucks.



To: From The Deer Stand

BOMBSHELL from @OreillyFactor: "Media organizations have actually put out, if you support Trump, your career is done here." #BigLeagueTruth FWIW, I had this video paused in one window and when I returned the video was no longer available. I opened another window and found another source where the video played while I typed this comment.

If this clip remains up ...go see it before it is pulled from this twitter link:

To: knarf

"pure bullshit to those in Rio Linduhhh" "AAACK, THBFT....!"



by 22 posted onby Psalm 73 ("Gentlemen, you can't fight in here - this is the War Room".)

To: Army Air Corps

You can replace a speaker, it can be done. You are going to have more leverage with even a pliable Pubbie than with a Democrat who will try to coopt you every step of the way and have the full backing of every dirty trick outfit in the DNC. I don't buy it anymore. Trump is going to fighting as an outsider no matter which party controls congress. With a handful of noticable exceptions, the two party's are just opposite side of the same dirty devalued coin.



by 23 posted onby pgkdan (The Silent MajorityStands With TRUMP!)

To: upchuck

What cares? What have they done that a Rat congress would not do?



To: upchuck

Heard some of this baloney on the TODAY show while I was shaving this morning. The stridency in their voices just was really desperation. Throw in the obviously managed “polling” that shows H-> with a “double-digit lead” and it just gets laughable.



by 25 posted onby T-Bird45 (It feels like the seventies, and it shouldn't.)

To: TakebackGOP

Dam right!



To: upchuck

There’s a disease in the Republican establishment. The only way to cure is it the Trump Effect.



by 27 posted onby McGruff (Have you seen the new movie, Weekend at Hillary's?)

To: upchuck

The american people came out in masse during the last 3 election cycles to rebuke Obama. There is no love gained for Obama this time around either!



by 28 posted onby rwoodward ("god, guns and more ammo")

To: upchuck

Ignore all media Get Out The Vote



by 29 posted onby Nifster (Ignore all polls. Get Out The Vote)

To: Nifster

Ignore all media. Get Out The Vote Absolute truth BUMP! Trump's win must be large enough to overcome the RAT voter fraud we all know is coming.



by 30 posted onby upchuck (On the issue of SCOTUS alone, Trump must win in November.)

Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works.

FreeRepublic , LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794

FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson