http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/explorers-ship-trapped-arctic-ice-9021803
81
8
The Maud has been raised after 86 years

An explorer's ship trapped in Arctic ice for 86 years has finally been freed and raised to the surface.

The Maud, which belonged to Norwegian polar explorer Roald Amundsen, sank in 1930 in Canada's remote Cambridge Bay.

The ship was launched in 1917, when Amundsen smashed a block of ice against the bow and proclaimed: "You are made for the ice."

His aim was to get Maud deliberately stuck in the ice pack above the Bering Strait and drift across the Arctic Ocean.

www.maudreturnshome.no The ship was launched in 1917 by Roald Amundsen

The ship was equipped with scientific apparatus for making meteorological, geophysical, and oceanographic observations.

But Maud was sold by creditors in 1925 to the Hudson Bay Company and ended its days as a floating warehouse and wireless radio station before sinking.

www.maudreturnshome.no The ship sank in Cambridge Bay in Canada in 1930

The Maud Returns Home project, which raised the wreck, aims to bring the ship back to Norway to install it in a museum in Vollen, where it was originally built.

The team of self-taught divers and engineers has spent five summers working to raise her from the water.

They could only work between July and September when the ice melted and the outdoor temperatures rose to 10C-15C.

www.maudreturnshome.no The Maud is set to be taken back to Norway

The operation was led by Jan Wanggaard, who is a Norwegian artist, a builder of Viking longships and the 1980 world windsurfing champion, reports The Times.

The team dived down to the seabed and squeezed airbags beneath the Maud.

She was then gently eased out of her resting place and on to a barge.

As the water is so cold that no microbes can live long enough to devour the oak timbers, the Maud's frame is still more or less as strong as it was when she was first built.

www.maudreturnshome.no Tons of mud had to be cleaned out from the rooms of the old ship

After raising Maud, the project had to dig out tons of mud from every room inside the old ship.

The Maud will be left to dry out so that it can lose some weight before heading back to Norway, which will take at least two summers of sailing.

www.maudreturnshome.no The Maud Returns Home project hopes to install the ship in a museum in Vollen

“For me, she is a very, very beautifully built ship,” Mr Wanggaard said.

“She’s the result of 2,000 years of boat-building history in Norway.

"She was built incredibly strong to withstand the forces of the ice and in this way she shows the best craftsmanship you can imagine.

"She still shows a lot of power and strength and body.”