http://news2.onlinenigeria.com/news/general/522622-boko-haram-spokesman-arrested-in-borno-senator%E2%80%99s-residence.html
84
8
Home | News | General | Boko Haram spokesman arrested in Borno senator’s residence

– The self-confessed spokesman of Boko Haram, Ali Sanda Umar Konduga (a.ka Al-Zawahiri) has been re-arrested

– Konduga was sentenced to three years imprisonment without option of fine but was released last week

– He was rearrested at the Maiduguri residence of Senator Mohammed Ali Ndume

The self -confessed spokesman of Boko Haram, Ali Sanda Umar Konduga (a.ka Al-Zawahiri) has been re-arrested at the Maiduguri residence of Senator Mohammed Ali Ndume.

Ndume is the senator representing Borno South Senatorial District. He is also the Senate leader.

Senator Ali Ndume is currently in Saudi Arabia for the 2016 Hajj

According to Vanguard, Konduga was sentenced to three years imprisonment without option of fine but was released last week.

Sources quoted in the report said Konduga was identified, beaten and rearrested on Wednesday, September 14 after he sneaked into the Senator Ndume’s house for the third time this week.

READ ALSO: Boko Haram new video: Army uncovers conspiracy

“He kept on coming to the senator’s house purposely to apologize to the immediate family for indicting Ndume, who was charged for providing Konduga with politicians’ phone numbers and not disclosing information to authorities under Nigeria’s Terrorism Prevention Act,” a source said.

Konduga was arraigned before an Abuja High Court along with Ndume, whom he (Konduga) said was sponsoring him to undertake Boko Haram activities.

Ndume had pleaded not guilty to charges of passing classified information to an unauthorised person and of criminal intimidation.

Konduga’s family members had however insisted that he (Konduga)is mentally unstable.

He was said to have sneaked into Ndume’s house a day to Sallah insisting he wanted to see and apologize to the senator. Ndume is currently in Saudi Arabia for the 2016 Hajj exercise.

“When the Maigadi (Gate man) accosted Konduga that the senator was not in the house, requested to see Justice Aisha Ndume, one of the senator’s wife, but was asked to come back the following day.

“As luck will have it, Konduga revisited the house on Wednesday at exactly 4pm, where he was identified by some Ndume’s close associates, who accompanied the senator to the Federal High Court, Abuja then.

“Policemen in charge of G.R.A police station were alerted and swooped into action leading to the rearrest of Konduga. He is now in police custody, while Senator Ndume have been informed” the sources said.

Senator Ndume however confirmed the rearrest of Konduga in his Maiduguri residence by the police while speaking to Vanguard on the phone from Saudi Arabia.

READ ALSO: EXPOSED: There is a big conspiracy going on with Boko Haram, Buratai

Last week, Ndume warned that Nigeria might have a larger crisis on its hands if all stakeholders failed to do something urgent on the malnutrition being experienced among children who are Boko Haram victims in the North east.

He made the comment raised at a cocktail organised to mark the official inauguration of ‘Get Involved Initiative’, a pet project of the wife of the president, Hajiya Aisha Buhari.

Rate this article 0

CLICK HERE TO READ MORE FROM: General