http://finance.yahoo.com/news/ascent-launches-hosted-solutions-offerings-164600200.html
80
8
DUBAI, United Arab Emirates, Oct. 11, 2016 /PRNewswire/ -- Ascent Technology Consulting, a leading Enterprise Software Product company has announced the latest version release of AUTOBCM© Plus Business Continuity Software which will be offered to global clients as Software as a Service (SaaS).

Logo - http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20161011/427325LOGO

Ascentʻs BCM Business Vertical offers Resilience Solutions for all BCM requirements- Consulting, Training and BCM Software. Many leading corporations in Middle East, Africa and Asia have testified Ascent as a trusted BCM partner for support extending by our team during such engagements.

AutoBCM© 2.0 Plus is web based multilingual Software offered as SaaS (Software as a Service), to manage all the Business continuity Management Life Cycle activities.

The Research shows that Automating the Business continuity process Increases confidence regarding organisational resilience capability and an ability to produce enterprise-wide views immediately and accurately in a major disruption compared to the spreadsheet and word processing approach (typically a labour-intensive effort with limited data capability). "Organization have experienced a remarkable cost savings from 50% to 400%, using a functionally-rich AutoBCM software tool compared to a Word or Excel based approach," said Dr Binduu Rathore, MD Ascent.

AUTOBCM© Plus is built on latest Java Platform, simple to deploy, easy to use, very affordable and highly robust. It is an intelligent solution meant for new age BCM practitioner for companies of all sizes.

AutoBCM SaaS offering considerably reduces Implementation time and provides seamless access to AutoBCM via a secure private cloud network with ease of technical set up and it is highly affordable. This hosted solution is a preferred choice for organizations that hesitate to put a CAPEX investment into such BCM related initiatives.

The new version of Ascent business continuity planning and management software supports full life cycle of the ISO 22301 business continuity standard as well as various other regional standards.

AUTOBCM plus provides built-in module for automated mass notification and can also interface directly to your existing mass notification system to facilitate your incident response. Keeping pace with the 'always-on' business model, Ascent Technology provides a guaranteed 99.9 percent uptime SLA.

Ascent AutoBCM Software will be available globally including India, Middle East, Africa- Kenya, Zambia, Malaysia, Singapore, UAE and USA.

About Ascent

Ascent Technology Consulting is a niche software solution and service company, specialized in BCM Automation & Real-Time reconciliation solutions, catering to the business needs of global Banking and Financial Industry.

Ascent BCM Software is an end-to-end Automation, which takes care of the complete BCM Lifecycle and it has a Multi-Lingual Capability to address client needs in Arabic and other languages. The project team has extensive experience in BCM projects and has executed several Consulting & Software Automation engagements worldwide of similar nature.

Media Contacts:

Ascent Technology Consulting

PO BOX 450 576. Dubai, UAE,

Dr. Binduu Rathore

Phone: +971 4 369 5306

Ascent Resilience Solutions Pvt ltd

PO BOX 500082, Hyderabad, India ,

Mr. Kundan Shekhawat

Phone: +91 40 23331739

Email -info@ascentitgroup.com

www.ascentitgroup.com

www.AutoBCM.com

Related Images

image1.png

image2.png

This content was issued through the press release distribution service at Newswire.com. For more info visit: http://www.newswire.com

To view the original version on PR Newswire, visit:http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/ascent-launches-hosted-solutions-offerings-to-automate-and-accelerate-business-continuity-management-300342751.html