http://baltimore.cbslocal.com/2016/10/10/new-light-shed-in-death-of-an-army-private-and-mother/
84
8
SEVERN, Md. (WJZ)– Twenty-four-year-old Karyln Ramirez, an army private stationed at Fort Meade, was found shot to death in her Severn home. Now more than a year later, authorities make a big break in the investigation.

The FBI and Anne Arundel County Police have been working non-stop for more than a year on this investigation — one that’s had very few answers until Monday.

Ramirez had just become a new mother. The murder rocked the entire state and for the past year was labeled a mystery.

“It’s a heartbreaking case, that a lot of people can relate to and feel for,” said Jacklyn Davis of the Anne Arundel County Police.

In August 2015, an open door at Ramirez’s home in Anne Arundel county led police to a gruesome discovery.

Ramirez was found dead in her townhouse along Millstone Court in Severn. Inside, authorities say it was a heartbreaking scene.

Ramirez was shot to death on the floor with her 5-month old next to her unharmed.

“I thought I heard something, at the beginning I thought it was firecrackers maybe,” said one neighbor.

For 13 months, Anne Arundel County detectives and the FBI never stopped searching for answers.

“We put a lot of time and effort into this,” said Davis.

Just days ago, Ramirez’s husband, Maliek Kearney and his girlfriend, Dolores Delgado were indicted for the slaying and tracked down in Texas..

According to the indictment, the duo traveled from South Carolina to Maryland back in August of 2015 to carry out the murder.

“A lot of things had to happen for this to fall into place, a lot of evidence had to be sorted through, most of it being electronic,” said Davis.

Justice for Ramirez’s family and a little girl who only got to spend months with her mom.

“This poor baby girl now has to grow up without a mother, but we’re very thankful that when she grows up that the people who did this are now in jail,” said Davis.

According to the Army Times, Kearney was also in the army, stationed at joint base San Antonio, Fort Sam Houston.

If convicted, the two face life in prison. Prosecutors are seeking to have both Kearney and Delgado returned to Maryland.

Follow @CBSBaltimore on Twitter and like WJZ-TV | CBS Baltimore on Facebook