http://www.tribune.net.ph/nation/cpp-mulls-to-declare-unilateral-ceasefire
84
8
The Communist Party of the Philippines-New People’s Army (CPP-NPA) mulled to declare a unilateral ceasefire yesterday in anticipation of the peace talks between them and the government set in Oslo, Norway next week.

“To further boost peace negotiations, the CPP is set to issue over the next few days a unilateral declaration of ceasefire to the New People’s Army and the people’s militias,” the CPP Information Bureau said in a statement yesterday.

The communist forces’ truce promise is apparently a belated reciprocation to President Duterte’s first move to declare a unilateral ceasefire during his State of the Nation Address (Sona) that didn’t actually last for a week after the NPA launched an ambuscade in Davao del Norte that killed one militiaman from the side of state security forces.

Furthermore, the Reds also said that, after their apparent “glitch” with President Duterte, they are willing to strengthen their alliance and friendship with the self-proclaimed socialist Malacañang occupant.

“The CPP foresees continuing struggle and alliance with the Duterte regime as the Filipino people are confronted daily with problems of joblessness, landlessness, rising costs of living, low wages and income, militarization and so on,” they explained.

Meanwhile, consistent to the President’s vigilant stance in dealing with the military operations of the CPP-NPA, Presidential Peace Adviser Jesus Dureza refrained from promising any truce reciprocation from the government’s side.

“Will cross the bridge when we get there,” Dureza told the Tribune in a text message.

Meanwhile, it seems that the CPP-NPA’s negotiating arm, the National Democratic Front (NDF), is relying on the support of the Royal Norwegian Government (RNG) to accommodate their panel’s trip to Oslo in a few days for the formal resumption of the peace talks between the Philippine government and the communist rebels.

This was confirmed by no less than Dureza who, in a text message to Malacañang reporters, even joked about the Left’s being lucky as the RNG is set to “picking up (the NDF’s) bills.”

Whether kidding or not, Dureza made the impression that there’s no need to further scrutinize the Reds’ expenses anymore.

NDF lawyer Edre Olalia, in a separate text message, seemingly implied that the Reds’ travel expenditures to Norway is a non-issue after all since they are accordingly not the government and as if they’re immuned from the public’s curiosity and demands from transparency.

Olalia, however, reiterated that the NDF’s deal with RNG has long been discussed and that, as a matter of fact, the currently detained NDF leaders who were allowed to post bail are having a hard time to gather funds to bankroll their temporary release.

Meanwhile, despite technically being “threats to security,” all the NDF panel members that will be allowed to go out temporarily from detention will be given “safe conduct” passes and that their exit from the Philippines will be expedited.

“The President instructed the Bureau of Immigration and Deportation and the Department of Foreign Affairs to assist the NDF consultants who will be traveling to Oslo, Norway over the weekend for the formal talks slated for Monday next week, Aug. 22,” government peace panel member Angela Librado-Trinidad said in a statement.