http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/U/US_CAMPAIGN_2016_THE_LATEST?SITE=AP&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT&CTIME=2016-09-14-17-28-12
10
1
WASHINGTON (AP) -- The Latest on the U.S. presidential race (all times EDT):

2:30 p.m.

President Barack Obama will spend the final day before the election campaigning for Hillary Clinton in New Hampshire.

Clinton's campaign says Obama will hold a get-out-the-vote rally for Clinton on Monday afternoon. The campaign hasn't announced where in New Hampshire the event will be held.

Clinton has been polling ahead of Trump in most polls in New Hampshire, but Clinton has put a renewed focus in the closing days on shoring up Democratic-leaning states.

Obama has a campaign stop planned for Clinton every day from now until Election Day - with one exception. On Saturday, he will rest.

---

2:25 p.m.

Mike Pence is honoring the two police officers killed in Iowa with a moment of silence.

The Republican vice presidential nominee referenced Donald Trump in saying, "As my running mate said this morning, an attack on those who keep us safe is an attack on us all."

Pence noted that his uncle was a police officer, saying "police officers have always been my heroes."

Pence is addressing a rally in Mesa, Arizona. He noted that Hillary Clinton will also be campaigning in the state later Wednesday.

He said, "I'm sure she'll show up with that campaign of insults" against Trump.

---

2:05 p.m.

Donald Trump is urging some early voters for Hillary Clinton to change their ballots for him. But it's unlikely enough will heed his call to affect the presidential race.

Trump urged early voters in Wisconsin, Minnesota, Pennsylvania and Michigan on Tuesday to change their ballots for him if they're having a "bad case of buyer's remorse" after voting for Clinton.

Those states do allow early voters to change their ballots. But the deadline was Tuesday in Minnesota and deadlines in the other states are fast approaching.

Election officials say voters rarely change absentee ballots. University of Wisconsin-Madison political scientist Barry Burden says he doesn't expect large numbers of people will change their minds this year. He said early voters tend to be especially enthusiastic about their favorite candidate.

---

2 p.m.

A group of 62 retired senior military officers is raising concerns about potential links between Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin. They are calling on the Republican candidate to release his tax returns to determine if there are financial ties to Moscow.

The officers, who range in rank from one-star to four-star generals and admirals, question whether a Trump presidency would serve national security interests or his organization's bottom line.

In a letter, they say Trump has taken actions to benefit Russia, including his refusal to acknowledge intelligence conclusions that recent cyber hacks into the Democratic National Committee were tied to the Kremlin.

The letter was signed by a number of combat-decorated officers as well as several who have been involved in politics in recent years, including retired Gen. Wesley Clark.

--

12:55 p.m.

Donald Trump is urging his supporters "to pretend we're slightly losing" in order to drive up enthusiasm in the crucial battleground of Florida.

The Republican presidential candidate claimed "we're way up in Florida," but then urged his voters to not get complacent.

Trump said: "Ok ready? Pretend we're down! Pretend we're down!"

Most polls show a close race in Florida between Trump and Hillary Clinton.

The downtown Miami rally, held under a blazing noon sun, was the first of three rallies Trump was holding Wednesday in Florida. It's a state he must win to capture the White House.

He's made repeated visits to the Sunshine State in recent weeks and is slated to have another rally in Jacksonville on Thursday.

---

12:20 p.m.

A newly released hacked email from the Clinton campaign shows that a State Department aide appeared to coordinate with campaign advisers hours before Hillary Clinton's use of private emails were first detailed in a news account.

The email released Wednesday by Wikileaks shows the aide provided Clinton staffers with the agency's official response to a New York Times reporter. That was ahead of the newspaper's March 2015 story that Clinton had used private email to conduct all of her work-related business as secretary of state.

Wikileaks has been releasing thousands of emails stolen from campaign chairman John Podesta.

State Department spokesman John Kirby said the department would not comment on "alleged leaked documents." But he noted that the department has had to communicate with Clinton's representatives "to ensure accuracy."

---

11:35 a.m.

Donald Trump's wife, Melania, will make a rare public appearance, delivering a get-out-the vote speech in the Philadelphia suburbs Thursday. The speech will focus on her husband's vision for American women, children and families.

Trump's campaign says Mrs. Trump will also speak about the former model and immigrant's "real American story. " She will also talk about the "kind of dedicated, strong and committed first lady" she would be.

The visit will be Mrs. Trump's first solo appearance of the campaign. It will be her first speech since she addressed the Republican National Convention in July.

The speech is scheduled for 2 p.m. at the Main Line Sports Center in Berwyn, Pennsylvania.

---

11:30 a.m.

Hillary Clinton is making a surprise stop at an early voting location in a Caribbean-American neighborhood in South Florida.

Clinton was mobbed by the enthusiastic crowd gathered Wednesday in the parking lot in the town of Lauderhill. Caribbean music played in the background as Clinton shook hands and took pictures.

Clinton's campaign is pushing hard for supporters to cast ballots early, particularly in Florida, the biggest battleground state up for grabs

---

11:05 a.m.

Hillary Clinton's campaign has canceled a Des Moines rally with vice presidential candidate Tim Kaine and former President Bill Clinton in the wake of the overnight killings of two area police officers.

The Clinton campaign announced Wednesday that the event at the Des Moines Social Club was cancelled. Musician Ben Harper was also scheduled to perform.

Bill Clinton and Tim Kaine were still campaigning in Iowa Wednesday. Kaine was set to appear in Dubuque and Clinton had stops planned in Sioux City and Waterloo.

The officers were shot while sitting in their patrol cars early Wednesday in what authorities described as separate ambush-style attacks. Police said they captured a suspect Wednesday morning.

Donald Trump tweeted Wednesday that he was "praying for the families" of the officers.

---

10:50 a.m.

President Barack Obama says Hillary Clinton made an "honest mistake" by using private email that is now "being blown up into just some crazy thing."

Obama is offering his first public comments on revelations the FBI is looking into more emails. Obama said in an interview posted Wednesday with the online news outlet NowThis that he's trying to avoid looking like he's meddling in an independent process.

Obama said there's a norm with investigations that "we don't operate on innuendo, we don't operate on incomplete information, we don't operate on leaks." He pointed out that the FBI previously determined Clinton's mistakes weren't prosecutable.

Obama says new voters hear "all that noise" and wonder whether they should be worried about Clinton's behavior. But he says he has absolute confidence in her.

---

8:35 a.m.

A super PAC backing Hillary Clinton is following her campaign's lead onto the airwaves of Michigan and Colorado.

Priorities USA will spend at least $1 million in each of those states on TV ads by Election Day. Clinton's campaign has already announced plans to advertise in both states.

Clinton is favored in Michigan and Colorado, but they have been targeted by Republican Donald Trump's campaign.

The super PAC raised $175 million over the past two years and has been second only to the Clinton campaign as a top presidential ad buyer.

Super PACs can raise and spend unlimited amounts of money in support of a candidate, but they can't coordinate with the candidate's campaign.

---

8:20 a.m.

President Barack Obama is warning that early voting among African-Americans is lagging this year and threatens Hillary Clinton's prospects.

Obama told the "Tom Joyner Morning Show" that early voting is up among Hispanics, but not among black voters.

The president said people who care about his presidency must understand that all his accomplishments are based on his being able to "pass the baton" to a likeminded successor.

Obama also warned that Donald Trump could rip out first lady Michelle Obama's White House garden if elected.

The interview was recorded Tuesday and aired Wednesday.

---

3:40 a.m.

Hillary Clinton is pressing into reliably red Arizona Wednesday as she tries to steal a Republican state away from Donald Trump.

Her rival, reinvigorated by the FBI's new email review, was laser-focused on Florida, a marquee battleground state he can't win the White House without.

With less than a week until Election Day, both candidates are warning of dire consequences if the other is elected.

Trump says Clinton would be under investigation as president, sparking a "constitutional crisis," though the FBI has declined to prosecute her for her handling of classified information. Clinton has vowed the FBI will have "no case" after reviewing new emails, but her campaign is nervous about tightening polls and is ramping up attacks on Trump.