http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/tiger-city-widow-duped-handing-8658551
84
8
Sylvia Moynihan was known as the Tiger of the City but was duped by a gang of homeless men

A gang of homeless men bullied a kindly widow into handing over more than £50,000 by repeatedly turning up at her Kensington home begging for cash.

Sylvia Moynihan, a former lawyer know as 'The Tiger' was targeted by the group after handing the ringleader a fiver when she spotted him begging close to her house.

A few days later he offered to carry some heavy bags of shopping for the 81-year-old to return the favour but then repeatedly started turning up at her address begging for handouts.

The man - who has yet to be caught - then began passing her details to his associates at the St Mungo's homeless shelter in Earl's Court.

He told them Mrs Moynihan - who was nicknamed 'the Tiger of the City' during her career - was a "soft touch".

Tom Lonsdale, 44, was jailed for seven weeks yesterday after duping Mrs Moynihan into handing over £1,690 claiming he needed the money for tools.

He also told her he needed £300 to buy a ticket to visit his mother's grave in Scotland.

In reality, the majority of the cash went on drink and drugs.

Lonsdale attended Mrs Moynihan's address repeatedly between January and May this year.

Despite being given an official warning by police he attended a further three times, pestering her a further three times between May and July before being arrested.

He admitted one count of harassment at City of London Magistrates Court on the first day of trial yesterday [Weds].

Prosecutor Kunal Dave said: “Mr Lonsdale was introduced to the complainant by someone else who was also borrowing money from her.

“Because of the harassment she's now scared and vulnerable.

“In interview, the defendant said at the time he didn't realise he was harassing her.”

Lonsdale, who had over 50 convictions for similar offences, was subject to a 12 week suspended sentence for shoplifting at the time of harassing Mrs Moynihan.

Googlemaps The case was heard at City of London Magistrates’ Court

Naushad Ahmed, for Lonsdale, said: “She's a known person in the area she resides, she's a good person. She's helped a lot of homeless people.

“It wasn't his intention to stress the lady. He has the greatest respect for the lady - she willingly helped him and she's helped a lot of people.”

Addressing the bench himself, Lonsdale said: “I’d like to apologise for my actions - I was astonished when I read my convictions had gone over 50. I couldn't really believe it.

“I’m looking forward to my release - there's too much time I've been sitting wasting away in prison. It's not the best conditions to detox in.”

“I’ve got all sorts of support in my hostel and the staff are fantastic. I need to progress not regress.”

Jailing him for seven weeks, Magistrate Jacqueline Jenkins said: “You visited this lady and you borrowed money, and your record has many similar offences.”

“Let's hope that when you are released you make progress in terms of staying off drugs and staying out of prison.”

Lonsdale was told he had only three days left to serve of the custodial part of his sentence as he had already spent three weeks in jail.

He was also ordered to pay back the full £1,690 to Mrs Moynihan from his benefits at a rate of £20 per month, as well as a £115 victim surcharge.

Lonsdale was barred from attending her address or contacting Mrs Moynihan by any means indefinitely.

Speaking after the sentencing, Mrs Moynihan said: “He said that he needed some money to buy brushes and paint in order to do a painting job and I gave him £300.

“About a month later he came and he said he had a major job and he needed £3,300 and I didn't have that on me, so I gave him part of it.

“Then I checked him out with the police and I found out that it wasn't true.

“He came around, and I said ‘you're lying to me, you're not going to get any more’ and he became very aggressive.

“They all come for me because I'm on my own.

“They all say it's to buy tools for a job and they're all spending it on drugs. It's very sad.”

Mrs Moynihan spent her career with several international law firms, including Withers and Lovell White, as well as spending seven years in France with the French interior ministry.

When asked if she had been frightened by the gang's demands, she replied: “I’m not known as ‘The Tiger’ for nothing. I'm not frightened of anyone.

“I was just stupid enough and gullible enough to believe what they said, but I'm never going to be got like that again.

“People need to know that people like that exist and not to give them any money - they say they will pay you back but that's a load of old codswallop.

“They say they're going to get a job but that's not true either. They're all on drugs.

“If my husband had been alive he would have banged the door in their faces. You need to warn elderly widows to be on the lookout.”

“I have a very good policeman looking after me now.”

Lonsdale, of St Mungo's Association, Florence Nightingale House, Cromwell Road, Earls Court, admitted one count of harassment without violence.