http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/jayalalithaa-progressing-interacting-apollo-hospital/1/792497.html
841
8
Highlights 1 Jayalalithaa showed signs of improvement at hospital.

2 Apollo hospital release said that she was interacting and progressing gradually.

3 Jayalalithaa has been undergoing treatment since September 22.

Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa has shown signs of improvement though she continues to be on health support system. The Apollo hospital of Chennai, where Jayalalitha is undergoing treatment for almost a month, has said in a press release that the CM is "interacting and progressing gradually".



Jayalalithaa was admitted to the hospital on September 22. AIADMK initially said that she had fever and suffered from dehydration.



Later, doctors at the Apollo hospital confirmed that the Tamil Nadu CM was being treated for multiple complications including lung infection.



READ: Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa completely well, will return home soon: AIADMK

JAYALALITHAA IS BETTER NOW



The latest medical bulletin said, "The chief minister continues to be under treatment and observation for all vital parameters, respiratory support and passive physiotherapy."



It further added, "The chief minister is interacting and progressing gradually."

Some reports even suggested that Jayalalithaa was taken off sedation completely as she was able to sit up. The reports also indicated that once the tracheostomy tube is removed, Jayalalithaa would be able to communicate verbally.



READ: Prayer for Jayalalithaa: Man sleeps on thorns for 24 hours, offering himself to goddess Pechiyamman

Improvement in Jayalalithaa's health was also confirmed by her party. AIADMK spokesperson CR Saraswathy said, "Amma (Jayalalithaa) has progressed very well under the daily monitoring of Apollo Hospital doctors and specialists and soon she will return home."

Apollo hospital says Jayalalithaa is interacting.

PRAYER FOR JAYALALITHAA

Meanwhile, Jayalalithaa supporters and AIADMK workers continue to offer special prayers across the state.

Last week, the eight portfolios that Jayalalithaa had kept with her, were handed over to O Panneerselvam, who is discharging the duties of the chief minister. Panneerselvam held a cabinet meeting earlier this week placing Jayalalithaa's photograph on the table and leaving her chair empty.

WATCH:

ALSO READ:

Traffic Ramaswamy, who filed PIL seeking information on Jayalalithaa's health, booked for spreading rumours

