https://www.yahoo.com/news/three-hot-topic-pre-conference-workshops-kick-off-133500194.html
84
8
MOUNT LAUREL, N.J., Oct. 18, 2016 /PRNewswire-USNewswire/ -- Opioid addiction, leading-edge communication skills and best practices in workers' compensation will be explored during three pre-conference learning sessions at the Commission for Case Manager Certification ® (the Commission) 2017 New World Symposium™. Each four-hour session features a panel of industry thought leaders and case management experts. The pre-conferences take place Jan. 26, immediately prior to the opening session of the event at the Gaylord Texan Resort and Convention Center, Jan. 26-28, 2017 in Dallas.

The CCMC 2017 New World Symposium is a collaborative effort to address an urgent workforce development need for well-prepared, knowledgeable case managers. Growing demand for case managers to coordinate care for patients across case settings and to enhance communication in team-based care models created the need to identify a new cadre of qualified case managers.

The pre-conference workshops provide an opportunity to delve into current topics and trends, examined in an information-packed morning. Attendees choose one pre-conference track and learn from a panel of experts. Through Oct. 22, each of the three workshops is available to Symposium registrants at no additional charge.

The pre-conference on the opioid pandemic is a prime example of the timeliness of workshop topics. A recent study found the odds of becoming dependent on opioids increased 37 percent among 18-25-year-olds between 2002 and 2014.1 President Obama and Seattle rapper Macklemore—who battled his own addiction to prescription opioids—made headlines last week with release of a new documentary on the issue.

"All three pre-conference workshops bring sustained focus to trending topics for professional case managers," says Jane Harkey, RN-BC, MSW, CCM, chair of the Commission. "The design zeros in on a topic and presents advanced best practices that can be applied right away."

Participants will earn an additional four continuing education credits by attending any one of the three pre-conference workshops. The sessions are:

Trends & Awareness: Implications of the Opioid Pandemic for Case Management. Deaths from drug overdoses have jumped, driven largely by an explosion in addiction to prescription painkillers and heroin. The number of deaths reached 47,055 people in 2014—the equivalent of about 125 Americans every day. This pre-conference workshop will address problematic interventional pain treatments, examine current developments and address the impact to a case manager's practice.

Communication Skills for Professional Development. Case manager communication with patients and caregivers, supervisors and peers demands expertise. This workshop includes two parts: communicating effectively within organizations and how to harness the power—and avoid the pitfalls—of social media. Participants will learn compelling techniques for becoming more effective communicators in the complex health care environment.

Workers' Compensation. A long evolutionary history leads to today's evidence-based workers' compensation practice. Participants will examine how a multi-disciplinary approach can improve patient outcomes, and how case referral and other trends are changing this area of case management. The workshop closes with a panel presentation and audience interactive review of real-life cases, as well as discussion of their resolution using case management best practices

Complete speaker, agenda and registration information about the CCMC 2017 New World Symposium is available at https://symposium.ccmcertification.org. To learn more about case managers and the Commission's workforce development focus, see the overview.

About the Commission for Case Manager Certification

The Commission for Case Manager Certification (the Commission) is the first and largest nationally accredited organization that certifies more than 40,000 professional case managers. The Commission is a nonprofit, volunteer organization that oversees the process of case manager certification with its CCM ® credential. The Commission is positioned as the most active and prestigious certification organization supporting the practice of case management. For more information, visit www.ccmcertification.org, connect with the Commission on Facebook or follow us on Twitter @CCM_Cert.

1 "Upswing in Prescription Opioid Use Disorder and Heroin Use Among Young Adults." https://www.mailman.columbia.edu/public-health-now/news/upswing-prescription-opioid-use-disorder-and-heroin-use-among-young-adults

To view the original version on PR Newswire, visit:http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/three-hot-topic-pre-conference-workshops-to-kick-off-ccmc-2017-new-world-symposium-300346657.html

SOURCE Commission for Case Manager Certification