http://usa.onlinenigeria.com/news/155630-heathrow-expansion-triggers-brexit-by-election-after-zac-goldsmith-resigns.html
841
8
Mr Goldsmith will run as an independent and Tories will not challenge

Eurosceptics will be angry if Remainers use election as referendum re-run

Mr Goldsmith campaigned for Leave but seat voted strongly for Remain

Lib Dems say by-election for Zac Goldsmith's seat is 'vote on Brexit'

By Daniel Martin, Chief Political Correspondent For The Daily Mail

Published: 18:10 EST, 25 October 2016 | Updated: 18:17 EST, 25 October 2016

Zac Goldsmith dramatically stepped down in protest yesterday at the ‘catastrophic’ decision to expand Heathrow Airport.

As the Conservative MP announced his resignation last night, the Liberal Democrats vowed that the by-election sparked by his decision will be a ‘vote on Brexit’.

Party leader Tim Farron told the Mail he was confident of victory in the seat, Richmond Park, which the Lib Dems held as recently as 2010.

The Tories’ failed candidate for London mayor campaigned for Leave in June’s referendum, but his seat voted strongly for Remain – giving the Lib Dems hope of victory.

Lib Dem leader Tim Farron, pictured, said the by-election in Richmond Park triggered by Zac Goldsmith's resignation would lead to a 'vote on Brexit'

However, Eurosceptics will be angry that Remainers plan to use the by-election as a re-run of the referendum.

Mr Goldsmith will stand as an independent, as the Tories announced they would not put up a candidate against him – for fear of handing the seat to the Lib Dems.

Mr Goldsmith is a high-profile environmentalist and his constituency lies under the Heathrow flight path.

His decision reduces Theresa May’s precarious majority in the Commons still further – from 12 to ten.

Mr Farron said yesterday: ‘This will be a vote on Brexit and people should use this chance to send a message to the Government.

'Zac Goldsmith has failed Richmond Park on Heathrow and the Conservatives have betrayed the area on Brexit.

‘The Liberal Democrats will stand on our pro-European platform, as well as our outright opposition to a third runway.

‘The Prime Minister did not listen to Zac at all and ploughed on with Heathrow expansion.

‘She did not even bother to pretend to listen to him. But the Prime Minister will listen to a Liberal Democrat MP for Richmond Park.’

Mr Goldsmith, pictured yesterday, will run as an independent and the Tories will not challenge him as they fear handing the seat to the Lib Dems

At the last election Mr Goldsmith had a majority of 23,000. The seat would fall to the pro-EU Lib Dems if they received the same swing as seen in Witney last week.

Yesterday former business secretary Vince Cable, who lost his seat last year, refused to rule out standing.

Speaking in Richmond last night, Mr Goldsmith insisted the fight to stop expansion was not over and insisted the by-election would be a ‘chance to send a message to Government’.

He said: ‘I told you that if my party changed its position, I would trigger a by-election and give you a chance to vote again.

‘There was no small print. No expiry date. No ambiguity. It was a simple promise.’