https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-fix/wp/2016/08/17/the-murky-world-of-non-existent-evidence-donald-trump-uses-to-back-his-claims/
84
8


Trump at a rally in Wisconsin earlier this month. (Darren Hauck/Getty Images)

As he does, Donald Trump went a bit off-script in his speech in Wisconsin on Tuesday night.

"The Democratic Party has run nearly every inner city in this country for 50 years, and run them into financial ruin," he said, in line with his prepared remarks. Then, for emphasis: "Virtually every single one."

"They’ve ruined the schools. They’ve driven out the jobs. They’ve tolerated a level of crime no American should consider acceptable," he said, reading from the teleprompter. And then to the camera, off-script, he added, "Worse than many third-world countries. So bad that people don't want to even report on it. The real numbers are beyond belief."

In the past, we've assessed Trump's claims about crime being worse than third-world countries (the murder rate in some U.S. cities is worse than in some third-world cities). We've also looked at his claim that crime is "out of control," as he's put it in the past. Trump went on to mention that violent crime in the 50 largest cities increased in 2014, which is sort of true -- homicides in all 50 cities combined were up 17 percent, but only two-thirds of the cities saw an increase in homicides. So far, though, there's little indication that the long-term trend of plunging crime rates is decreasing significantly. Data from the FBI shows that even if an apparent uptick in the first half of 2015 holds for the whole year, violent crime is still down significantly even since President Obama took office.

But notice Trump's rebuttal to that: The "real numbers." People, he says, "don't want to even report on it." It's not clear if he means that the media doesn't want to report on crime, but it seems likely, given the next sentence, that he means that people aren't actually reporting all of the crime that they're seeing. As though murders are going unnoticed by the federal government because people are quietly killed and it never comes to the attention of law enforcement before they submit their data to the FBI.

During the Republican convention last month, Trump's then-campaign chief Paul Manafort made a similar argument in an interview on CNN. Look how the FBI just handled Hillary Clinton's email server, he said with a smirk. Their work "certainly is suspect these days."

It's an argument very much in line with another argument of Trump's: that the "real" unemployment rate in the United States is five or ten times what The Man wants you to think. Our fact-checkers looked at one instance of Trump arguing that the unemployment rate was higher than reported last year and found it to be entirely baseless.

But this effect goes much broader. There's a recurring theme to the Trump candidacy that information is being hidden that proves him right, and that it is being hidden proves that the system is rigged against him. It's perfectly self-fulfilling.

When Hillary Clinton released her tax returns last week, the response from the Trump campaign was not to release his own. It was, instead, to suggest that the campaign wanted to see "the Clinton Foundation records showing how the Clintons sold our uranium to Russia, ripped off Haiti and cut deals with oppressive regimes around the world," and "the pay-for-play emails that Clinton’s Chief of Staff, Cheryl Mills, refuses to turn over" and so on. There is no evidence that such records exist.

"The records we need to see are those being hidden, deleted, obstructed and stashed away by Hillary Clinton to keep authorities from untangling this corrupt scheme that reaches into the world's shady corridors of power," the statement says. Well, sure. Such records would be very useful to the Trump campaign. But the idea of this "corrupt scheme" is predicated mostly on information that Trump and his supporters imagine is being hidden, not information that has been made public. (It's also cobbled together from disparate chunks of information that have been strung together "A Beautiful Mind"-style to paint a picture of a broad conspiracy.)

This is the many-people-say-ization of political rhetoric. Data don't exist to show that crime is out of control or that the unemployment rate is bananas or that Trump is leading in the polls, but there is enough of a sense of truth to it that we can imply that there's a bubble of secret information that proves the point right. I'm right, the argument goes, because there's some way in which the eggheads aren't measuring things correctly (in order, above: unreported crimes/workforce participation rates/online polls).

The problem with this line of argument of course is that it's based on faith, not rationality, and faith is largely impervious to rebuttal. Another problem is that some part of Trump's base has been primed to accept cobbled-together conspiracy theories as equivalent to data-driven analysis. Outlets like Breitbart News -- which just lent its CEO to the Trump campaign effort -- have mastered the art of insinuating a hidden undetectable reality. Or consider InfoWars, an explicitly pro-conspiracy theory media outlet which has been embraced by the conservative Drudge Report and with whom Donald Trump sat for an interview last year.

Crime isn't out of control, happily, and while an increase in the murder rate anywhere is problematic, it doesn't mean that murder is a threat everywhere. Donald Trump's argument that he is the "law and order" candidate is predicated on the need for law and order. And if that need isn't obviously real and the available data from independent sources doesn't bolster the claim, we'll just assume that it exists out there somewhere and that it's being suppressed, perhaps to keep Trump out of power.

Which is precisely how conspiracy theories are fueled.