http://www.ibtimes.co.uk/missing-mother-believed-be-run-two-murder-suspects-1587837
80
8
A mother-of-two thought to be missing, is now believed to be on the run with two murder suspects.

Police Scotland released an appeal for Farrah Fadli, 29, last week after she had not been seen since 12 October.

Now it is thought she is alongside fugitives Craig Munro and Allan Robertson after all three were captured on the same CCTV camera.

Officers wanted to question Munro, 30, and Robertson, 26, about the "violent" death of John Smith who was murdered in Stevenston, Ayrshire, south-west of Glasgow, earlier this month.

"This turned from a missing person's inquiry into a murder inquiry and is now a major priority for Police Scotland," a source told the Scottish Daily Record. "It is an extraordinary sequence of events and a major manhunt is underway."

Fadli, who also goes by the name Farrah Gillespie, was last seen at 11am on 12 October – three days after Smith, 52, was found dead in western Scotland.

Two days after police released their appeal for Fadli on 14 October, she dropped off her two children, aged four and nine, to a friend's house in Irvine and was not seen since.

At the time of her disappearance, police said: "It is now almost a week since Farrah has gone missing and as time progresses we remain concerned for her wellbeing.

"It is extremely unusual for her to leave her children for such a long time and not be in touch with her family and friends."

A separate appeal for Munro and Robertson advised the public "not to approach these males," however it has been confirmed by Police Scotland that the two appeals are now linked.

'Violent attack'

John Smith was discovered in Stevenston at roughly 3pm on 15 October with a 30-year-old man, and both had serious injuries.

They were taken to hospital suffering with knife wounds. However, Smith died two days later. The younger man was released.

In a police statement released earlier in the week, Detective Inspector Alan McAlpine said: "Inquiries are ongoing at this time to determine the circumstances surrounding this incident.

"Local residents may have heard a disturbance within the property or just outside at the time of the incident. This was a violent attack which has resulted in a man sustaining life-threatening injuries."

Another 56-year-old man was also discovered dead in Stevenston earlier in the day, but it has not been established whether the cases are linked.

Anyone with information about the location of Fadli, Munro or Robertson should call 101.