http://www.ibtimes.co.in/google-pixel-phone-series-india-release-details-revealed-700837
84
8
Google's Pixel phone series, which was put up for pre-order in India, earlier in the month, will finally be made available next week.

Google India (via Twitter) confirmed that the new Pixel and Pixel XL can be purchased from official brick-and-mortal retail partners-- Reliance Digital, Croma, E-zone outlets, Spice HotSpot, Sangeetha, Poorvika Mobile World, Vijay Sales and Bajaj Electronics from October 25 onwards.

Also read: Google Pixel phone series: X-factor that makes Nexus successor standout among rivals

Even the e-commerce affiliate Flipkart too will commence delivering the flagship smartphones from Tuesday in India.

This is a welcome move by Google to include India along with developed markets in the first phase of the Pixel series release schedule, unlike rival brands such as Apple, Lenovo-owned Motorola, HTC, Sony and other, which roll-out their flagship phones first to America, Australia and European markets and then to sub-continent.

Coming back to topic at hand, Google's move to bring Pixel series early in India, is a master stroke, as it coincides with big festive season (Deepavali) and just recently, rival Samsung withdrew plans to launch the Galaxy Note7.

Also read: Complete details on Flipkart's special offers on Google Pixel series in India

With less competition, Google has reportedly set aside huge cash to market the Pixel series phones. It is planning to book spaces in print-media and air TV commercials as well as build special kiosks, as make-shift experience zones in multi-branded retail stores and malls to build brand awareness in the country.

Also read: Moto G4, G4 Plus gets Android Nougat update in India [How to install]

For the uninitiated, Google Pixel and Pixel XL look identical. They flaunt uni-body design language with annodised Aluminum-based cover on the back, but differ in screen sizes—one, with 5.0-inch having full HD (1920x108p) resolution and another with 5.5-inch display having QHD (2560x1440p) resolution.

The future is exciting. And by future we mean 3 days from now. #Pixel will start reaching stores on 25th October #madebygoogle pic.twitter.com/uZiGKzC7uk — Google India (@GoogleIndia) October 22, 2016

Rest of the specifications remains same in both the devices.

Key specifications of Google Pixel and Pixel XL: