http://www.themalaymailonline.com/what-you-think/article/insults-and-police-action-tan-jin-huat
84
8
Insults and police action — Tan Jin Huat

SEPTEMBER 20 — When I read about the arrest of former journalist Sidek Kamiso yesterday, his four-hour journey from Kuala Lumpur to Johor Baru to be presented to a magistrate court to be remanded but was subsequently released, I felt indignation in my heart about the treatment given him.

Why is it that I felt upset by this police action?

First, if the police has said that Kamiso had insulted Islam, then the police must in no uncertain terms say so specifically. In fact, I was looking high and low for what Kamiso had said about Islam.

I do not know Kamiso nor do I have access to his Facebook about his comments so I am unable to read what he has written. But because the police had arrested him, I was indeed curious about what he had said, and why he deserves to be arrested.

Second, I personally feel that it is improper for the police to take him on a four hour journey to be charged in Johor Baru instead of in Petaling Jaya or Bandar Utama where he is living.

Such an action seems to me to be punitive already since the prolonged journey under police custody has no doubt a psychological effect on Kamiso and his family who are left in the dark about his wherabouts.

What is worse is that Kamiso was released as the court denied the police their application for a remand. It seems to mean that the police has no real case against him, and from the news report, there was little to substantiate their case for a remand.

If the police is doing this deliberately, then it tantamounts to police bullying. And this must stop. If they are genuine, then they are doing their job but a very poor one at that. I know that the police can be very efficient but why the seeming inefficiency here?

Then, I thought about the family and the consequences of police action on Kamiso’s wife and children making them to go through unnecessary trauma.

I appeal to the IGP and police not to be hasty about their arrests of people who seem to make comments that seem to insult other people or Islam.

I would like to remind the police that justice must be seen to be done fairly across the board in our multi-racial, multi-religious and multi-cultural nation. It is not only about insulting Islam but also insulting other people’s religions.

What I am referring to are insults in the past that a number of pro-establishment people have made regarding other people’s religions. In particular, UiTM organised two seminars in the recent past of a year or two ago where the presenters asserted that the Gospels of the Christians are fake.

This is certainly an insult to Christianity. My question is why did the IGP not take any action at all? Until today nothing has been done.

The same could be said about the cow-head incident in Shah Alam offending the Hindus greatly.

Or in the case of vandalising idols in the temple in Ipoh a year or so ago, no charge has been taken against the culprit. Except that the police “became medical specialist” and recommended the culprit to be hospitalised.

In a nation like ours, we should respect each other’s beliefs even if we disagree with each other, and live in peace with each other. We should certainly not deliberately insult each other.

But in the case of Kamiso, how has he insulted Islam when he commented on the demise of PAS spiritual adviser, Datuk Dr Haron Din? I am really curious and await for what unfolds next.

Of course, this leads me to the case of Jeff Ooi whose twitter comments — “Adios. May there be peace” — could be viewed at worst as a rude remark, and at best his way of saying goodbye using the Spanish word adios where it reminds me of the old cowboy films where two cowboy friends say adios to each other as they part ways. There is really nothing rude in saying adios.

However, his next bit “May there be peace” could have been expressed less unambiguously. If he means the equivalent of rest in peace, is it offensive? Don’t we say this at funerals or see this written on tombstones?

He could also mean that the Almighty may give him peace since the deceased is going to meet his Maker. Is this rude? Does Jeff mean to say something else which is really offensive? If he is intentionally rude, it is unbecoming of a politician who should set a high personal example in conduct for the rest of our Malaysian public.

He should then be more refined in what he says in future. Of course, this applies to all our Malaysian politicians; some of whom have perhaps said worse things.

I appeal to all Malaysians to stop insulting others and also for those who feel that they are the receiving end of the stick to be less sensitive and more rational about comments made by others.

The role of the police is to be an objective enforcer of justice and by their action not be perceived as a tool of the ruling authorities. To the police, remember that as you do your job as you should, you have a judge in heaven who will repay you for what you have done here and now or in the after-life.

* This is the personal opinion of the writer or publication and does not necessarily represent the views of Malay Mail Online.