http://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/edmonton/alberta-opioid-prescription-standards-will-harm-patients-says-chronic-pain-patient-1.3778345
80
8
The College of Physicians and Surgeons of Alberta is introducing a draft of opioid prescribing standards in October, but a chronic pain sufferer says it could hurt patients like her.

"Not every pain patient needs opioids," said Tracy Fossum, who lives in Edmonton.

"But the minute you tell a doctor you're a chronic pain patient they've already jumped to a conclusion and help disappears quickly."

'The minute you tell a doctor you're a chronic pain patient they've already jumped to a conclusion and help disappears quickly.' - Tracy Fossum

She said doctors who already fear repercussions will become even more hesitant to take on pain patients once their new standards come in — which the College hopes to approve by next March.

"Their fear really is facing sanctions from the College, or being labeled as drug dealers and they immediately assume the worst."

Everyday Pain

Fossum had high fevers as a child that caused immune issues later in life. After she graduated from university her pain became so intense she could no longer pursue a career or lead a normal life.

"I was in bed more than I was out," she said.

Without treatment for her chronic pain, Tracy Fossum doesn't think she would be able to leave a functional life. (Supplied )

"After years of fighting to find a way to live my life, raise my children, pay the bills, and have some sort of quality of life, I finally found a doctor who had taken the time to learn about chronic pain and the treatment of chronic pain."

Along with a combination of treatments like physiotherapy, Fossum uses long-acting morphine every day, alongside high dosage Tylenol and Advil and morphine injections for "breakthrough pain."

Fossum said it's not a complete cure but it has restored her quality of life.

"I'm not pain free, but it gives me the ability to function."

College defends introduction of prescribing standards

Ed Jess, the College's director of prescribing and analytics, said doctors are careful rather than fearful when it comes to prescribing opioids.

"I think that physicians are appropriately cautious because they know that these medications have associated risks."

The College has said that Alberta has one of the highest rates of opioid prescriptions in Canada.

In 2015, 274 people in Alberta died from overdosing on the opioid fentanyl. (ALERT)

It recently endorsed the United States' Centre for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines on opioid prescriptions that came out earlier this year. The draft standards will be modeled after those rules. In particular, it is aimed at "assess[ing] potential harm and opioid misuse and abuse," said Jess.

In 2015, 274 people in Alberta died from overdosing on the opioid fentanyl, which has become widespread as a street drug in the province.

Read More | Alberta fentanyl wait lists could be deadly: expert

Fossum is concerned that pain patients will turn to street drugs to treat their pain if access to opioid prescriptions are restricted.

'I think that physicians are appropriately cautious because they know that these medications have associated risks.' - Ed Jess

But Jess argues that it will not unduly deprive patients who need opioids.

"Just in 2015, out of the 10,000 registered physicians approximately in the province of Alberta we had over 6,200 that prescribed at least an opioid for patients in the province. So we know that for patients that have legitimate pain there are many prescribers that are willing to initiate therapy for these patients.

"The goal of is to ensure that they initiate and follow up and maintain these patients appropriately."

Based on the feedback doctors have posted online through the College's website, many still remain divided on the best approach to treat pain patients while addressing what the College and other physicians have previously called an "opioid crisis" in the province.

The College is still seeking feedback from physicians, as well as from patients, before they release a draft of the standards next month.