http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/tearful-widow-demands-inquiry-after-9020244
84
8
Dr Jeroen Ensink was stabbed to death while posting cards announcing his daughter's birth

A widow broke down in tears as she demanded an inquiry into how her husband was murdered by a psychotic man days after knife charges against him were dropped.

Dr Jeroen Ensink, 41, was ferociously stabbed to death by Nigerian student Femi Nandap as he left his flat in Islington, north London, in December last year.

The victim had gone out to post cards announcing the birth of his daughter Fleur 10 days before.

When the renowned academic failed to return, his wife, Nadja, went outside to find police had cordoned off the street and the cards her husband had been carrying strewn on the pavement spattered with blood.

Nandap, 23, from Woolwich, south London, appeared before the Old Bailey to be sentenced having admitted manslaughter by diminished responsibility.

The court heard how he became psychotic from smoking cannabis and believed voices telling him he was a "Messiah" in Spring last year.

PA Nadja Ensink (centre) said: "An inquiry should look into how Nandap was granted bail"

PA Mentally-ill Femi Nandap was given an indefinite hospital order

In May, he was arrested and charged for wielding a knife in public and punching and biting a police officer.

While on conditional bail, Nandap went home to Nigeria where he was treated for mental illness.

His sister informed British police about his condition in August and handed in a certificate saying he was unfit to travel.

On his return in October, Nandap had stopped taking anti-psychotic drugs.

Then just six days before the killing, charges against him were dropped at a magistrates' court in December.

The court was told the student should not even have been in the country when he killed Dr Ensink as his visa had lapsed.

Prosecutor Duncan Atkinson QC conceded the decision made days before the attack was "not as it should have been".

He told the court there had been a review at the "highest level" and the issues involved monitoring on bail and identifying mental illness earlier.

He said the timing of events had raised "a justifiable sense of concern".

Mrs Ensink-Teich brought her baby daughter to see Nandap sentenced for killing her "soul mate".

Reading her victim impact statement in court, she demanded an independent investigation into failings by both the mental health service and legal system.

She told the court: "Not only was the love of my life taken from me, but with him also all of our hopes and dreams.

"he circumstances surrounding the death of her husband were not a "one off" Mrs Ensink-Teich said.

She added: "This is a terrible tragedy for me and for Jeroen's daughter, and family and friends but it is not a one-off; mental health homicides keep happening again and again.

"If such tragedies keep occurring, why has there not been concerted action to address this?"

PA Nadja Ensink slammed the "failure of the health and judicial system"

"If a person with a history of mental health problems is found wandering about with a knife, and attacks a police officer, then that person must be referred to a secure unit for proper assessment and treatment and not given bail so easily.

"This represents a failure of the health and judicial system that should protect the public and care for those with severe mental illness.

"An inquiry should look into how Nandap was granted bail after being charged with assaulting an officer and wielding knifes in public and why he was free on the day of the killing."

She said an inquiry should examine why the Crown Prosecution Service dropped the earlier charges and deal with whether the person responsible for the decision will be held accountable.

She went on: "This may help others from being in the same position my daughter and I now find ourselves in. I hope that our case highlights the necessity to bring about the required changes to existing laws. Lessons will not have been learned until concrete changes in legislation will be implemented."

Dr Ensink, originally from Holland, worked at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.

He was a renowned water engineer and a dedicated humanitarian who was committed to improving access to water and sanitation in deprived countries.

Judge Nicholas Hilliard QC said he was on any view a "truly remarkable" man.

Dr Ensink's manager Sandy Cairncross said: "He was killed in his prime and just as he was getting his own research projects under way, with potential benefits to millions of people."

Femi Nandap was handed an indefinite hospital order.