https://sputniknews.com/middleeast/201610111046224816-syrians-trapped-aleppo/
841
8
In September, terrorists blocked all exits from the parts of the city under their control, forcing local residents to live through constant shelling.

"People from the areas controlled by the terrorists want to get away, but they can't. They can't leave these areas in a legal way, they are unable to escape. They [the terrorists] don't want them to leave," one of the local residents said in an interview with RT.

© AFP 2016/ RAMI AL-SAYED UN Offer to Escort Militants Out of Aleppo Step to Curb Civilian Suffering

One of the Syrian officers also told reporters that there are several roads which local residents could use to escape from the city. However, the terrorists have shot at all who try to do so and only the most desperate ones dare to make the move.

"On our part, we opened many roads to civilians which they can use to reach us, but the snipers among the Islamists shoot all those whom they notice. They don't allow civilians to leave their sector," the serviceman said.

Recently the terrorists went even further and banned residents of eastern Aleppo from visiting their relatives or going to a hospital. Thus, even those who manage to escape from the militants' sector are not safe.

"We face a lot of difficulties moving around the city — we have to use small alleys and streets, walk through the cracks in the walls. We can't walk on the streets. We can't even let our children go to school," a local resident said.

© AFP 2016/ GEORGES OURFALIAN Syrian Army Comes Close to Eastern Aleppo From North

Fighting between government forces, jihadists and numerous militant groups in the city intensified after the Syrian army declared an end to the week-long ceasefire on September 23, blaming militants for numerous violations of the cessation of hostilities.

Syria has been mired in civil war since 2011, with opposition factions and Islamist terrorist groups fighting the Syrian army, with Aleppo becoming a battleground for government forces, jihadists and numerous militant groups, including Jaish al-Islam, Ahrar ash-Sham and Jabhat Fatah al Sham, formerly known as the al-Nusra Front.