http://www.philstar.com/headlines/2016/10/12/1632811/palace-reduce-foi-exemptions-10
84
8
MANILA, Philippines – Malacañang yesterday vowed to reduce the exemptions from President Duterte’s executive order on freedom of information (FOI) from 166 to about 10.

Christian Ablan, an assistant secretary in the Presidential Communications Operations Office (PCOO), told the House of Representatives’ committee on public information yesterday that the reduced list would be reflected in a new FOI manual his agency would issue next month.

Ablan said the shorter list that would not be covered by FOI would include certain information on national security, trade, finance and foreign affairs.

It was the PCOO that came up with 166 exceptions from Duterte’s FOI issuance, which covers only the executive branch.

The House public information committee tackled 10 bills seeking the enactment of a law on freedom of information that would apply nationally.

The authors of the measures include Lito Atienza of party-list group Buhay, Angelina Tan of Quezon, Winston Castelo and Jose Christopher Belmonte of Quezon City, Luis Raymund Villafuerte of Camarines Sur, Raul del Mar of Cebu and Sherwin Tugna of Citizens Battle Against Corruption.

Headlines ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1

At the end of the committee’s hearing, Atienza proposed the consolidation of the bills to expedite the approval of a common version.

“We have been talking about FOI since many years ago. There is consensus that we have to pass a law. Let us speed up its enactment,” he said.

Tan said it was unfortunate that previous Congresses have failed to approve the FOI bill.

“We hope we can finally enact it in this 17th Congress,” she said.

Del Mar said it was the late senator Raul Roco who filed the first FOI bill in the 8th Congress 30 years ago.

During the 14th Congress, the Senate and the House of Representatives passed their respective versions of the proposed law and convened a conference committee to reconcile them, he said.

The Senate approved the committee report, but the House failed to concur with it on the last day of session of Congress due to lack of quorum, Del Mar said.

He added that in the 16th Congress, while the Senate again approved its FOI bill, the House failed to pass its version.

Rep. Antonio Tinio of party-list group Alliance of Concerned Teachers, chairman of the public information committee, said he is aiming for approval of the FOI bill by the House before the end of the year.

“With his issuance of Executive Order 2 on FOI, President Duterte has already sent a strong go signal for Congress to enact an FOI law,” Tinio said.

Tinio hinted it may not be far-fetched for their colleagues to approve the bill the soonest and hasten its passage because no less than President Duterte has endorsed it, and even issued an executive order to implement it.

“Considering that FOI has been languishing in Congress for nearly three decades now, we aim to come up with a harmonized FOI bill and have it approved by the House as soon as possible, by the end of this year,” Tinio added.

Parañaque Rep. Gus Tambunting said passing an FOI law will not just prevent government crooks from taking advantage of much-needed public funds but will also entice and boost foreign and local investments in the country.

“Companies have been hesitant to bid for government projects in the past because of the perception – and the reality in many cases – that the bidding process was not open and transparent,” he pointed out.

But once an FOI law is “in place – and strongly enforced and followed – more companies will be encouraged to do business in our country,” he said.

“The FOI helps the people prevent government officials from committing these wrongs at the expense of and to the detriment of the people they have vowed to serve,” Tambunting stressed.

Speaker Pantaleon Alvarez has given assurance the House will pass the FOI bill.

“With President Duterte’s EO implementing FOI in the executive department, we see no reason for us not to pass the much-delayed pro-transparency measure,” he said.

“I can guarantee and assure the public that the House under my watch will champion public interest and will be on the side of the people. We need FOI that is applicable to all three branches of the government,” he said.

Duterte’s EO covers only the executive department.

It provides that “every Filipino shall have access to information, official records, public records and to documents and papers pertaining to official acts, transactions, or decisions, as well as to government research data used as basis for public document.”

It allows Filipinos to request for information they need by submitting a written request to the government office concerned free of charge, but a “reasonable” fee can be charged to shoulder the actual costs of reproduction and copying of the information being requested.

Section 15 of the EO said any employee or public officer who will fail to comply with its provisions may face administrative and disciplinary sanctions. – With Delon Porcalla