http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3792562/Sheikh-s-bodyguard-father-four-strangled-wife-said-no-longer-loved-avoids-jail-decency-call-999.html
81
8
Ex-Met officer Pere Daobry is pictured leaving Colchester Magistrates' Court where he was convicted of assaulting his wife but spared jail because he rang the police after

A former Metropolitan Police firearms officer who strangled his wife until she passed out escaped a prison sentence - because he had the 'decency' to call 999.

Pere Daobry, who worked for the Met protecting VIPs - and now guards a member of the UAE royal family - set upon Sarah Jay, a former Essex Police sergeant, after the pair had been arguing.

When she declared that she no longer loved him, muscle-bound Daobry, 44, launched into a minute-long assault on Mrs Jay in the bedroom, using both hands to strangle her until she was unconscious.

Colchester Magistrates' Court heard how the ex-officer, who worked for the Met for 12 years, then rang the police and confessed to the 999 call handler: 'I want to report an assault and I am the perpetrator. I have assaulted my wife.'

When asked by the operator if his wife needed an ambulance, the dad-of-four responded: 'Yeah, I tried to strangle her.'

Daobry was married to Mrs Jay, 42, for two years before the attack on December 27 last year. He later denied the assault but was found guilty after a trial.

During the trial, Daobry claimed to have used a police-approved choke hold to stop Mrs Jay from taking an overdose of prescribed tablets at their home in the pretty Essex village of Thorpe-le-Soken.

But magistrates rejected his evidence 'entirely' and found him guilty of assault.

The offence was serious enough that he could have been jailed but he was yesterday handed a 12-week suspended prison sentence.

Left - Daobry with his wife Sarah Jay, a former Essex Police officer, in a picture taken last year when she took the force to an employment tribunal. Right, his LinkedIn profile picture - he says he is now working for the UAE royal family as a bodyguard

Explaining why the sentencing was suspended, Alix Mason, chair of the bench at Colchester Magistrates' Court, said: 'This was a very unpleasant assault on Mrs Jay and she was clearly terrified. There is no credit for an early guilty plea. Having said that, we do take note you have no previous convictions and you had the decency to ring 999.'

The defendant was also ordered to carry out 200 hours of unpaid work and handed a year-long restraining order. He must pay a total of £1,665, including £930 in compensation to Mrs Jay and £620 in court costs.

At the trial earlier this year, the court heard how the pair's relationship soured about six months before the incident with Daobry leaving to live in Australia after he lost his job as an undercover firearms officer with the Met.

According to Daobry's LinkedIn profile, his job at the London police force involved work in close protection and diplomatic protection.

Diplomatic protection at the Met can involve guarding government ministers as well as embassies, consulates and diplomats.

In Sydney he provided protection to a 'high net worth individual'.

After his stint in Australia, the court heard, he arrived back in England in early December 2015 and returned to stay at the marital home.

Mrs Jay told the court: 'When he came back, I didn't recognise him as being the same person. I told him I didn't love him and I did not recognise him as the person I married.'

She said he got angry and began shouting, and came towards her as she was on a bed – she tried to get away.

'He grabbed me and I don't know if I was pushed or I fell, but the next thing I remember I was on my back between the bed and the wall. My feet were in the air and I was being held by my throat.

'I was struggling to breathe.'

Sarah Jay, a former Essex Police sergeant, was left with head and neck injuries when her muscle-bound husband held her by the throat in an assualt at their home in Essex

When asked by the prosecutor when the attack came to an end, Mrs Jay said: 'I don't know.

'The next thing I remember I was waking up. I was lying on my back with my feet in the air.'

When she awoke, Daobry was sitting on the bed and told Mrs Jay: 'I am phoning the police.'

The court heard that Mrs Jay, who now works as a personal trainer, suffered scratches and pain to her neck, scratches on her back and swelling on her forehead.

According to Daobry's LinkedIn profile he has been working as a close protection officer to a 'high net worth' member of the UAE Royal Family since January 2016. He has previously worked in a similar role for the Saudi royal family.