http://indianexpress.com/article/regional/digital-platforms-help-punjabi-movies-to-reach-out-says-mahie-gill-3061044/
831
8
Mahie Gill says that Punjabi film industry is coming of age and digital platforms are giving it a much-needed push to reach out to viewers in far off places. Mahie Gill says that Punjabi film industry is coming of age and digital platforms are giving it a much-needed push to reach out to viewers in far off places.

Mahie Gill says that Punjabi film industry is coming of age and digital platforms are giving it a much-needed push to reach out to viewers in far off places. “Digital platforms help Punjabi movies reach out to viewers in places where theatrical releases are not possible. Punjabi film industry is coming of age and growing. We will continue to put in efforts to bring high quality content to our viewers,” Mahie said in a statement.

More from the world of Entertainment:

She spoke on the sidelines of an announcement by Spuul, the popular digital video-on-demand (VOD) platform for Indian and regional content, which has expanded its Punjabi content library with a collection of over 100 movies.

Keeping in line with its strategy to grow and expand its existing library on regional movies this year, Spuul has added movies from leading Punjabi content producers and distributors such as Lokdhun, Unisys, Daddy Mohan Records, Speed Records, Kumar Films, Yellow Music and more.

With this tie-up, viewers across the country and globally will be able to stream some of the most popular titles of Punjabi cinema.

Spuul will be showcasing the exclusive premiere of “Atishbaazi Ishq”, starring Mahie and Roshan Prince, within a week of its theatrical release early next month. Earlier, they had also exclusively showcased Jimmy Sheirgill’s “Vaisakhi List” for the first two months of its digital release.

Other popular titles in the Spuul catalogue are both instalments of “Jatt & Juliet” and animated entertainer “Chaar Sahibzaade”.

The movies are available across platforms like Web, Mobile (iOS, Android), Smart TV, Airplay on iOS, Fire on Amazon and Chromecast on Android. Commenting on the latest development, Rajiv Vaidya – CEO, Spuul India, said: “We enjoy the patronage of a large number of Punjabi users across the globe. Adding Punjabi language content to our already vast Hindi catalogue is a natural progression.

“Considering the huge improvement in the quality of Punjabi films being produced today, they are appealing to a much wider audience. We are excited to provide to our 18 million viewers across India, Pakistan, Canada, Australia and New Zealand, UK, US and Middle East with better, newer and fresher Punjabi content.”