http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3820576/Soldiers-victory-legal-vultures-Mail-campaign-British-troops-protected-Human-Rights-Act-claims-battlefield.html
84
8
British soldiers are to be exempt from human rights laws when in combat.

In a major victory for the Daily Mail, Theresa May will today announce that the UK's obligations under the European Convention on Human Rights will be suspended in any future international conflict. Ambulance-chasing lawyers will no longer be able to use the convention to drag troops through the courts.

The Mail has campaigned for an end to the hounding of hundreds of soldiers who fought in Iraq and Afghanistan. Some have been pursued for years by unscrupulous lawyers and put through the turmoil of repeated investigations. But the Prime Minister will declare an end to this 'vexatious claims industry'.

Military chiefs warmly welcomed the move, which is expected to save taxpayers hundreds of millions of pounds in legal aid and other costs.

The Mail has campaigned for an end to the hounding of hundreds of soldiers who fought in Iraq and Afghanistan. Pictured, British soldiers gather at Camp Bastion to mark the end of combat operations

The announcement is one of a string of laws the Tories will unveil today to bolster national security. In an exclusive interview with this newspaper, Home Secretary Amber Rudd reveals that:

Britain is to change the law to make it easier to boot out EU rapists, killers and other criminals within months;

Rules against unduly lenient sentences will be applied to terrorists in a blitz on extremism;

The UK will retain access to EU terrorism and crime databases - despite the Remain camp claiming this would be impossible

On the new protection for our troops, Defence Secretary Michael Fallon said: 'Our legal system has been abused to level false charges against our troops on an industrial scale. This change is an important step towards putting that right.'

The European Convention on Human Rights, which was incorporated into British law by Tony Blair's Human Rights Act, has been exploited by legal aid lawyers to launch thousands of complaints to the Iraq Historic Allegations Team and Operation Northmoor.

The state-funded bodies were set up to investigate the conduct of British troops in Iraq and Afghanistan.

The rules to be announced by Mrs May cannot be applied retrospectively, which means any claims already in the system will continue. She has also ruled out scrapping the Ihat investigation. Officials are confident that international rules allow us to suspend the convention at a time of war and in order to protect national security.

Both Houses of Parliament will vote on the move in order to send an unequivocal message to the courts that this is the will of the British people. Human rights lawyers are certain to issue challenges.

Mrs May will say: 'Our armed forces are the best in the world and the men and women who serve make huge sacrifices to keep us safe. We will repay them with gratitude and put an end to the industry of vexatious claims that has pursued those who served in previous conflicts.'

General Richard Dannatt, former head of the Army, said: 'I very warmly applaud this imaginative and bold move by the present Government. It will go some way to reassuring our armed forces personnel that they can operate in future without looking out for lawyers over their shoulder.' The blitz on EU criminals will be announced by Mrs Rudd in her conference speech.

She said the public had spoken and she was not going to wait until Brexit to act.

The crackdown – to be introduced this autumn – will order the UK's courts to start treating the thousands of EU convicts living in the UK in the same way as offenders from the rest of the world.

Theresa May (pictured) will today announce that the UK's obligations under the European Convention on Human Rights will be suspended in any future international conflict

Currently, they are given preferential treatment which makes it far harder to kick them out – allowing EU nationals who have committed heinous crimes to walk our streets with impunity.

It will be the first time the Government has acted to take a certain category of legal action outside the jurisdiction of Strasbourg judges.

Separately, convicted hate preachers such as Anjem Choudary will face tougher prison terms.

Miss Rudd told the Mail she will extend the Unduly Lenient Sentence scheme, which allows members of the public to ask the attorney general to examine flimsy jail terms, to include most terror offences.

It follows a huge outcry last month after it emerged that Choudary, who inspired hundreds of young people to join Islamic State, could be released after serving less than half his five-and-a-half-year sentence.

Miss Rudd also described the 'sobering' reality of being informed by the security services of the chilling plots to bring bloodshed to Britain's streets. As Home Secretary she is given top-secret briefings involving the 'shape and colour' of the attacks against the UK which have been thwarted by police and intelligence agencies.