https://www.yahoo.com/news/hangover-free-alcohol-could-soon-be-on-its-way-091738206.html
10
1
Hangovers could soon be a thing of the past! [Photo: picography.co via Pexels]

It’s one of life’s biggest bummers. The happy high of a night spent chugging the cocktails followed by the crushing low of a head-pounding, nausea-inducing hangover. How many times have you vowed the morning after that you’re Never. Drinking. Again? Well this common weekend dilemma could soon be a thing of the past thanks to the discovery of a new type of synthetic alcohol, which promises to kick hangovers to the curb!

A professor from Imperial College London claims to have officially created hangover-free alcohol. Alcosynth is non-toxic and specially designed to create the same positive effects of alcohol, but without the debilitating morning-after symptoms. Yep that’s right no more throbbing heads, sickness or dicky tums. This is huge people!



The drink is the genius brainchild of Professor David Nutt who has created 90 varieties of the compound – two of which are now being tested for mass use. Apparently one compound is completely tasteless, while the other has a bitter flavour, and works well in mojitos. Lovely!



Professor Nutt told The Independent he hopes alcosynth will completely replace normal hangover-inducing alcohol by 2050 – well within most of our lifetimes. Hooray!



View photos

Cheers to hangover-free booze! [Photo: unsplash.com via Pexels]

Though the specific formulas of the new drinks remain secret, Nutt and his team of scientists claim to have created them by researching substances that have a similar impact on the brain to alcohol. And as well as being hangover-free, drinking synthetic alcohol also can also help reduce the risk of liver and heart damage.



“We know a lot about the brain science of alcohol; it’s become very well understood in the last 30 years,” the professor told The Independent.



“So we know where the good effects of alcohol are mediated in the brain, and can mimic them. And by not touching the bad areas, we don’t have the bad effects.”



Could feeling like this be a thing of the past? [Photo: Giphy]

The only downside to the news is that it could be a while before we’re able to order an alcosynth colada a) because funding a whole new drug is expensive and b) because they have to iron out any potential concerns over regulations.



And while we wait this magical new drink to transform our happy hours forever, it’s probably worth remembering that hangovers are our body’s natural way of telling us that we probably over did it on the porn star martinis. So though feeling like death-warmed up is never a pleasant experience at least hangovers are nature’s way of letting us know we’re probably not ready to get back on the sambucas just yet. Unless of course you subscribe to the hair of the dog school of thought.



Would you give alcosynth a try? Let us know @YahooStyleUK

This organisation will pay you to drink red wine

This Is What Gin Lovers Have In Common, Apparently