http://www.nytimes.com/2016/10/11/us/hurricane-matthew.html
84
8
Photo

The Latest

■ The storm’s death toll in the United States has climbed to more than two dozen. Gov. Pat McCrory of North Carolina said Tuesday that the state had recorded 14 fatalities. At least six people died in Florida, and the authorities in Georgia and South Carolina reported three deaths in each state.

■ More than 650,000 customers remain without electricity, according to local utilities, with about half of those in North Carolina and Virginia.

■ The flooding after the storm had a special sting in Fair Bluff, N.C., which has tried with grit and heart to remake itself amid economic shifts. Read more from Jess Bidgood and Alan Blinder »

Video

North Carolina: Rivers Still Rising

Mr. McCrory said Tuesday that an enormous swath of North Carolina was in turmoil.

“Certain parts of the state were going through recovery at this point in time,” Mr. McCrory said. “Certain parts of the state were still going through ongoing floods. And now we have other parts of the state that are about to deal with some very serious circumstances, especially along two of our major rivers.”

Mr. McCrory said that state officials were especially worried about residents in and near Goldsboro, Greenville and Rocky Mount, where flooding was expected throughout the week. And with North Carolina’s fatality count rising, often because of vehicles that become submerged, Mr. McCrory pleaded with residents to avoid driving through flooded areas.

“If we say the water’s coming and we say do not drive through that water, we mean it,” Mr. McCrory said. “Do not go through water. We’ve had over 10 people killed as a result of that. We are not messing around, and we do not want to put people at risk to save you once you’ve made that decision.”

He continued: “Too many people have died, and we don’t want anymore to die. Yet there are going to be conditions during the next 72 hours which will be extremely dangerous.”

Three people are missing, the governor said.

Mr. McCrory also said that a state trooper had fatally shot a man in Lumberton on Monday night after “a confrontation.” The governor said that state officials were investigating the shooting and that it had occurred in a flooded area that emergency workers were trying to traverse in a Humvee.

“All we know is there was a confrontation and a shooting that has resulted in a man’s death in very, very difficult circumstances,” the governor said.

More than 2,000 people have been rescued since the flooding began in North Carolina, nearly 100 people by aircrews. Evacuation orders were widespread, and the state authorities moved nearly 800 inmates from a prison near the Neuse River.

The governor said it was “unacceptable” that about 50 or 60 people were resisting demands that they leave a part of Moore County where a dam was at risk of failing.

“Get out,” Mr. McCrory said. “Get out now.”

The White House said on Monday night that President Obama had signed a federal disaster declaration for 31 counties.

Mr. McCrory said on Tuesday that about 282,000 homes and businesses were without electricity, and parts of Interstate 40 and Interstate 95 remained closed.

Florida: More Time to Register to Vote

A federal judge on Monday extended Florida’s voter registration deadline by one day, delivering a quick legal victory to Democrats who argued that the storm had upended plans to draw more people into the political process in one of the nation’s most closely contested states.

In a strongly worded ruling, Judge Mark E. Walker of Federal District Court in Tallahassee said residents would be allowed to join the voter rolls until 5 p.m. Wednesday.