http://newsday.co.tt/news/0,234919.html
81
8
A d v e r t i s e m e n t

COP CUFF ME

By STACY MOORE Sunday, October 23 2016

click on pic to zoom in

Adelle Gilbert’s 74-year-old grandmother claims a policeman struck her in the chest so hard, on the day other officers shot and killed him, that she thought she was having a heart attack and had to seek medical attention at San Fernando General Hospital.

Already grieving for her grandson, Daphne Gilbert yesterday said it pained her to know a policeman could treat a senior citizen so callously.



Daphne claims the policeman cuffed her in the right side of her chest after he chased Adelle, 34, into the family home at Carlton Lane, San Fernando, last Thursday.



“I did nothing to deserve this and he looked at me and cuffed me in the chest and just continued running after my grandson,” Daphne told Sunday Newsday. Adelle, said Daphne, was cornered in a bedroom as other officers stormed the house and pulled him outside.



During the melee, Gilbert was fatally shot with his family and eyewitnesses claiming he did not have a gun or any weapon and was unjustifiably killed.



Video footage of the incident went viral on social media, triggering an immediate response by acting Commissioner of Police Harold Phillip who assigned Acting Superintendent Yusuff Gaffar to lead an investigation of the police killing.



He is being assisted by a team from the Homicide Bureau and TTPS Professional Standards Bureau.



Sources yesterday said the officers involved in the incident remain on duty. They were asked to submit reports after the shooting on Thursday, and had a preliminary meeting with the investigating team but are reportedly asking to have their lawyers present during the official interrogation which is yet to take place.



However, investigators have been taking statements from eyewitnesses and persons who claimed they were assaulted by officers while protesting the fatal shooting.



One source said, “people are cooperating”. A policeman from San Fernando Police Station went to Daphne’s home yesterday and recorded a statement from her, in which she also reported the alleged assault by an officer.



Daphne, who has 22 grandchildren, was comforted by relatives and friends after being discharged yesterday from hospital where she had been warded since Thursday.



The grandmother recalled standing in the living room of the house when police officers surrounded the premises. “I had no idea what was happening,” she said. “I just saw all these police and then I saw Adelle running and police officers were chasing behind him. I did not know what was going on.” She added, “I was standing in the living room when a police officer shouted at me to get out of the (expletive) way then he cuffed me in my chest.” When she was struck, Daphne said she could not breathe, and held her chest before collapsing on a chair.



“I felt like I was getting a heart attack, the pain was so much,” she recalled.



Relatives immediately took the elderly woman to the hospital where she was kept for observation and had several X-rays taken of her chest. She was discharged and given pain killers. Daphne said relatives had asked the policeman, whom she said struck her, “how he felt hitting an old woman”.



“He looked at me before he left the house and said, ‘he would be sleeping comfortably in his bed at night’ and hearing him say that knowing what he did to me, it pained me so much,” Daphne said, holding back her tears. She said doctors advised her to take her medication and rest.



“What they did to my grandson was not right,” she said.



On Thursday, Gilbert’s common law wife, Alicia Richards, appeared before a San Fernando magistrate charged with assaulting a police officer in the execution of his lawful duties. She pleaded not guilty and was granted bail in the sum of $15,000. Up to late yesterday funeral arrangements were being made for Gilbert. Apart from the official police investigation, the fatal shooting is also being investigated by the Police Complaints Authority (PCA). Relatives said they had not yet contacted the PCA to make a report about Daphne’s allegation of police assault.







