http://www.thenational.scot/comment/letters-ii-gaelic-maps-pose-a-challenge-to-how-we-understand-scotland.23386
871
8
Letters II: Gaelic maps pose a challenge to how we understand Scotland

Tak the road an seek ither loanins. Wi thair ill-ploys tae sport an play. Nae mair will our bonnie callants. Merch tae war whan our braggarts crousely craw. Nor wee weans frae pitheid an clachan. Murn the ships sailin doun the Broomielaw. Broken faimilies in launs we've hairriet. Will curse 'Scotlan the Brave' nae mair, nae mair.

Roch the win i the clear day's dawin. Blaws the clouds heilster-gowdie owre the bay. But thair's mair nor a roch win blawin. Thro the Great Glen o the warl the day. It's a thocht that wad gar our rottans. Aa thae rogues that gang gallus fresh an gay.

THA mi duilich ach sa mhor chuid litir an seo bidh ann a’ Bheurla Shasannach seach Gàidhlig. Tha began Gàidhlig agam agus tha mi ag ionnsachadh Gàidhlig a-nis. (I am sorry but this letter will be mostly in English rather than Gaelic. I have a li

THA mi duilich ach sa mhor chuid litir an seo bidh ann a’ Bheurla Shasannach seach Gàidhlig. Tha began Gàidhlig agam agus tha mi ag ionnsachadh Gàidhlig a-nis. (I am sorry but this letter will be mostly in English rather than Gaelic. I have a little Gaelic and I am learning Gaelic just now).

I was fascinated by Paul Kavanagh’s work in creating Gaelic maps of the central belt (Wee Ginger Dug maps Scotland entirely in Gaelic, The National, October 1). As a Gaelic learner I find maps and place names particularly useful in expanding my vocabulary as it gives me something tangible to link the Gaelic words too.

I am a Lowland Scot who moved to the Highlands eight years ago and much of my free time is spent in the mountains. Learning Gaelic, and gaining some insight into the meaning of place names, has challenged my understanding of the mountains I walk and climb. For example, the mountaineer views the Cairngorm plateaux as an ‘arctic wilderness’. Cnap Coire na Spreidhe lies about 2km north east of Cairngorm summit. This hill name translates as Knob of the Cattle Coire. Was this corner of the mountaineer’s wilderness possibly once a cow field? Where does this leave the conservationist, who seeks to preserve the wilderness? What exactly are we conserving?

The place names I mention – and the ones on Paul Kavanagh’s maps (I assume) – have been taken from the Ordnance Survey (OS) map. The OS is a veritable British institution which all mountaineers rely upon without giving much thought. The original purpose of the OS was of course to map the Highlands less there were further Jacobite uprisings and government troops had to be moved around quickly in a land they were not familiar with; a fairly political purpose for a map! More recently the Highlands have been mapped with other political purposes in mind. I believe a Clearance Map of the Highlands has been created – this aims to create a visual representation of the regions of the Highlands from which the people were cleared. I am not familiar with this map but I imagine it conveys the message that large geographical areas of the Highlands which once had significant populations are now rather emptier. Within a similar timescale a Wild Land map has been created. This seeks to define those parts of the Highlands that conservationists consider to be of merit due to their “wildness” and which should be protected from wind farms. There has been some debate as to what degree the two maps converge and if Wild Land is actually Cleared Land. Perhaps one man’s wilderness is another man’s historic injustice? It just depends on which map you are looking at. Whatever your view on this debate, it demonstrates that the map is a powerful tool for conveying a political message.

I gather that Paul and The Dug have come in for some criticism (and outright abuse) for the publication of their maps. This highly inflammatory collection of lines, dots and letters dares to record the place names of Scotland in their original language. I think Paul’s maps will draw criticism as they challenges people’s understanding of the history of the land they live in and this must logically challenge their view of its present and future. For those of us living within the territory currently identified on the map as “Scotland” this is the defining issue of our era; who do we want to be?

K Wright, Inbhir Nis

I understand that Education Services in the Highlands and Islands have for many years produced maps in Gaelic for distribution around schools in the Gaeltacht. I do not think they have publicised this beyond their area, seeing it simply as support for he curriculum. The Bord no Gaidhlig might well have some.

Alasdair Macdonald, via thenational.scot

YOUR Saturday report, “American planes to fill the decks of UK’s biggest new carrier” (The National, October 8) neatly encapsulates much of what is wrong with British foreign policy. The carriers are all about projecting power Britain no longer has and have utility only in projecting the power of others.

Moreover, as recent interventions graphically illustrate, the results turn into disasters and often ultimately make us less safe, if indeed national security was meant to be a factor to be considered.

The carriers are really only a very expensive symbol of Britain’s decline. These almost plane-less carriers are the example par excellence of the transformation of the UK’s armed forces from imperial, through “punching above our weight”, to post-imperial auxiliary of the globe’s hegemonic military power, the United States.

As early as the concept phase there has been speculation that the US Marine corps would be an integral element of the carriers’ compliment. Indeed when it was announced there were two be two carriers, the Queen Elizabeth and the Prince of Wales, some thought that one might be mothballed or, if a friendly foreign buyer could be found, passed on. Other cynics thought the work generated might see off Scottish discontentment.

What we can be sure of is that never more than one of the carriers will be sent into a war zone. As Saturday’s article points out, there will never be more than one fully functioning air wing. To put this into context, the US had in its compliment ten carriers to build carrier groups around (the fleets that protect them). Today around half of these US navy carrier groups are deployed around the globe at any one time.

Given the ever declining number of Royal Navy assets, if every logistical sinew is strained and one carrier group is put together for a potential war fighting operation, almost all of the Royal Navy’ss surface fleet along with much of the Astute class nuclear-powered hunter killer submarine fleet will be deployed to protect it.

Because of this delusional imperial pretension, it will be an all-the-eggs-in-one-basket strategy which makes any potential foes response fairly obvious. Fleet carriers in the 21st century, without the ability to deploy a superpower level of retribution on any attacker, are as military redundant as the dreadnought battleship was by the later 20th century.

Today the fleet carriers’ role is to 21st-century power projection what the gunboat in African and Asian estuaries was to 19th- and 20th-century power projection. As such it has no relevance at all to the national security of either Scotland or indeed the UK of which sadly, we remain subjects, for the time being at least.

Let me conclude with a scenario typical of those who label countries who do not conform to certain values as rogue. Let’s use Iran, though if it is indeed a rogue state it has been around in one form or another for much longer than most European states.

Tensions are high and an American carrier group is dispatched as per to show what’s what and who is who , after all if you have them and you don’t use them what signal does that put out? So the Queen Elizabeth or the Prince of Wales adds a second string because that is their mission in life. Iran, or at least the western fantasist version of it, considers the options presented by its large shore-to-ship missile inventory developed in partnership with the Russians and Chinese. That bit at least is apparently true.

What carrier group would they take out with a blizzard of, by carrier standards, fairly cheap shore-to-ship assets? Whose retribution do they court? That of the world’s military hegemon, or the UK?

Bill Ramsay

Glasgow

I SYMPATHISE with Margaret Thomson (Letters, October 8) about the difficulty in obtaining Scottish stamps. Can you think of another country where you have to ask, as if asking for a special favour, for your own country’s stamps? The truth however is that these are grace and favour stamps, issued as a concession (as in Wales and Northern Ireland, which also have their “own” stamps, by the British issuing authority.) Jersey, Guernsey and the Isle of Man all issue their own stamps and make money from doing so. In that respect, as in many others, these English islands have more powers than Scotland. The whole business is indicative of the powerless state the British authorities see as fitting for Scotland.

James G Scott

Address supplied

I CAN identify with Margaret Thomson of Paisley. I used to get my Scottish stamps from my local Post Office without any great problem. However, the franchise was transferred to another operator and it just moved across the road.

About a year ago, I went to the shop and asked for Scottish stamps; I got blank looks and was offered Christmas stamps! It turned out they knew nothing about Scottish stamps. I tried three other Post Offices in the Corstorphine area and was eventually told I would need to go to a main Post Office; the nearest one was Princes Street Mall. I got the bus and waited in a queue, but no joy. They said they got their allocations from Royal Mail. All the assistants were apologetic.

As I wandered off, I muttered to myself “When I got up this morning I intended to go to the premier shopping street in Scotland’s capital, a venue normally stuffed with foreign tourists sending postcards – so where in the name of the wee man did I go wrong?”

I had to travel to Livingston; like Margaret Thomson, if they didn’t have Scottish stamps I was not buying. This very week I was in Livingston, so bought Scottish stamps at the time.

Is this a Unionist campaign? – my driving licence now has a Union Jack on it for the first time, as has my 2017 Lett’s Diary, and many other items in Tesco. Obviously the Conservative and Unionist Party is alive and kicking Scotland.

Jim Lynch, Edinburgh

THE pound dropped by more than six per cent in just two minutes on the back of reports that the UK would undertake a “hard Brexit” rather than a limited withdrawal which maintained access to the common market (Pound plummets to three-year low against the euro after Theresa May’s Brexit speech, The National, October 4).

Phillip Hammond issued a statement in Washington, seeking to calm markets. Speaking to journalists, he denied the Government had decided to pursue a “hard Brexit” strategy.

Hammond’s remarks will hardly bring calm over the longer term. The key question is whether, while formally leaving the EU, Britain remains part of the European customs union. If Britain made a complete break, trade relations with the EU would be conducted under World Trade Organisation rules, rather than EU market arrangements – a situation that would impact adversely on British companies.

The decisions the Government is pursing were heavily influenced by David Davis, who last month attended a seminar at Oxford University that presented a scenario for a “hard Brexit.”

Sterling stability is vital to the British economy. It depends on an inflow of foreign funds to finance its current account deficit, which runs at six per cent of its gross domestic product. If financial markets fear a further major sterling devaluation, those funds could dry up.

The Brexit crisis is part of the conditions that are being created for another meltdown of even bigger proportions than 2008 amid rising geo-political and economic tensions

This is the implication of three reports issued by the International Monetary Fund in preparation for its annual meeting last week. The World Economic Outlook reported lower growth in all the advanced economies, underscoring the lack of a genuine recovery in the global economy, while two financial reports pointed to mounting instability resulting from the injection by central banks of trillions of dollars into the world financial system.

Alan Hinnrichs, Dundee



Letters I: Only a time warp can account for this grim reality

