http://www.whio.com/news/crime--law/hamilton-man-charged-crash-that-killed-classmate/w5RPo5IggulyYn6eXOP8pI/
81
8
Updated: Wednesday, November 02, 2016 @ 6:30 AM

By: Breaking News Staff

One woman was shot and killed and a Brookville police officer was injured in a shooting at Speedway Monday night that led to an hours-long manhunt.

Ashley Sides was killed when shots were fired

Officer Henry Edds remains in stable condition

Suspect identified as Conrad Everett Davis, 27, a former Marine

Davis is currently in Montgomery County Jail

View our interactive map and timeline

FULL REPORT

Davis’ booking information said he was being held for murder but that formal charges had not been approved. A law enforcement source said Davis was from Cookeville, Tenn.

The Brookville officers involved in the deadly shooting were Henry Edds, who was shot and wounded, and Frank Graci. Both discharged their weapons, police said.

Edds remains in stable condition and is recovering after being shot in the arm.

It’s not clear if Sides or Davis opened fire on the officers and shot Edds, or who killed the woman. However, we are working to get that information from police.

Both officers involved in the shooting are on paid administrative leave, per policy, Brookville Police Chief Doug Jerome said. The incident remains under investigation, with Montgomery County Sheriff’s Office leading the investigation, he said.

Jerome said it’s only the second officer-involved shooting in the 21 years he’s been with the Brookville Police Department.

Brookville officers were dispatched around 9:40 p.m. Monday to assist the Ohio State Highway Patrol, which had a vehicle flee from a traffic stop, scanner traffic indicated.

The OSHP Dayton Post confirmed that their agency was the first to make contact with the vehicle, a white Cadillac SUV with Tennessee plates.

A trooper tried to stop the Cadillac as it headed east on I-70 near the Preble-Montgomery County Line. The driver did not stop and the trooper ended the pursuit because of excessive speeds, according to the patrol.

The Cadillac exited the highway at Arlington Road, but the trooper was not able to follow because of traffic. After exiting the highway, the Cadillac crashed at Wendy’s, but the trooper was not tailing the vehicle at the time, according to the patrol.

Dispatchers began receiving 911 calls that a white SUV crashed into a tree-line near the Wendy’s at the corner at Upper Lewisburg Salem Road and Arlington Road. A woman was reported to dispatchers as running from the scene, and possibly trying to flag down other vehicles.

Police located the Cadillac SUV in the tree-line, and asked for the fire department to respond. The Cadillac was reported found with heavy damage, but the responding officer was unsure if anyone was injured, or still inside the vehicle.

As police were looking for the female, shots rang out at the Speedway on Arlington Road.

An officer then radioed for medics for two people who had been shot. A woman, who the officer described as a suspect, was reported shot, along with one police officer. A dark colored SUV — later described as a blue Subaru Forester with Tennessee plates — was the vehicle where the shots came from.

Around 6:50 a.m. Tuesday, officers located the Subaru in a pond near a church at the intersection of Brookville Phillipsburg Road and Access Road. A K-9 tracked Davis to an unlocked camper at a nearby private residence in Clay Twp., where authorities took him into custody without incident around 7:45 a.m.

Outside of the Montgomery County Jail later Tuesday morning, Davis told News Center 7’s Adam Marshall that he is a construction worker and was traveling to New York.

Davis said Sides, 31, also of Cookeville, Tenn., was his significant other, and he didn’t realize she had been shot. He said he was sorry and ashamed, and admitted that it was his gun.

Davis played one season of college football at Cumberland University, according to that school’s sports information director. He was an offensive lineman who played just one season before a back injury sidelined him, according to the team’s coaching staff.

The sports information director said a coach said Davis’ father moved from Florida and worked in Cookeville, Tenn., which is about 45 minutes from Cumberland University. The university said Davis stayed in school a little while longer after his playing days ended.

Davis was booted out of the U.S. Marines after 18 months and finished as a private, according to records provided by the Marines.

Davis served from Nov. 18, 2012 until June 5, 2014, and his date of rank was changed to private on Feb. 25, 2014. His specialty was listed as a field artillery cannoneer and his last assignment was at Camp Lejeune, N.C. He was not deployed overseas.

“Conrad Davis’ premature discharge and rank at the time of discharge are indicative of the fact that the character of his service was incongruent with Marine Corps’ expectations and standards,” a Marines public affairs officer wrote in an email. “Due to the associated administrative processes, further details are not releasable.”