http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3786789/Council-leader-embroiled-row-David-Cameron-austerity-cuts-line-safe-Commons-seat.html
84
8
Was also entitled £20,000 pay-off when quitting as Prime Minister

Speculation he will follow example of Blair, who made £100m since 2007

David Cameron started his new life outside the House of Commons today by taking his daughter to school.

The former prime minister can look forward to a lucrative career after politics, with a big money memoir deal in the offing and potential business contracts.

His predecessor Tony Blair is reputed to have made an estimated £100million since leaving Downing Street in 2007.

Ex-MP: David Cameron pictured taking his daughter to school in London this morning after announcing his resignation from the Commons

The former Labour PM struck a £4.6million deal for his book, but donated the advance and all royalties to the Royal British Legion.

Friends say Mr Cameron will quickly join the elite speaking circuit where Mr Blair made up to £250,000 a time giving talks.

At 49, Mr Cameron is five years younger than Mr Blair was when he quit as an MP.

He has now given up his backbencher's salary of just under £75,000.

But like all former Prime Ministers, Mr Cameron will get a 'Public Duty Cost Allowance' of up to £115,000 from the taxpayer to fund his office.

Another £11,000 can be claimed to pay pensions for his employees. And the bill for round-the-clock security for the Cameron family will also be met from the public purse.

When he quit as premier, Mr Cameron was entitled to around £20,000 in severance pay - although it is not known whether he claimed the cash.

Mr Cameron will have to wait until he turns 65 to get the still-generous income of around £20,000.

He will also be entitled to an MP's pension - still a gold-plated final salary settlement of around £26,000 a year that most workers can only dream of.

Meanwhile, it has emerged that Ian Hudspeth could be in the running to succeed Mr Cameron in his safe Commons seat.

The Oxfordshire county council leader was embroiled in a row with Mr Cameron last year when the then-premier accused him in a letter of making 'unwelcome and counterproductive' cuts to local services.

In a stinging reply, Mr Hudspeth retorted that Mr Cameron had made inaccurate claims about the cuts and pointed to the significant falls in funding from central government.

Mr Hudspeth will face a strong field of competition if he does throw his hat into the ring. Mr Cameron had a 25,000 majority in Witney and has provided a base for big-hitting politicians including Douglas Hurd over the years.

Mr Cameron is still accompanied by armed police officers as he goes about his daily business

Final farewell: David Cameron leaving Downing Street with his wife Samantha and children Alwin, Nancy and Florence, after he resigned as Prime Minister in June

But the lure of earning millions, it seems, has proved a stronger draw. Mr Cameron is likely to take it slowly, having witnessed the public criticism directed at Mr Blair.

Smooth talker: Tony Blair is believed to have made £100million since he left office in 2007, earning up to £250,000 a time giving talks

But his wide network of contacts, experience on the world stage and relative youth mean he will surely not hold back for long. One of his former ministers told the Mail last night: ‘Of course he will get rich – or richer, as he is already independently wealthy. He’ll write his memoirs, and this will put his currency up.

‘He can make a fortune on the speaking circuit, especially in America where they are puzzled by Brexit and will warm to him, as he is very personable. He will also probably collect a handful of directorships worth £50,000 to £100,000 each, and he could start building up a property portfolio like the Blairs.’

The Blairs own 38 homes worth around £32million, with Cherie Blair and eldest son Euan presiding over an ever-expanding buy-to-let empire.

Mr Cameron’s friends insisted he would not follow Mr Blair’s lead. One said: ‘Don’t expect to see him popping up on the board at Morgan Stanley.’

Another said last night: ‘He is going to stay away from the banks – but he’s also going to have a life. He’ll set out his plans soon enough.’

FROM ELECTION HERO TO OBLIVION IN JUST 16 MONTHS May 7, 2015: Cameron becomes the first Tory leader since 1992 to win a Commons majority. May 27: The centrepiece of the Queen’s Speech is legislation to hold the historic referendum on EU membership. July 8: Cameron’s government pulls off a political coup after George Osborne announces plans for a national living wage. Sept 13: His political future seems assured after Labour elects Jeremy Corbyn as leader and its poll ratings start to fall. Sept 26: Cameron faces embarrassing allegations in a political biography that he once inserted a part of his anatomy into a dead pig. Nov 10: Cameron fires the starting gun on renegotiation with Brussels. Feb 19: Cameron gets an EU renegotiation deal – but it is derided by critics. Feb 20: He sets the date of the referendum: June 23 Feb 21: London mayor Boris Johnson announces that he will join Michael Gove in backing Leave. London mayor Boris Johnson announces that he will join Michael Gove in backing Leave. Mar 19: Iain Duncan Smith, then work and pensions secretary, quits over benefit cuts and attacks Osborne. April 7: Following days of evasion after his father was named in the Panama Papers, Cameron admits he profited from an offshore trust he set up. April 11: He is accused of an affront to democracy after an official government document, costing £9.3million, was sent to every household outlining the case for Remain. April 15: Official campaign begins with Johnson touring the country in a red bus whose slogan promises to spend EU money on the NHS. May 5: A boost for Cameron after Labour has a disastrous night in local elections. May 13: He is accused by Eurosceptics of being ‘frit’ for ducking a TV debate with Johnson. June 19: A BBC audience mocks Cameron over his failure to curb immigration from the EU. June 23: EU vote results in a shock defeat for Remain. June 24: Cameron resigns, saying: ‘The will of the British people is an instruction that must be delivered.’ June 30: Johnson steps down from the leadership contest after being stabbed in the back by Gove. July 13: Theresa May enters Downing Street and sacks Osborne. Johnson becomes new Foreign Secretary. Aug 4: Cameron’s widely-criticised honours list is published, handing out peerages, knighthoods and CBEs to donors and ex-staff. Sep 9: In a major speech, Mrs May signals a return to school selection in England – a decade after Cameron said the Tories would not support such a move. Sep 12: He resigns as MP for Witney in Oxfordshire– sparking a by-election.

After reneging on his pledge to serve his constituents yesterday, Mr Cameron is now freed from the burden of having to declare his earnings and donations.

His recent declarations to the Commons register of members’ interests include a £500 hamper from Fortnum & Mason and fitness sessions with a personal trainer.

The Camerons are currently staying in a £4million house in Chelsea belonging to financier and old friend Dominic Johnson, a freebie worth £2,650 a week. They plan to stay until the end of October, when the tenants at their family home in Notting Hill move out.

They have been pocketing up to £7,000 a month from the lodgers, but are keen to regain the £2million Edwardian four-bedroom home. It has great sentimental value to them, because it was where they were living with their eldest son Ivan, who died suddenly in 2009 aged six.

The family also own a £1.3million stone cottage in Oxfordshire, near Chipping Norton.

Mr Cameron’s predecessor, Gordon Brown, has taken unpaid roles at the World Economic Forum and as a UN special envoy on global education, plus a paid role that helps fund his charitable foundation.

SamCam plans a lucrative career in fashion after Dave's shock exit from politics

Style icon: SamCam could set up her own fashion label after she was named the world's best-dressed woman

Ever the stylish ‘first lady’ of British politics, Samantha Cameron is now expected to launch a lucrative career as a fashion designer.

As well as her own label, SamCam could also return as an adviser to the luxury stationers Smythson.

With Mr Cameron’s political life over, she can devote herself to rekindling her well-paid retail career.

She is said to be planning a clothing line with former aide and stylist Isabel Spearman, who received an OBE in Mr Cameron’s resignation honours list.

There is also talk of her resuming her career with Smythson, where she worked her way up to become the firm’s creative director and build a 2.7 per cent stake in the firm before the couple entered Downing Street.

When it was bought out for £15.8million in 2005, she received £437,000 for her shares, and received a second payout in 2009, estimated to be £40,000.

Her salary as creative director was said to be £400,000 in 2010, but when her husband became PM that year, she opted to go part time as creative consultant on a reported £100,000 a year.

Smythson’s own tax arrangements have come under scrutiny, with the Mail revealing it was owned by Greenwill SA, a secretive Luxembourg firm that was itself was controlled by the Barracuda Trust in Guernsey.

SamCam, 45, is a Marlborough College schoolfriend of Mr Cameron’s sister Clare, and she met the man who would become her husband at a party at the Camerons’ house when she was 16.

If anything, as the elder daughter of Sir Reginald Sheffield she may be wealthier than her husband. Mr Cameron once joked: ‘Samantha owns a field in Scunthorpe.’

But in fact her father owns property and land estimated at more than £20million, has more than 3,000 acres of arable land, the Grade I-listed stately home Sutton Park, an 18th-century Georgian house north of York, a home in London and a hall near Scunthorpe.

Mrs Cameron’s career took a back seat while her husband pursued his political dreams, but friends say she has been itching to get back to work, especially now that their youngest daughter, Florence, six, is of school age.

SamCam was named the best-dressed woman in the world by Vanity Fair magazine last year. Her first collection could be out as early as next year.

Her husband’s decision to quit politics also means the family will no longer feel the need to justify expensive holidays. This summer, they have holidayed in Ibiza, Portugal, Polzeath in Cornwall and the Scottish island of Jura.