http://m.themalaymailonline.com/malaysia/article/dca-says-in-touch-foreign-authorities-as-more-suspected-mh370-debris-found
831
8
DCA says in touch with foreign authorities as more suspected MH370 debris found

Share this article

Azaruddin said the DCA was in the process of obtaining assistance from the high commissioners in Pretoria, South Africa, Mozambique and Madagascar to retrieve the debris from the relevant authorities. — Reuters picPUTRAJAYA, Sept 13 ― The Department of Civil Aviation (DCA) is in constant touch with the relevant authorities of South Africa, Mozambique and Madagascar as more debris, possibly belonging to vanished Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370, are spotted in those countries.

In a statement, DCA director-general Datuk Seri Azharuddin Abdul Rahman said any possible debris would be made known to the DCA by the respective authorities and would be kept in custody of the said authorities.

“Upon initial verification via photographic evidence, we will then either send a team to retrieve the debris or request the authorities to courier the debris to Malaysia,” he said today.

Alternatively, he added, the DCA would obtain the assistance of the nearest high commissioner to retrieve the debris on behalf of the Malaysian Government and subsequently, courier the debris to Malaysia.

Azaruddin said the DCA was in the process of obtaining assistance from the high commissioners in Pretoria, South Africa, Mozambique and Madagascar to retrieve the debris from the relevant authorities.

He said the DCA had been officially notified by the Australian Joint Agency Coordination Centre (JACC) of the debris found by an American, Blaine Gibson in Madagascar recently, which had been handed over to the ATSB yesterday.

In an agreement with ATSB, Azharuddin said any debris found would be analysed and examined in Canberra, Australia.

Flight MH370, carrying 239 passengers and crew, disappeared from radar shortly after taking off from Kuala Lumpur enroute to Beijing on March 8, 2014.

The plane has yet to be found despite a massive search operation in the southern Indian Ocean where it was believed to have ended its flight.

On July 22, Malaysia, China and Australia agreed to suspend but not terminate the search for the vanished aircraft upon completion of the priority 120,000 sq km search area, which may be wrapped up between October and December. ― Bernama