http://www.timesofisrael.com/israel-names-sixth-final-victim-of-tel-aviv-garage-collapse/
84
8
Police on Monday released the name of the sixth and final victim killed in a building collapse at a construction site in Tel Aviv last week.

The man was named as 22-year-old Ruslan Isakov of the northern city of Acre. His body was recovered from the site on Saturday.

All six construction workers were killed when a four-story parking garage being built in the northern Tel Aviv neighborhood of Ramat Hahayal collapsed on itself.

Along with Isakov, also killed in the collapse were Oleg Yakubov, 60, from Tel Aviv; Dennis Dyachenko, 28, a Ukrainian national employed in Israel; Ihad Ajhaj, 34, from Bayt Rima, northwest of Ramallah; 28-year-old Mohammad Dawabsha from the West Bank town of Duma; and 45-year-old Oleg Mushailov, also from Acre.

The funeral of Mushailov will take place at 1 p.m. on Monday in the new cemetery in Acre, Ynet news reports.

At 2:30 p.m., Isakov will also be laid to rest in Acre.

After the collapse of the garage, civilian and military rescue personnel were brought in to locate the six people trapped under the rubble. Three of the bodies were found within the first 48 hours; the fourth was found Friday afternoon, and the final two were pulled from the debris on Saturday.

The Knesset’s Labor, Welfare, and Health Committee on Thursday summoned representatives from Danya Cebus, the company in charge of the construction site, various government ministries and police to address the fatal collapse.

Varda Edwards, the head of the Economy Ministry’s Israel Institute for Occupational Safety and Hygiene, told the committee that the site — which was nearing completion — was not found to have “significant flaws” when it was inspected in June.

Echoing Edwards, the chairman of Danya Cebus insisted the building site complied with government safety standards. “It’s not an issue of safety,” said Ronen Ginsburg, adding that an engineer had supervised the project. “It was an engineering failure.”

Ginsburg vowed his company would cooperate fully with a police investigation into the collapse. “We won’t conceal anything and we will hand over all the materials needed for the investigation.”

Details of the investigation remained under a gag order as of Monday.