http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3782381/Classroom-cop-Ben-Fields-body-slammed-female-student-using-cellphone-asks-job-sheriff-fired-says-no.html
80
8
A sheriff's deputy fired for tossing a student across a South Carolina classroom after she refused to put away her cellphone should get his job back, his attorney says.

But Richland County Sheriff Leon Lott says he won't rehire controversial cop Ben Fields.

Fields' lawyer says he should be rehired because a state prosecutor dropped the charges against the former deputy last month.

Attorney Scott Hayes' letter to media outlets Friday says the Spring Valley High School student hit Fields in the face so he was justified using some force to arrest her.

This disturbing video - which surfaced in December 2015 - showed high school officer Ben Fields flipping a female student over and dragging her across the classroom

Flipped out: The resource officer tips the chair over, with the girl still in it, throwing her down

Once the student is down, Fields grabbed her by the arms and leg and dragged her across the classroom floor . However charges will not be brought against him

But witness accounts of the incident vary quite a bit.

Lott said last year after seeing the video he wanted to throw up.

In an email, Lott's spokesman says Fields may still face a federal charge.

Lott announced last year that Fields had been relieved of duty for failing to follow proper procedures during the classroom arrest.

Fields, 34, a school resource officer at Spring Valley High School in Columbia, had been suspended without pay as a result of the incident, which was captured on at least three videos and went viral.

Fields, 34, is seen here exchanging a handshake with an unnamed man following the incident in October last year. It was recently announced that he faces no criminal charges

The attorney for the 16-year-old girl who was body-slammed by Fields in math class saidhis client - described as an orphan living in foster care -suffered multiple injuries during her arrest.

She was very disruptive, she was very disrespectful, and she started this whole incident. Sheriff Leon Lott on student's conduct

He also said Deputy Fields should have been fired as soon as Sheriff Lott saw the video of the classroom takedown.

Lott had said earlier that the girl was uninjured in the confrontation but 'may have had a rug burn.'

He made no excuses for either fields or the student, who he said was known for not 'letting teachers teach and students learn.'

'She was very disruptive, she was very disrespectful, and she started this whole incident,' Lott said.

But he added that Deputy Fields was in the wrong when he threw the young woman across the room, which he said was not based on training and ran counter to approved departmental procedures.

Ousted: Richland County Sheriff Leon Lott fired Fields, and said this week he will not give him his job back. He is pictured here in October 2015

'That is not a proper technique and should not be used by law enforcement,' Lott said.

When asked if Fields was remorseful, Lott replied: 'He's sorry that this whole thing occurred. It was not his intent... he tried to do his job.'

Lott also pointed out that teachers and administrators wholly supported Fields' actions, including the physical altercation, but he said he is the one who 'had a problem' with his deputy's conduct.

The videos of the confrontation between the white deputy and black teenage girl stirred such immediate outrage across the country that Lott called the FBI and Justice Department for help. A criminal investigation was then conducted.

However, in a 12-page report released, Solicitor Dan Johnson said he found no probable cause to charge Fields.

The school resource officer was recorded by students at Spring Valley High School flipping a female student to the floor and dragging her across a classroom after she refused to surrender her cellphone last October.

The student videos posted online showed Fields telling the girl to leave her seat or he would forcibly remove her. The officer then wraps his forearm around her neck, flips her and the desk backward onto the floor, tosses her toward the front of the room and handcuffs her.

Johnson's report includes statements from a slew of witnesses, one of whom said 'the incident looked worse in the video than it did in the classroom.' Another said Fields didn't intentionally throw the student across the room but lost his grip in trying to remove her from her desk after she refused to leave.

Niya Kenny, who recorded the confrontation and was arrested along with the girl after verbally challenging the deputy, told authorities that she didn't think the incident would have happened if the student had listened to their teacher.

The officer, senior deputy Ben Fields, reportedly has a history of acting roughly with students

Kenny also acknowledged that she made false statements to reporters that Fields was known around the school as 'Officer Slam.'

Both girls have faced 'disturbing schools' charges for nearly a year. Johnson said Friday they would be dropped.

In a statement included in the report, Fields gave his own account.

'I realized that I was going to have to physically remove the student from her seat to effectuate her arrest' after she repeatedly refused to come with him, Fields said.

He said the desk flipped over only because the student had locked her leg inside it, and claimed she punched him in the chest while he was subduing her.

Johnson— a former chief deputy under Lott — said the sheriff had the right to fire Fields, but said such swift action, coupled with administrative changes at the school district, undoubtedly affected the ensuing criminal investigation.

A U.S. Justice Department review was settled in August, when Richland County agreed to provide intensive training for deputies working in 60 schools on how to de-escalate situations, avoid bias and interact properly with disabled students.

'The reality, from a prosecutorial standpoint, is that these administrative actions, taken prior to the completion of the investigation, have been injurious to the prosecution of the case,' Johnson said.

An attorney hired by Fields after his firing didn't immediately return an email seeking comment late Friday afternoon.