http://www.nytimes.com/2016/09/09/briefing/north-korea-wells-fargo-serena-williams.html
841
8
Photo

(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)

Good morning.

Here’s what you need to know:

• North Korea’s nuclear test.

The country conducted its fifth and largest nuclear test early this morning, hours after President Obama ended his weeklong tour of Asia.

The nation, which is celebrating the 68th anniversary of its founding today, declared the test successful after a magnitude 5 earthquake was detected near the test site.

• Trump’s admiration for Russia’s leader.

Donald J. Trump has reaffirmed his preference for the leadership style of Vladimir V. Putin over that of President Obama, despite discomfort on the issue among Republicans and criticism from Democrats. The candidate is also defending his suggestion that the integration of women in the military led to sexual assaults.

Photo

A computer specialist who deleted Hillary Clinton’s emails despite orders from Congress to preserve them was given immunity by the Justice Department during its investigation into her personal email account. The move makes an inquiry into the deletions unlikely.

If our predictions for each state prove correct, the Electoral College map in November will resemble 2012’s in every way — except for North Carolina.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• On Capitol Hill.

The House is expected to approve a bill today that would let the families of those killed in the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks sue Saudi Arabia, setting the stage for a showdown with the White House. The administration has threatened to veto the legislation, fearing that it could expose the U.S. to a raft of lawsuits by people in other countries.

Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. will join congressional Democrats to again urge Republicans to hold confirmation hearings for Merrick B. Garland, the president’s nominee for the Supreme Court.

Photo

• Climate change and flooding.

Global warming makes intense storms like those that hit southern Louisiana last month at least 40 percent more likely, researchers say.

As rates for federal flood insurance increased, the market for private policies has grown. But homeowners should weigh how the coverage compares.

• U.S. rescue attempt fails.

Navy SEALs led a raid in Afghanistan last month to free an American and an Australian being held there, but they appear to have missed the hostages by mere hours.

• Death penalty use drops in U.S.

There have been two executions since May 1, and this year’s total could hit a 25-year low. Prosecutors are seeking life sentences with no chance of parole instead of costly capital punishment trials.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Sign-up for free NYT Newsletters Morning Briefing News to start your day, weekdays Opinion Today Thought-provoking commentary, weekdays Cooking Delicious recipes and more, 5 times a week Race/Related A provocative exploration of race, biweekly Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Business

• Federal banking regulators say that Wells Fargo employees issued unauthorized credit cards and charged late fees on accounts created by bank employees without customers’ knowledge. The bank was fined $185 million.

• Airbnb is moving to combat racial discrimination by hosts after months of criticism that threatened to cloud its growth. Our travel columnist has some advice for first-time users of the rental-home marketplace.

Photo

• One in five seafood samples tested worldwide turned out to be completely different from what the menu or packaging says.

Market Snapshot View Full Overview

Noteworthy

• At the movies.

“Sully,” starring Tom Hanks and directed by Clint Eastwood, is about the pilot Chesley B. Sullenberger III, who landed a disabled jet on the Hudson River in January 2009. An investigator of the plane crash disputes how the events are portrayed.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

At the Toronto International Film Festival, several films examine racial politics.

• Scoreboard.

The men’s semifinals at the U.S. Open pit Novak Djokovic against Gaël Monfils, and Stan Wawrinka against Kei Nishikori (3 p.m. Eastern, ESPN). The women’s final is between Karolina Pliskova and Angelique Kerber (4 p.m., Saturday, ESPN). Pliskova defeated Serena Williams on Thursday night.

The Denver Broncos edged the Carolina Panthers, 21-20, in the N.F.L.’s season opener. Separately, the league commissioner’s application of disciplinary policy, and his unwillingness to appoint an independent arbitrator to hear appeals, has corroded the fragile trust between him and the players, who see him as judge and jury, the players’ union says.

• Life hacks.

Learn how to keep your old smartphone alive and working; pick the fastest line at the supermarket; and organize your thoughts with note-taking apps.

• Weekend recipes.

For a simple dinner, cook a fish fillet in a hot cast-iron pan and baste with butter. Here’s one way to make a delicious spinach and artichoke dip.

Back Story

Once upon a time, English speakers parted by saying “God be with you,” which was later shortened to “goodbye” to be less formal.

Photo

Being more conversational was a chief motivator for me, too, in writing these weekday morning briefings. The other was to deliver the news quickly for time-crunched readers, but with context, a dash of history and a sprinkle of humor.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

While I didn’t invent any new words or expressions like “goodbye,” I got to play a leading role in helping to reinvent a newspaper founded in 1851.

To that end, I started work by 3 a.m. on weekdays. The air at that hour is heavy with promise. (Or maybe it was just that my eyelids were heavy.) My fast-approaching deadline and the editors and photo editor waiting for me to file ensured that my eyes stayed wide open.

The benefits of the early start were having time to read all of the very latest news, mapping out which subjects to include and writing some spot analysis.

The “Back Story” sought to illuminate the day’s events, like highlighting Alexander von Humboldt’s prediction in 1800 of man-made climate change for the day the Paris climate talks began, or the State Dinner where all the guests arrived by boat, for the day the White House hosted Canada’s new prime minister.

But I also liked to have some fun, writing about a giant kite battle that has taken place for centuries in Japan; the physics of the Slinky; the origin of “serendipity”; and why Ohio has the only nonrectangular state flag. I read as much as possible to find details to make the subjects come alive.

My reward was hearing from thousands of smart readers, from teens to people in their 90s, among them a Nobel laureate and a former Senate leader. Your comments made the predawn work worthwhile, and they helped improve the briefing, which continues, as does the Back Story, without me.

It’s time for some sleep and a new newsroom job, writing for Race/Related.

Goodbye.

Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern and updated on the web all morning.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.

You can sign up here to get the briefing delivered to your inbox.