http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3761586/NASA-probe-set-make-closest-approach-Jupiter.html
81
8
A spacecraft has skimmed the clouds of Jupiter in a record-breaking close approach to the giant planet.

Juno activated its suite of nine instruments as it soared 2,600 miles (4180km) above Jupiter's swirling clouds tops, travelling at 130,000mph (209,200 km/h), on Saturday.

On schedule, the agency tweeted that Juno had successfully completed its closest ever fly-by to the planet, the first of 36, which are scheduled to end in February 2018.

NASA'S Juno probe made its closet approach yet to Jupiter on Saturday during the main phase of its planned mission to the gas giant (pictured)

Juno swung within about 2,600 miles of the solar system's largest planet, the closest any spacecraft has passed, traveling at 130,000 miles per hour

'We are getting some intriguing early data returns as we speak,' said Scott Bolton, principal investigator of Juno from the Southwest Research Institute in San Antonio.

'It will take days for all the science data collected during the flyby to be downlinked and even more to begin to comprehend what Juno and Jupiter are trying to tell us.'

Juno first swept close to Jupiter when it entered orbit around the planet early last month after a nearly five-year voyage to help study the solar system's origins.

However, all the probe's instruments were turned off not to interfere with its positioning as it entered the 53.5-day orbit.

Juno will now be probing Jupiter's many layers to measure their composition, magnetic field and other properties.

Scientists hope to learn the source of the planet's fierce winds and whether Jupiter is made entirely of gas or has a solid core.

They also expect to learn more about the planet's great red spot, a huge storm that has raged for thousands of years.

Saturday's flyby was Juno's first chance to take pictures of Jupiter's mysterious poles.

This image obtained from NASA, shows a color view from NASA's Juno spacecraft made from some of the first images taken by JunoCam after the spacecraft entered orbit around Jupiter on July 5th

NASA says it will release images from the flyby late next week.

'We are in an orbit nobody has ever been in before, and these images give us a whole new perspective on this gas-giant world,' said Bolton.

Although data from the probe is expected to reach Earth in several days, results from scientists' analysis will take longer.

'This is our first opportunity and there are bound to be surprises,' Steve Levin, Juno project scientist from NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California said.

'We need to take our time to make sure our conclusions are correct.'

Juno is set to make 35 more close passes by Jupiter during its main mission, scheduled to end in February 2018, when the probe will self-destruct by diving into the planet's atmosphere.