http://classic.iol.co.za/news/politics/zuma-in-it-all-the-way-says-ace-1.2066219
831
8
Durban - Disgruntled ANC members and veterans might as well give up their call for President Jacob Zuma to step down because, his main backer, Free State Premier Ace Magashule, says, the president is not going anywhere.

Magashule is the Free State ANC chairman, and a member of the pro-Zuma “premier league”, a group of ANC premiers with close links to the president. Other members are the party chairmen in North West, Supra Mahumapelo, and Mpumalanga, David Mabuza.

“We know that the president and the entire ANC will stay until its term ends,” said Magashule.

He and KZN Premier Willies Mchunu addressed a bilateral meeting of the provinces in Umhlanga on Thursday to strengthen their working relationship and focus on programmes aligned to the National Development Plan.

His reaction followed the Occupy Luthuli House campaign, whose ANC members had marched to the ANC headquarters in Johannesburg early this week, calling for Zuma and his entire party executive to step down.

The decline of support for the party reflected in the local government elections, in which the ANC lost the Johannesburg, Nelson Mandela Bay and Tshwane metros, had prompted a number of ANC veterans to call for an early elective conference.

Sipho Pityana, ANC veteran and former director-general of foreign affairs, made a dramatic call for Zuma to step down, during the funeral of former Eastern Cape premier Makhenkesi Stofile last month.

Other prominent figures who have spoken out against Zuma’s leadership include Cheryl Carolus, Ronnie Kasrils and former Constitutional Court judge Zak Yacoob.

However, Magashule put his foot down in defence of the party’s status quo.

“There is no way people can just come up and say Zuma must resign. They have no power to do so, they have no right to do so because the structures of the ANC always decide,” he said.

KwaZulu-Natal is known to be an ANC stronghold, but Magashule warned that the party in the province should remain vigilant because it was under siege.

“It is my frank view, and I have expressed it for some years now, that people have been targeting KZN and the Eastern Cape to be divided. It is because they know that if KZN and Eastern Cape are divided they are able to weaken the ANC.”

He said Zuma’s home province was the strength of the ANC, and the ruling party could not afford to lose it.

“When KZN is weaker we all become weaker... We are always inspired by KZN. If KZN is divided the country would be divided.”

He said internal adversaries were out to damage the ANC. Leaders and members of the ANC should strive for unity, “the key if we need to move forward, because we can see that there is a hand that is attempting to divide all of us, not just KZN”.

“That is why we always make a plea to the rest of the country to unite and raise issues internally within the structures of the ANC, and do away with this foreign tendency of masquerading out there in public,” he said.

Mchunu avoided using the government function to talk about ANC matters, but he said KZN was a pillar of the national government. He said the province and Free State had good working relationships.

Mchunu announced that the provinces had formed a technical team to collaborate on common issues of development and common crimes in both provinces.

“We believe that unity and working together in partnership is absolutely critical for our province to ensure the health of the country’s economy.

He said they had proposed that a technical team from KZN and Free State governments be constituted to work on specific areas of collaboration.

“This technical team must focus on short-term and long-term initiatives on how to implement, jointly, social economic programmes aligned to the country’s national development plan,” he said.

Mchunu said among other issues, the team would work on how to deal with cross-border crimes between the provinces and neighbouring Lesotho.

The Mercury

IOL on Twitter

IOL News on Facebook

Get our free IOL newsletters - subscribe here...