http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/Emerging-markets-rebound-as-investors-wait-for-Fed-Rand-climbs/articleshow/53867524.cms
80
8
LONDON: Emerging markets rebounded, with currencies advancing after their biggest decline in two months, as investors awaited clues on the timing of a US interest-rate increase from a speech by Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen South Africa's rand advanced after President Jacob Zuma said he had "full confidence" in Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan , following speculation the Treasury chief would be replaced that sent the currency to a four-week low. Swings in exchange rates have sent volatility for developing nation currencies to the highest in almost two months.Equities staged a comeback, with benchmarks for Turkey and Taiwan advancing at least 1%. The extra yield investors demand to hold emerging-market debt instead of Treasuries narrowed two basis points toward a one-year low.Emerging markets clawed back some of this week's losses, triggered by political and security flare-ups in South Africa, Turkey and Korea as well as speculation the US is moving closer to raising rates. Developing nation assets have benefited this year as near-zero rates in major economies drive investors toward higher-yielding assets."Investors are adjusting their positions ahead of Yellen's speech," said Christopher Shiells, a senior emerging-markets analyst at Informa Global Markets, who recommends buying the Polish zloty and selling the rand. "There is a growing sense that once Yellen is out of the way, and as long as she doesn't turn hawkish, the great global yield hunt will continue next week."Yellen is due to speak on Friday at a symposium in Jackson Hole, Wyoming Friday. Fed fund futures show the odds of a hike in 2016 have climbed to 55 percent from 47 per cent one week ago. Jackson Hole has only been a big market mover once in the past 10 years when former Fed Chairman BenS. Bernanke signaled a second round of quantitative easing in 2010, according to Bank of America Corp.The MSCI Emerging Markets Currency Index advanced 0.2 percent as of 2:10 pm in London. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index of stocks rose the same amount, climbing from the steepest drop since July 6. The premium investors demand to hold developing-nation bonds fell to 334 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.South Africa's rand strengthened 0.3 percent, after tumbling 5.6 percent in the previous four days. The rand fell on Wednesday after a special police investigative unit told Gordhan to report to its offices on Thursday as part of an investigation into irregularities at the country's tax authority .Gordhan said he had done nothing wrong by authorizing the establishment of a special investigative unit when he headed the national tax agency and wouldn't comply. The presidency said in a statement on Thursday that Zuma "wishes to express his full support and confidence in the minister of finance and emphasizes the fact that the minister has not been found guilty of any wrongdoing."The yield on rand-denominated bonds due in December 2026 dropped six basis points to 9 per cent.South Korea's won strengthened 0.6 percent against the greenback, recovering a loss yesterday after North Korea launched a ballistic missile test. Malaysia's ringgit and the Chilean peso climbed more than 0.5 per cent. Emerging-market currency volatility closed at 10.24 per cent on Wednesday , the highest since July 6, JPMorgan indexes show.Turkish local-currency bonds rose, sending the yield down eight basis points to 9.73 per cent, the lowest level in more than a week. The rate on similar-maturity Russian debt fell two basis points to 8.32 per cent.A rally that has seen emerging-market bonds post their best returns this year since 2009 has further to go as valuations and fundamentals contin ue to look attractive, BlackRock Inc. money manager Amer Bisat told Bloomberg Television on Wednesday ."In a world in which core fixed income is still offering you no rates or no yield or negative yield, emerging markets stand out like a sore thumb," Bisat said. "We are still overweight emerging markets and we feel very comfortable with that position."The MSCI equity gauge has climbed 2.9 per cent this month, compared with a 0.4 per cent advance for the MSCI World Index of developed-country shares. Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. climbed 2 per cent on Thursday , helping Taiwan's Taiex index to the biggest gain among major emerging markets.The Borsa Istanbul 100 Index snapped a three-day decline, rising 1 per cent. Turkish stocks slumped the most in three weeks Wednesday as the country launched its biggest military operation in Syria to keep the Islamic State group away from its border.