http://www.mirror.co.uk/tech/funniest-reactions-iphone-7-launched-8791508
84
8
Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

The video will start in

Apple has unveiled its next new handset, the iPhone 7, in grand fashion at an event in San Francisco.

The conference was live-streamed across the world as fans of the tech giant eagerly caught a glimpse of the next big thing.

New features have caused ripples of excitement - but the price and the scrapping of old features such as the headphone jack and the price are causing so much angst online.

Here's how social media reacted to the new iphone.

1. Arthur made an appearance

The decision to get rid of the headphone jack hasn't been the most popular in the world.

2. As did the 'world's smallest hair dryers'

I don't care if I do get two...$200 bucks is too much for the world's smallest hair dryers #iPhone7 #LOL pic.twitter.com/78axOHaIsB — tonystarkradio (@tonystarkradio) September 7, 2016

(They're actually wireless AirPods, which will set you back £160 and you can read more about here ).

3. And people joked about the price

When you can't afford the #iphone7 pic.twitter.com/qBQGjS3wdq — Ivy Bad Azz (@LilIvy_8) September 7, 2016

Some people thought they'd have to resort to drastic measures to get AirPods because they can't afford the new phone.

We're not sure they'll work, though...

4. Wires? So retro

*In Future *

Only 90's kids will remember this #Tangled Earphones #iPhone7 pic.twitter.com/lPm35A0wxQ — Paridecay (@sarcastictroler) September 7, 2016

When 90s kids try to explain technology to their own children, we'll have to really try to get across the pain of wasting hours of your life untangling wires.

Because they're not going to have a clue.

Video loading Watch next Watch this video again Watch Next Click to play Tap to play The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

5. Conspiracy theories were rife

iPhone 7 is announced, all of a sudden my iPhone 6 starts acting super slow pic.twitter.com/IDAC9e63wQ — Anthony Bartoloni (@YoAnty1) September 8, 2016

Funny how that happens, isn't it? It's almost as if we need to buy an expensive new phone.

6. One woman saw a problem with the AirPods

Wireless headphones in a hijab is going to look like I'm talking to myself. As if people didn't fear me enough. #Hijabiproblems #iPhone7 — Rowaida Abdelaziz (@Rowaida_Abdel) September 7, 2016

Which made people laugh out loud.

7. And we're going to need a new app for them...

They better have 'Find My #AirPods' for the price of those headphones… #AppleEvent pic.twitter.com/aMhCW4Vzin — Sāvion (@SavionWright) September 7, 2016

How are we going to stop ourselves from losing the headphones if there's nothing to attach them to!?

8. Fancy camera can't fix some things

iPhone 7 is upgrading the cameras, but too bad I'm still ugly — Mary Jade (@J_denL_rsen) September 8, 2016

Even a dual-lens camera won't make us good-looking. But maybe try a Snapchat filter?

9. There's only one benefit

Benefits of having an iPhone 7



1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10. You look rich. — Ayim (@khairunnaim5) September 8, 2016

Basically the only reason anyone would buy an iPhone 7.

Apart from that fancy camera.

10. Still no group FaceTime?

when you spend 900 for an iPhone 7 but it don't got group FaceTime pic.twitter.com/Up0hrwP9FM — amanu (@gymleaderamanu) September 8, 2016

For some reason, many people are very angry that there's no group FaceTime function.

They want to be able to see ALL their friends' lovely faces at the same time, but it's still not possible.