http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3759607/Billionaire-driver-19-learn-Rolls-Royce.html
84
8
A 19-year-old 'billionaire' playboy with a fleet of luxury cars will learn to drive in a Rolls-Royce after his £100,000 gold-plated Maserati was impounded by police.

Officers forced Hamza Sheikh to hand over his keys to the supercar last week after he was penalised for driving without insurance.

Police grew suspicious when they saw his Maserati GranCabrio being driven through Kingston with L-plates on.

Mr Sheikh, from Mayfair, has a variety of luxury cars to choose - worth more than a £1million

The Pakistani-born teenager could be summonsed to court to pay at least a £300 fine and be docked six points on his licence for driving an uninsured car

The property developer who also studies business management at Regent’s University had the indignity of police posting a photograph of his impounded Maserati

Most 19-year-olds have to make do with an old Ford Fiesta or similar when they learn to drive but not Hamza Sheikh who has a whole collection of luxury cars

Mr Sheikh sits on top of his gold-painted Maserati which is worth £100,000 when new

The Pakistani-born teenager could be summonsed to court to pay at least a £300 fine and be docked six points on his licence. His supercar was impounded for two days.

But it's no issue for Mr Sheikh, from Mayfair, who said he still had a variety of luxury cars to choose - worth more than a £1million.

He told the Evening Standard he would just 'drive in a Rolls-Royce with insurance'.

'I have a Rolls-Royce and a Range Rover. I am just waiting for my new gold Lamborghini to be delivered in the meantime,' he said.

'Since I was young I have been learning to drive in supercars — I’ve also learnt in a Porsche Panamera, so a Maserati is a piece of cake.'

The Maserati has a 4.7litre V8 engine which pushes out 444 brake horse power

Officers forced Hamza Sheikh to hand over his keys to the supercar last week after he was penalised for driving without insurance

Police grew suspicious when when they saw his Maserati GranCabrio being driven through Kingston with L-plates

The property developer who also studies business management at Regent’s University had the indignity of police posting a photograph of his impounded Maserati on Twitter with the words: '#NoInsuranceNoCar.'

Mr Sheikh explained the reason for his driving indiscretion was because his 'busy lifestyle' meant he missed a letter from his insurance company.

His Maserati is painted in the metallic colour because he is the 'golden child' of his family, he added.

In April Mr Sheikh also fell foul of traffic rules when he received a parking ticket near Hyde Park.

Britain's supercar season is currently in full swing, with hundreds of flashy vehicles flown into London from the Middle East over the summer.

This month a chrome Mercedes-Benz McLaren and silver Lamborghini Aventador were among the supercars spotted in the capital.

The arrival has become a regular event, with rich Arabs trying to outdo each other with their modified cars.