http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/giant-rodent-big-labrador-loose-9008940
84
8
The escaped Capybara when it was spotted in Empingham by a passer-by

A giant rodent the size of a Labrador is on the loose after breaking out of its enclosure.

The 18-month-old South American Capybara's owner Vernon Moore has been desperately trying to lure the wayward creature back for the last month.

It's thought it escaped its cage in Wymondham, Leicestershire, after a territorial battle with his brother combined with a lust for love, the Leicester Mercury reports.

He was last spotted by a stream in Empingham, on the shores of Rutland Water, about two weeks ago.

Mr Moore, managing director of Moores Estate Agents, said: "He's absolutely harmless, he's just like an overgrown guinea pig.

"They come from the Amazon rainforest, they are quite secretive and only come out of the water at night to feed. He's been gone for about a month."

Getty The rodent was last seen in Rutland Water (file image) about two weeks ago

He added:"I got two of them as babies. As well as a bit of a territorial dispute with his brother now they're getting bigger, I think he may have got fed up and got out of the enclosure in search of a mate."

Mr Moore, who also keeps rare birds and ducks, birds of prey, wallabies and maras - another large relative of the guinea pig - added:"I've been baiting a cage with food since I heard about where he'd been spotted.

"I'm hoping that now the crops have been harvested there will be less for him to eat and he'll be tempted by the bait.

"I've been asked why I don't dart him, but he would probably drown as they spend most of their time in water. I'm hoping to recapture him within the next couple of weeks."

Ian McGlynn took a photo of the animal while out walking a couple of weeks ago.

The 80-year-old said: "It looked like a small sheep, at first I thought it was a Coypu, another large rodent.

"I go out for a walk three or four times a week and I saw it just off a public footpath about midday. I was very interested to find out it was a Capybara."

Mr Moore, who is licensed to keep his menagerie, said the RSPCA and the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) are aware and happy with his recapture plans.

He has also found a new home for him at a farm park in Yorkshire where the Capybara can live when he is captured.

He added: "He'll be much happier there. He wants his own territory and female to live with and that's what he'll get.

"They have two females there and I'll get the other one for his brother, so there will be a bit of a breeding programme set up."