http://www.thestar.com.my/business/business-news/2016/10/13/genting-hong-kong-to-put-in-more-money-in-shipyard/
841
8
Gaming company to invest additional RM462mil in MV Werften

BREMERHAVEN, GERMANY: Genting Hong Kong Ltd will be investing an additional 160 million euros (RM462mil) for the company’s newly acquired German shipyard, MV Werften.

The company, in which resort operator Genting Malaysia Bhd disposed of a 16.87% stake last month, will have pumped in a total of 260 million euros, together with the recent additional investment, into the shipyard. The investment will be used to build new large ships.

Chairman Tan Sri Lim Kok Thay said the additional investments were needed to stay competitive and to enhance the shipyard with more advanced technology.

“It is not surprising that the figure may go up to 300 million euros. We need to equip it with the state-of-the-art technology. We will equip the yard with more robotics,” Lim told Malaysian journalists prior to the handover ceremony of its latest cruise ship, Genting Dream.

Lim: ‘We will equip the yard with more robotics.’

The Genting Dream, worth US$1bil, would focused on the fast-growing Chinese cruise market. German shipbuilder, Meyer Werft, officially handed Genting Dream over to Dream Cruises yesterday in a traditional changing of flag ceremony.

During the ceremony, Meyer Werft and Germany flags were lowered and the flags of Dream Cruises and Bahamas were raised to signify the official transfer of the ship to Dream Cruises.

In his speech, Lim said Genting Hong Kong hopes to build more ships in partnership with Meyer Werft, despite being seen as a competitor.

“We can continue to look forward for the baby sister (World Dream) in 12 months time,” Lim said, referring to Genting Dream’s sister ship.

Genting Dream will depart Germany and sail to her homeport in Guangzhou, China, via Gibraltar, the Mediterranean Sea, the Suez Canal and the Indian Ocean.

She will visit India, Singapore, Vietnam and Hong Kong before arriving in Guangzhou on Nov 13, 2016.

Genting Dream will be able to accommodate 3,400 guests in 1,674 staterooms, including the “Dream Mansion”, an exclusive “ship-within-a-ship” complex featuring two floors of suites with European-style butler service.