http://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-3784048/Joel-Edgerton-cuts-casual-figure-brown-page-boy-hat-denim-jeans-Instyle-s-annual-celebration-Toronto-s-International-Film-Festival.html
13
1
He's Hollywood's man of the moment after receiving tremendous applause for his film Loving at the Cannes premiere in May.

And Joel Edgerton appeared to be all smiles as he stepped out onto the red carpet for the Hollywood Foreign Press Association and InStyle's annual celebration of the Toronto International Film Festival.

Cutting a casual figure in a brown page boy hat, black suede jacket and dark blue jeans the 42-year-old actor bared a grin while speaking to celebrity friend, Nicole Kidman, at Saturday's red carpet event.

Scroll down for video

All smiles! Joel Edgerton appeared to be all smiles as he stepped out onto the red carpet for the Hollywood Foreign Press Association and InStyle's annual celebration of the Toronto International Film Festival

Wearing a brown page boy hat, his face was framed and accentuated his piercing blue eyes which gazed at photographers taking snaps for the evening.

Whether the climate was chilly has not been revealed, but the Great Gatsby actor opted to button up his black suede jacket revealing a navy and white striped shirt below.

Briefly distracted from the cameras, Joel turned to greet Nicole Kidman who was also in attendance at the event and appeared to be mid-embrace.

Casual: Wearing a brown page boy hat, his face was framed and accentuated his piercing blue eyes which gazed at photographers taking snaps for the evening

Friends in high places: Briefly distracted from the cameras, Joel turned to greet Nicole Kidman who was also in attendance at the event and appeared to be mid-embrace

Nicole, wore her famous fiery red hair sleek and out for the occasion and dangling earrings could be seen peeking from behind the long locks.

The famed 49-year-old actress wore a body hugging red and dark maroon striped dress which had a sequin detail to it.

She toted a small rectangular clutch in her hand as she spoke to Joel on the red carpet and appeared to be enthralled in conversation - not turning to face the cameras.

Transformation: Joel Edgerton went from cutting a casual figure during the day to looking dapper at night as he attended Tom Ford's New York Fashion Week show on Wednesday

The AACTA-winner was spotted at the front row at Tom Ford's Autumn/Winner presentation on Wednesday.

Looking smart in a black suit and tie, the Blacktown-born heartthrob posed for photographers at the star-studded event.

He completed the ensemble with black dress shoes and also sported his signature black frames.

Dapper: The AACTA-winner changed into a black suit and tie as he attended Tom Ford's show

Last month, Joel was reported to be in 'early talks' to appear in the spy thriller Red Sparrow alongside Oscar-winner Jennifer Lawrence, according to Deadline.

It comes after Joel received almost unanimous praise from critics for his latest film Loving.

The Australian star plays lead character Richard Loving, who is sentenced to prison in Virginia in 1958 for entering into an interracial marriage with partner Mildred, played by Ruth Negga.

Sought-after: The heartthrob is in talks of starring alongside Jennifer Lawrence in the spy thriller Red Sparrow next year

Late last year, the Hollywood actor revealed that he wasn't deemed attractive enough to star in the heavily beach-centric Australian soaps at the beginning of his career in the late '90s.

He told the UK's Telegraph: 'I just wasn't that pretty, to be honest! They didn't want me on a surfboard.'

'And back then I was a little bit judgmental about the soapy stuff. I was working happily in the theatre,' he explained.