http://www.4-traders.com/news/Probe-Looks-at-Now-Closed-Queens-Restaurant-Whose-Owner-Has-Ties-to-Mayor--23064899/
80
8
By Rebecca Davis O'Brien and Josh Dawsey

Federal authorities investigating possible corruption in New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio's administration are looking into a now-closed Queens restaurant that leased land from the city and whose owner has political ties to the mayor, people familiar with the matter said.

The U.S. attorney's office in Manhattan and the Federal Bureau of Investigation are examining whether officials in the mayor's office tried to dissuade a city agency from pursuing inquiries into the finances of Water's Edge restaurant and tried to influence decisions made by the agency regarding financial terms of the lease, these people said.

The agency -- the Department of Citywide Administrative Services, which handles leases of city property -- ended up auditing the restaurant and found that it owed more than $1.7 million in rent and fees. The restaurant has disputed what the city says it owes.

A spokesman for the mayor's office said: "We're absolutely confident we acted appropriately in this matter" and declined to comment further.

The restaurant's owner, Harendra Singh, donated to the mayor's 2013 campaign and served on several committees advancing Mr. de Blasio's initiatives. Joseph Goldberg, a lawyer listed as representing Mr. Singh and his company, Quinn Restaurant Corp., declined to comment.

Authorities have issued subpoenas and conducted interviews related to the Water's Edge inquiry, people familiar with the matter said. The Long Island City restaurant, which featured views of the Manhattan skyline, has been closed since late last year.

For months, federal authorities have been investigating whether the mayor and his allies violated any laws by promising city benefits in exchange for political contributions. Neither Mr. de Blasio nor his closest aides have been accused of any wrongdoing. The mayor has said he and his aides have followed all laws.

Mr. Singh was arrested in September 2015 in a separate investigation and was charged by federal prosecutors in Brooklyn with 13 counts, including conspiracy, disaster assistance fraud and obstruction of justice.

Prosecutors alleged Mr. Singh ran a number of schemes through his restaurant and concession businesses on Long Island, including paying bribes and kickbacks to local officials in exchange for millions of dollars in loans.

Mr. Singh pleaded not guilty last year to those charges. Anthony La Pinta, a lawyer representing Mr. Singh in the Brooklyn federal case, didn't respond to a request for comment. Mr. Singh, who was released on bail last month, couldn't be reached for comment.

A spokeswoman for the U.S. attorney's office in Brooklyn and a spokesman for the U.S. attorney's office in Manhattan declined to comment.

Federal prosecutors in Manhattan and the FBI have focused their Water's Edge inquiry, in part, on the mayor's office's dealings with the Department of Citywide Administrative Services and whether his administration tried to discourage the agency from auditing the restaurant, people familiar with the matter said.

The agency is responsible for the renting of city property, including Water's Edge's lease of the Nott Avenue Pier and adjacent land near the East River.

The same agency is under scrutiny for its role in removing deed restrictions on a Lower East Side health facility, a deal that paved the way for a donor to Mr. de Blasio to make an apparent $72 million profit and which is now also under investigation by federal prosecutors. The mayor has said the city shouldn't have modified the deed.

For years, Water's Edge was a popular venue for weddings and political events. Mr. Singh became a fixture in New York City and Long Island political circles.

On a recent afternoon, people sat on the now-closed restaurant's steps eating bags of chips and sandwiches after a shift at a nearby bar. The area around the restaurant was strewn with litter.

When Mr. Singh took ownership of Water's Edge in early 2009, the restaurant was struggling financially. A 2008 city audit found that the restaurant under its prior owner hadn't complied with "major provisions" of its lease and had widespread accounting irregularities. The restaurant owed more than $86,000 in rent and late charges, along with more than $110,000 in water, sewer, and electrical bills, and had failed to maintain the pier, the audit found.

Mr. Singh invested more than $1 million in repairs to the restaurant and improved business practices after the previous owners left, according to court documents filed by his attorneys.

Mr. de Blasio's ties to Mr. Singh and Water's Edge date back to his tenure as public advocate. In December 2010, Mr. Singh donated $2,500 to Mr. de Blasio, and Mr. de Blasio spoke at a breakfast at Water's Edge that cost of $35 a ticket, records show.

Water's Edge was the site of at least two fundraisers for Mr. de Blasio, one in March 2011 and another in October 2013. Mr. Singh bundled more than $10,000 from donors for Mr. de Blasio's 2013 mayoral race, according to campaign-finance records. Employees and family members of Mr. Singh also collectively gave at least $10,000 in donations between 2011 and 2013, according to the records.

After taking office in 2014, Mr. de Blasio appointed Mr. Singh to a number of committees, including a group pushing for an expansion of prekindergarten and another panel that unsuccessfully tried to bring the 2016 Democratic National Convention to Brooklyn.

On Feb. 2, 2015, a lawyer for the Department of Citywide Administrative Services filed a motion in state court in Queens seeking $1.39 million in back rent and fees from the restaurant. The motion requested Mr. Singh's company be evicted.

In response to the city's eviction proceedings, Mr. Singh and the restaurant corporation filed a lawsuit against the city, alleging the city had miscalculated the rent and had caused the restaurant financial harm by, among other things, removing an adjacent pier, which had fallen into disrepair. The city has denied these allegations.

In February, the city's Economic Development Corp. released requests for proposals to redevelop a swath of the Long Island City waterfront, including part of the Water's Edge property.