https://article.wn.com/view/2016/09/16/Watch_5_New_Whistleblowers_Who_Spoke_Out_Since_Snowden/
80
8
The subject of the Oliver Stone film " Snowden " (in theaters Friday) blazed a path for others to speak out against government and corporate injustice.

This is the age of the whistleblower. From Chelsea Manning to Edward Snowden to the latest cloak-and-dagger lifter of files, ex-HSBC employee Hervé Falciani, whistleblowers...

4.30pm GMT16:30 Lord Fink, Tory peer, accuses Miliband of slandering him at PMQs Lord Fink, the Conservative peer, has written to Ed Miliband accusing Miliband of...

--> Corps Diplomatique | In today’s world of ‘leaks’, data is king; a commodity which is deliverable and whistleblowers are messengers that need all type of judicial and...

Bernie Sanders, Daniel Ellsberg, former members of the NSA and more weigh in on whether Obama should grant clemency to the divisive whistleblower @edpilkington Bernie...

"Can we have a workable system that lets whistleblowers follow their own principled dissent without having them destroyed in the process?" In a Democracy Now! broadcast...

Related News

Edward Snowden: Silencing whistleblowers imperils democracy By Karen Matthews, The Associated Press NEW YORK — National Security Agency leaker Edward Snowden on Wednesday thanked supporters who launched a campaign for his pardon and said for the sake of democracy, future whistleblowers must not be silenced. Speaking by video link from Moscow, where he has been in exile since 2013, Snowden said that while the Founding Fathers created... Denver Post





Snowden: Silencing whistleblowers imperils democracy NEW YORK (AP) -- National Security Agency leaker Edward Snowden on Wednesday thanked supporters who launched a campaign for his pardon and said for the sake of democracy, future whistleblowers must not be silenced. Speaking by video link from Moscow, where he has been in exile since 2013, Snowden said that while the Founding Fathers created checks and balances to guard against... The Associated Press





Profile: HSBC whistleblower Herve Falciani Revelations that HSBC, one of the world's largest banks, helped some of its wealthy clients evade hundreds of millions of dollars worth of tax have made headlines across the world, but who is the man who lifted the lid on the scandal? On 22 December 2008, police in Switzerland detained Herve Falciani in Geneva. They interrogated the computer systems analyst for several hours,... BBC News





Eight things we would never have learnt without whistleblowers A Royal Navy submariner's claim that the UK’s Trident nuclear programme is a “disaster waiting to happen” has seemingly placed him in the ranks of whistleblowers who put everything on the line to expose a wider truth. Seaman William McNeilly, whose claims are strongly denied by the Navy, is now being held by police after handing himself in. Here are seven other notable... Belfast Telegraph



