http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3739799/Peru-Two-drugs-mule-Michaella-McCollum-returns-home-Ireland-five-months-released-jail.html
84
8
Drug mule Michaella McCollum has returned home following three years in South America after reportedly doing a deal with Peruvian authorities.

The 23-year-old drug smuggler from Co. Tyrone arrived in Dublin Airport on Saturday night on a flight from London Gatwick after departing from Peru on Friday.

McCollum, originally from Dungannon, was arrested in Lima Airport in August 2013 along with Scottish woman Melissa Reid, with €1.75 million worth of cocaine.

Michaella McCollum is seen outside her home in Dungannon, Co. Tyrone, after arriving back into Dublin Airport on a flight from London Gatwick after departing from Peru on Friday

Peru Two drugs mule Michaella McCollum arrives back in Ireland after touching down in Dublin (pictured leaving the airport), five months after being released from prison in Lima

The pair – who were dubbed the ‘Peru Two’ – were each sentenced to six years and eight months in jail after admitting to trying to smuggle cocaine out of Peru.

McCollum was released on parole last March after serving less than half of her sentence but was required to stay in Peru.

She has since been carrying out voluntary work under the leadership of Fr Seán Walsh of the Columban Fathers Mission in Peru.

A now-blonde McCollum was pictured on Saturday at Dublin Airport wearing a black top and jeans with a khaki sleeveless jacket and carrying two large black suitcases.

She refused to speak to the waiting media on touching down.

It is believed that a deal has been done with Peruvian authorities in recent weeks that enables McCollum to complete the remainder of her sentence in Ireland.

Terms of her deportation are unclear but it is expected she will have to see out the terms of her parole. It has also been suggested that McCollum may continue her voluntary work with the Columban Fathers Mission which has headquarters in Navan, Co. Meath.

The Mission was unable to confirm such reports yesterday.

Beaming for the camera the drugs mule posted selfies on Instagram yesterday, as she prepared for take-off on board a flight destined for London

She also said a special goodbye to her flatmate Jackie, who she met while serving time in prison

Before leaving Peru, McCollum said her goodbyes to the friends she made in Peru, bidding a special farewell to flatmate and best friend Jackie who served time in the notorious Ancon Dos prison with Michaella for similar drug charges.

After accompanying Michaella – who now appears to be more religious – to the airport, Jackie posted a farewell collage of pictures taken during their time together, and wrote: ‘I will miss u baby gurl. The secret and the magic was God. Amen. Everything was possible to Him wen u believe in him.’

In June 2013, McCollum travelled to Balearic island Ibiza to work as a dancer in a bar for that summer.

On July 31, Reid flew to South America while McCollum followed a day later. On August 6, McCollum was reported missing to the Police Service of Northern Ireland by her family, the same day as her arrest.

The pair were found in possession of 11kg of cocaine hidden inside food packets in their luggage as they prepared to board a flight from Lima to Madrid. They initially protested their innocence and McCollum lied about being held captive for several days before being flown to Peru.

In December 2013 the pair were jailed for six years and eight months after finally admitting to trying to smuggle the cocaine out of Peru.

The former dancer, from Dungannon, was arrested at Lima airport in August 2013 along with Scot Melissa Reid as they tried to smuggle £1.5million worth of cocaine in food bags from Peru to Spain

The pair - nicknamed the 'Peru Two' - were jailed for six years and eight months after admitting the offence

In an interview with RTé after her release, McCollum described the decision to carry the drugs for money as ‘a moment of madness’.

‘I made a decision in a moment of madness but I’m not a bad person,’ she said, speaking from Peru. ‘I want to demonstrate that I’m a good person and to do something good. Obviously I regret the harm that I’ve done and so much suffering that I’ve caused to my family and to myself. Obviously in the time here I thought if the drugs had have got back what would have happened?

‘I probably would have had a lot of blood on my hands. I potentially could have filled Europe full of a lot of drugs. I could have potentially killed a lot of people, not directly but I could have caused a lot of harm to people.’

After being released on parole in March, McCollum gave an interview to Irish broadcaster RTE, where she acknowledged the potentially devastating consequences if she had successfully smuggled the drugs back to Europe

When McCollum was released from jail in Peru in March, her infamous 'hair donut' do had been replaced with long blonde locks

In the interview McCollum sported a totally new look in comparison to when she was arrested in 2013, with her brunette bun hairstyle replaced with sleek dyed blonde locks.

‘The guilt is something I have to live with for the rest of my life,’ she added. ‘I try not to think about it because it makes me hate myself to be capable of causing that much pain and suffering.’

Reid returned to her native Scotland in June where she will serve the rest of her sentence on parole.

Reid arrived back to her home in Lenzie, near Glasgow in June after being expelled from the South American country under an early release scheme for deporting first-time drug offenders

The 22-year-old from Lenzie, Dunbartonshire, said following her release: ‘I knew what I was doing.

‘I made a conscious decision to do it and no-one forced me. I never worried about being caught. I never really thought about what I was doing,’ she said.

‘I think I wanted to be this big person that I’m not.