http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/labours-defence-policy-chaos-after-8919570
14
1
Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

The video will start in

Labour's defence policy is in chaos after Jeremy Corbyn ’s aides deleted a key pledge on nukes from a colleague’s conference speech - just as he took to the stage.

Shadow Defence Secretary Clive Lewis was left fuming after his plan to announce support for Trident nuclear submarines was axed by the leader’s office.

The former Army officer was so angry he punched a wall afterwards, witnesses said.

Mr Lewis only learned of the humiliating cut to his speech when he was handed a Post-It note informing him of the last-minute change, just as he walked onto the stage.

Video emerged of the shocked MP typing a message on his phone as he sat on the conference platform seconds before his speech.

Andy Commins Clive Lewis was forced to change a line in his speech minutes before he delivered it

He had been poised to tell delegates: “As you know, I am sceptical about Trident renewal, as are many here.

“But I am clear that our Party has a policy for Trident renewal – and I wouldn’t seek to change it.”

Instead, he only said: “As you know, I am sceptical about Trident renewal, as are many here.

“But I am clear that our Party has a policy for Trident renewal.”

Sources confirmed the key line - announcing “I wouldn’t seek to change it” - was scrapped by Mr Corbyn’s team only moments earlier.

Clive Lewis was said to be so furious he punched a wall

It is believed Mr Corbyn’s office came under pressure from his trade union allies to ditch the crucial line.

Mr Corbyn was forced to deny the two men had fallen out, insisting he gave Mr Lewis a “bear hug” when he came off stage.

But it leaves Labour’s position on nuclear weapons in chaos for the second successive year.

Official party policy still backs building the new boats, but Labour remains deeply divided.

Most grassroots members, and Mr Corbyn himself, are fiercely opposed, while a majority of Labour MPs are in favour of replacing the subs.

Christopher Furlong Jeremy Corbyn insists he gave Clive Lewis a "bear hug" when he came off stage

Mr Corbyn – a veteran anti-nukes campaigner - had been expected to try to force through a change to party policy after becoming leader.

But with the big trade unions still vehemently pro-nukes, he ducked the fight at last year’s conference and looks set to continue to do so.

Despite having had his speech amended, Mr Lewis insisted he is standing firm.

“I won’t be coming back to conference between now and the next election to try to undo the policy we have on Trident as things stand,” he said.

And he later told a private meeting of MPs: “There’s no point in picking a scab. Let’s park (this issue). We have our policy, we now just need to move on.”

AFP/Getty Images Shadow Secretary of State for Defence Clive Lewis said he would not be backing down on his pledge

CND chairwoman Kate Hudson accused Mr Lewis of reneging on Mr Corbyn’s pledge to scrap the nuclear weapons system.

She said: “There is enormous opposition to Trident replacement within the Labour Party and there will be huge disappointment at this U-turn by Clive Lewis.

“We have no doubt that Labour members will work to oppose this disastrous announcement and bring a democratic debate to Labour’s conference next year.

“This issue is too important for Britain’s future to be left to questions of political tactics.”

However a huge row could still be brewing at next year’s conference after the Mirror uncovered a plot by Corbyn loyalists to force a vote through the back door.

Corbyn-supporting CND activists told a fringe meeting they want to place anti-nuclear campaigners on a key party decision-making body.

Christopher Furlong Jeremy Corbyn has a strong anti-nuclear weapons stance

Senior members hope to win seats on Labour’s little-known Conference Arrangements Committee (CAC).

The committee decides which topics will be debated each year, and so holds ultimate control of whether a vote on trident will ever take place.

Pro-Corbyn activist Christine Shawcroft told a CND fringe event: “Next year there will be an election for two seats on the Conference Arrangements Committee, and for years and years these seats have been held by ministers,

by shadow ministers with good name recognition, so people have voted for them,” she said.

Urging activists to back anti-nuke candidates this time, she pleaded:

“Please can everyone vote for them and maybe then we will actually get the debate we want on the floor of conference?”

Meanwhile a separate battle for control of the party will play out at the conference as Scottish and Welsh Labour try to push through a plan to give them seats on Labour’s ruling executive.

Reuters Kezia Dugdale is expected to push through plans for seats on Labour's ruling executive

Mr Corbyn has been resisting the idea, as neither Scottish Labour leader Kezia Dugdale nor Welsh First Minister Carwyn Jones are supportive of his leadership.

It means he would lose his majority on the Labour Party ’s most important rule-making body.

But the executive approved the plan against his wishes and it will now be put to a crunch vote for conference delegates.

Labour’s former shadow Scottish secretary Ian Murray – the party’s only remaining MP in Scotland - warned Mr Corbyn that blocking the plan could kill off Scottish Labour for good.

He said the SNP have painted Scottish Labour as a mere ‘branch office’ of the Westminster party and that it was “critical” Ms Dugdale is given extra powers.

“It is utterly critical that this goes through,” he told a fringe meeting.

Western Mail Carwyn Jones also wants seats in the ruling exec

“Be under no illusions that the ‘branch office’ tag that the Scottish Labour Party got has completely destroyed the Labour Party in Scotland.

“Kez has fought tooth and nail to get these changes through.

“If certain people run a campaign to vote these rules down, they are in danger of shutting the Scottish Labour party down.”

Mr Murray also hit out at Unite chief Len McCluskey after he called on those opposed to Mr Corbyn to leave the party.

In a firebrand attack in his conference speech, Mr McCluskey told rebel MPs: “Unite the party and back its leadership so that we can all fight together.

“I say to the merchants of doom - in the words of Shakespeare’s Henry V - if you have no stomach for this fight, depart the battlefields.”

A fuming Mr Murray said he was “disappointed” by the Unite boss’s speech.

Ian Murray has warned the plans could kill of Labour in Scotland for good

“Let me be clear - we are a broad church,” the Edinburgh MP said.

“I will not be leaving the Labour Party .”

Mr Murray said he will only now return to the shadow cabinet if Mr Corbyn “rips up the de-selection list” targeting rebels MPs which he believes has been drawn up in the leader’s office.

And he said bringing back shadow cabinet elections is also a deal-breaker.

Mr Murray said: “If there’s a genuine need for unity in the Labour Party ,

there’s only one person who can sort it – it is the leader.

“So I say quite clearly to Jeremy I am willing to serve in his shadow cabinet if he meets us part way. Bring back shadow cabinet elections.”

Mr Corbyn is still resisting the plan however, meaning only around a dozen of the 63 MPs who resigned from his frontbench in June are expected to return.

It emerged last night the first will be Stalybridge MP Jonny Reynolds, who is poised to become the new shadow City minister.