http://www.standardmedia.co.ke/article/2000218550/iebc-commissioners-issue-resignation-notice-to-president-uhuru
84
8


Updated Wed, October 5th 2016 at 12:27 GMT +3

FROM LEFT (FRONT): National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich, Chief of Staff and Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua, IEBC chairman Isack Hassan and other officials address the Press after a meeting at Harambee House, Nairobi. [PHOTO: DAVID GICHURU/ STANDARD]

Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) commissioners have issued a resignation notice to President Uhuru Kenyatta.

At the same time the commissioners are seeking to remain in office until a new team of IEBC commissioners is recruited.

IEBC bosses reached a deal with the government last week, paving the way for the Treasury to release their hefty send-off packages.

The golden handshake for the commissioners that was part of proposals by the Joint Parliamentary Select Committee on IEBC, include forfeited salaries and allowances, and gratuity for the years they served.

Joseph Kinyua, the Head of Public Service who led the government team that handled the commissioners’ exit, said the negotiations were held strictly under the law and parliamentary recommendations.

“The negotiations have been guided by the need to strike a balance between public interest, legal and constitutional demands, the contract of appointment to office of each commissioner and the guideline of the Salaries and Remuneration Commission,” Mr Kinyua said at a press briefing after the meeting.

“The negotiations were done in good faith, and we are in agreement with the final position adopted today,” Mr Hassan said. He thanked Kenyans for giving them a chance to serve.

He called for the speedy recruitment of their successors to prevent stalling of the electoral process.

“We call for the expedited process of recruitment of new commissioners in order to forestall and extended period of notice and to further ensure that public expectations are met without undue delay,” he said.

Two weeks ago, CORD leaders had threatened to resume anti-IEBC protests if the current commissioners fail to leave office.