http://www.indiatimes.com/news/india/with-34-crpf-personnel-killed-by-naxals-in-2016-internal-security-can-t-be-thrown-to-the-wind-262874.html
841
8
While the Indian armed forces are engaged in a decisive battle against the cross border terrorism sponsored by Pakistan, there are equally serious concerns about the internal security and the lives of the security personnel taking on the Naxals in various parts of the country. As many as 34 CRPF personnel reportedly have lost their lives so far in guerilla attacks by naxals in 2016, yet the government seems clueless about how how minimize the fatalities of the security personnel.

ALSO READ: 188 Maoists And Naxal Sympathisers Surrender To Indian Forces

Just last month, 7 security officials have died in naxal attacks.

BCCL

In the year 2014, The Indian Express reported that 2,712 central and state security force personnel have been killed in naxal attacks in the 2 preceding decades. The worst-affected state by the naxal crisis in India is Chattisgarh, where naxal attacks and death of civilians at the hands of the extremists had become a regular matter.

"South Chhattisgarh continues to pose the biggest challenge for security forces where almost 11,000 sq kms has no presence of security forces, which gives the Maoists the liberty to unleash their free reign. However, it is only a matter of time before the void is filled," CRPF Director General Prakash Mishra said in an interview in 2015.

ALSO READ: This Specially Trained All-Women Battalion Is Set To Take On Naxals On Their Home Turf

19 CRPF jawans killed this year while countering attacks in Chattisgarh.



BCCL

India ranks sixth in the terror index's inflicted countries in the world. And 2016 has seen some very dangerous attacks by the naxal force.

On July 10, 2016, at least 100 naxals attacked an Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) camp in Kondagaon district of Chhattisgarh. The group also fired locally made rockets during the three-hour battle. 10 jawans were killed in the attack due to a powerful landmine.

ALSO READ: Mehendi On Her Hands Is Yet To Fade, She Mourns Her Husband CRPF Jawan Diwakar Kumar's Death

The government responded by approving the formation of a unique 'Bastariya Battalion' in the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), comprised solely of local men from scheduled tribes (ST), to bolster the fight against Maoists in Chhattisgarh.