https://www.yahoo.com/news/democracy-lab-weekly-brief-october-163157154.html
81
8
To keep up with Democracy Lab in real time, follow us on Twitter and Facebook. Eszter Zalan presents an in-depth look at Hungary’s populist prime minister Viktor Orban — where he came from, what he wants, and what he’s up to next. Christian Caryl warns that, for all of Hillary Clinton’s policy smarts, it’s Donald ...

To keep up with Democracy Lab in real time, follow us on Twitter and Facebook.

Eszter Zalan presents an in-depth look at Hungary’s populist prime minister Viktor Orban — where he came from, what he wants, and what he’s up to next.

Christian Caryl warns that, for all of Hillary Clinton’s policy smarts, it’s Donald Trump who’s got his finger on the pulse of worldwide discontent.

Pikria Saliashvili explains why voters in Georgia are feeling apathetic about their upcoming elections, and why that might not be so bad.

Benjamin Cohen reports from Kiev on how the Israeli president’s denunciation of Ukrainian nationalist groups for their crimes during the Holocaust is stoking controversy.

Javier Corrales explains why Colombia’s government conceded so much to the FARC in the peace agreement signed last week. (The perceived leniency of the deal may be why Colombian voters have just narrowly rejected it in a referendum, throwing the country into uncertainty.)

And now for this week’s recommended reads:

For Foreign Affairs, Andrea Kendall-Taylor, Erica Frantz, and Joseph Wright warn that personal dictatorial rule is on the rise around the world.

South Africa’s Sunday Times reports that, according to the Mo Ibrahim Foundation’s just-released Index of African Governance, safety and rule of law is on the decline in most African countries.

The Economist dives into the pluses and minuses of free trade.

The Wall Street Journal describes Aung San Suu Kyi’s support for the United States’ decision to lift sanctions on Burma as a risky move.

Voice of America’s Ralph Jennings explains that the Philippines’ new president (who recently made headlines for comparing himself to Hitler) may be expecting a windfall of foreign aid as he reorients his country away from the U.S. and towards China and Russia.

For the Atlantic Council’s “New Atlanticist” blog, Melinda Haring takes a look at what Ukrainian pilot Nadiya Savchenko has been up to since her release by the Russians. Also in the “New Atlanticist,” Kateryna Smagliy reflects on the lessons of Babi Yar on its 75th anniversary.

For Quartz, Max de Haldevang tells the story of how a British reporter uncovered voting fraud in Russian village.

RFE/RL’s Ron Synovitz reports on Bosnian vote-selling, which is so blatant that you can do it online.

For the Moscow Times, Ola Cichowlas reports on the lives of the British nannies who have flocked to Moscow to look after the children of Russia’s elite.

In the photo, voters wearing traditional costumes walk towards a polling station in Mezokoevesd, eastern Hungary, on October 2.

Photo credit: FERENC ISZA/AFP/Getty Images