http://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-3832110/Mimi-Elashiry-sizzles-skimpy-swimwear-flaunts-toned-derri-playful-photoshoot.html
874
8
She's the in-demand Australian blogger who has recently teamed up with Havaianas and Ken Done to release a line of flip-flops.

But that isn't the only project 20-year-old Mimi Elashiry is working on, with the brunette beauty swapping blogging for modelling on Tuesday in Sydney.

Spotted on Bondi Beach, the stunner posing up a storm in a range of swimwear for ASOS's latest campaign.

Scroll down for video

Work it! Blogger Mimi Elashiry was spotted posing up a storm on Tuesday while shooting a new ASOS swimwear campaign in Sydney

On the sunny spring day, Mimi firstly posed provocatively on a park bench in a colour swimsuit.

The brightly-coloured one-piece was covered in a floral print with thin straps over the shoulders and a low-cut back.

They featured extremely high-cut bottoms - exposing her toned derrière as well as showing off her long, lean legs.

Bottoms up: The in-demand Australian model showed off her toned derrière during the shoot

Legs 11: Mimi's enviable pins were on display in the high-cut one-piece and also showing off some of her tan lines

Strutting her stuff! The beautiful brunette donned a brightly coloured floral swimsuit in one look during the photoshoot

In one sequence of shots, Mimi wore on-trend faux fur lined slippers as well as several silver and gold bangles and rings, as well as gold hoop earrings and an anklet.

Her sun-kissed brunette locks were worn out, with two plaits tied at the back to keep her tresses off her face.

While the model is extremely tanned, hints of bikini lines were evident around her hips in the high-cut swimwear.

You want me to walk THIS way? The stunning brunette looked like she was enjoying herself on-set during the sunny spring day

Fun in the sun: In one sequence of shots, Mimi wore on-trend faux fur lined slippers as well as several silver and gold bangles and rings, as well as gold hoop earrings and an anklet

What's that? During the shoot, Mimi struck a number of poses around the streets of Bondi

She donned a natural look for the shoot, with 'barely there' make-up.

The stunning model - who is half Australian, half Brazilian - looked like she was enjoying the shoot.

She was spotted happily laughing with others on-set as she walked to the park benches for more shots.

Flat as a tack: The half-Australian, half-Brazilian stunner flaunted her washboard abs

Costume change! Mimi donned a two-piece black bikini for her second outfit

Even when the camera's weren't clicking the 20-year-old was animated as ever, point at things as she crossed the road.

Mimi also had a costume change during the photoshoot, slipping into a sporty black two-piece.

The statement swimming costume had multi-coloured tassels hanging from both the top and bottom of the bikini.

Sun safe: For a few snaps, Mimi donned a khaki camouflage coloured fisherman's cap

Busting out: Mimi's costume had such itsy bitsy bikini bottoms that most of her perky posterior was exposed

Once again, the costume was extremely revealing on the bottom, with the pants barely covering Mimi's perky posterior.

Rouching detail down the middle of the underwear further accentuated her curves.

This time, Mimi's enviable stomach was on display - the black bikini showing off her washboard abs.

Bright bits: Mimi's chic black bikini was covered with fluro coloured tassels

She was wearing her brunette tresses in the same style as before, with the golden tresses falling past her shoulders, along with the same jewellery.

However, she accesorised the bikini with mustard-coloured sneakers and also donned a khaki camouflage coloured fisherman's hat in some shots.

The in-demand model posed by the side of a building, and against a pole.

Fix up, look sharp: The coveted model has graced many campaigns of late, including Havaianas latest flip flops

I n 2013 Mimi was offered a place to be a full time ballet dancer at Joffrey Ballet School in New York, but she turned it down to finish her schooling.

But not long after, in a bit of fun, she jumped off a gully in Bryon Bay on the NSW north coast, injuring her back.

From there, she turned to modelling full-time.