http://www.express.co.uk/news/politics/709493/Amber-Rudd-EU-Brexit-Brussels-visa-threat-politics
13
1
The Tory Cabinet minister responded to reports Brussels officials are plotting a costly application system for UK citizens with a warning of tit-for-tat retaliation measures. She also insisted the Government will regain "complete control" over the country's borders after leaving the EU and hinted that a work permit system was being considered for EU migrants. Mrs Rudd's forthright warning to Brussels came in her first in-depth television interview since taking charge at the Home Office this summer. EU bureaucrats are said to be looking at making UK citizens apply for short-term visitors' visas before being allowed to enter EU member nations.

ANDREW MARR SHOW/BBC Amber Rudd insisted the Government will regain

The process could involve an on-line application and a fee similar to the system for getting a visa to visit the US. Ms Rudd told the BBC1 Andrew Marr Show: "My reaction to that is it’s a reminder that this is a two-way negotiation. "The EU and the commissioners may be considering issues - they will be considering their negotiation with us, just as we are considering it with them. "But I’m going to make sure that what we do get is in the best interest of the UK."

ANDREW MARR SHOW/BBC Mrs Rudd accepted Britons would be "surprised" about being forced to apply for a visa

Once we leave the European Union we will have complete control over who comes into the UK from the EU and who doesn’t - with one or two provisos, of course Amber Rudd

She accepted Britons would be "surprised" about being forced to apply for a visa to travel to mainland Europe. She added: “I don’t think it’s particularly desirable, but we don’t rule it out because we have to be allowed a free hand to get the best negotiation.” The Home Secretary then said: "Once we leave the European Union we will have complete control over who comes into the UK from the EU and who doesn’t - with one or two provisos, of course."

The Government was seeking the "right balance" in immigration policy to ensure what was best for the country and the economy, she said. She was "completely committed" to bringing annual net migration down from more than 300,000 to the "tens of thousands" but conceded: "It will take some time." Ms Rudd appeared to confirm that the Government was considering a work-permit scheme for EU migrants after rejecting the idea of an Australian-style points system. She said: ”I think that work permits certainly have value, but as I say, we’re not ruling anything out at the moment.” There were fresh signs of a rift within the Cabinet over immigration yesterday as Boris Johnson appeared to reject the idea that EU citizens may be entitled to preferential access to Britain after Brexit.

GETTY Boris Johnson said that a government would no longer be incapable of controlling immigration

Speaking in a video for the new pressure group Change Britain set up by former Leave campaigners, the Foreign Secretary said: "No longer will a skilled person from outside the EU be denied the same opportunities as someone from inside the EU. "No longer will a British government be incapable of controlling immigration." His remarks appeared to suggest skilled migrants from anywhere in the world would be treated equally when applying to come to Britain.

Prime Minister Theresa May Mon, October 31, 2016 Prime Minister Theresa May has promised to 'build a greater Britain'. Here is her political career in pictures. Play slideshow AFP/Getty Images 1 of 92 British Prime Minister Theresa May (L) makes a donation to the Royal British Legion's Poppy Appeal with WW2 veteran Roy Miller (R), 92 in Downing Street, central London on October 31, 2016.

That idea is at odds with Ms Rudd and Prime Minister Theresa May, who have both declined to rule out the possibility of preferential treatment for EU citizens in a future deal with Brussels. Iin another sign of Tory divisions over Brexit, former Cabinet minister John Whittingdale urged the Government to accelerate the process of leaving the EU.

GETTY John Whittingdale has urged the Government to accelerate the process of leaving the EU