http://www.iol.co.za:80/news/south-africa/western-cape/w-cape-mec-hosts-24-girls-for-day-of-the-girl-child-2078717
80
8
Sihle Ngobese, DSD spokesman, said that the girls who joined a motivational talk session and lunch were from disadvantaged communities all over Cape Town.

Cape Town - In commemoration of the United Nations International Day of the Girl Child, the Western Cape Department of Social Development (DSD) on Tuesday hosted 24 girls, aged between 14 and 18, at the Grandwest Casino in Goodwood, Cape Town.

Ngobese added that the provincial MEC for Social Development, Albert Fritz, had placed great emphasis on boosting initiatives and services to girls and women.

“Last year MEC Fritz began a sanitary pad campaign in conjunction with the Caring4Girls initiative. Over 1 000 sanitary towels were donated to students at the University of the Western Cape (UWC) and to schools in Delft,” Ngobese said.

“However, to find more sustainable solutions, the Ministry is in the early stages of planning a multi-stakeholder symposium featuring all government, private sector and NGO partners.”

“The symposium would look into broader issues of sexual and reproductive health for girls, including the possibility of formulating a Provincial Strategy on the roll-out of free sanitary pads to the poor in the Western Cape,” he said.

According to the statement, the MEC had also launched the Social Makeover Project, a partnership with Old Mutual and the Imbalie Group which targeted 20 young women from Mitchells Plain who were not in employment, education or training, and seeking to transform their lives and futures.

“These 20 women have completed an intensive 10-week personal development and empowerment programme and a highly acclaimed course in nail therapy run by Imbalie Training Academy.

“Girls and young women from all over the province have access to our growing network of six Youth Cafés. Youth Cafés provide a safe space with high-speed internet, computers and meals for youth to start their own businesses, seek job opportunities and training,” added Ngobese.

African News agency

IOL News on Facebook

IOL on Twitter