https://www.yahoo.com/news/lumi%C3%A8re-festival-mosfilm-karen-shakhnazarov-talks-economic-challenges-184130918.html
841
8
One of the world’s oldest and largest film production companies, Russian studio Mosfilm, set up in 1923, was the powerhouse of film production during the Soviet Union era, producing more than 3,000 films. It continues to be a major film producer, with over 1,200 employees. Leveraging the company’s extensive film library, Mosfilm has been a pioneer in the field of restoration of classic films, restoring around 7-8 titles per year, using intensive frame-by-frame restoration.

In 2010, the company launched a partner channel with Youtube featuring a large number of Soviet-era films, many of which were unknown in the West, including a substantial number with English-language subtitles.

Titles available on the Youtube channel include well-known films by Andrei Tarkovsky and Sergei Eisenstein and lesser-known titles such as “Zerograd,” (Gorod City), directed by Karen Shakhnazarov, who has served as Mosfilm’s General Director and Chairman since 1998.

In last year’s Lumiere Film Festival in Lyon, Mosfilm unveiled the restored versions of Sergey Eisenstein’s “Alexander Nevsky” and “Ivan the Terrible.” At this year’s fest it will be screening Shakhnazarov’s “Zerograd” (pictured).

Shakhnazarov spoke exclusively to Variety about Mosfilm’s current film restoration plans.

What are the main objectives associated to your film restoration strategy?

To begin with, restoration of heritage films for us is primarily a cultural policy rather than a commercial project. Mosfilm invests considerable amounts in film restoration and we believe that it’s absolutely necessary to restore heritage films. We have begun with films that have great artistic value, such as the films by Eisenstein and Tarkovsky.

What are the main distribution channels you use for restored films?

Of course we’re always pleased to present these restored films in different film festivals. And of course on TV, when channels want them. We also upload our films onto the Internet, in particular via our partner channel with Youtube. Many of our restored films can be viewed free of charge on this channel. In general, we are always happy to collaborate with anyone willing to present our restored films.

Has the Mosfilm Youtube channel been a success?

We are very happy with our viewers on Youtube. We have recorded many millions of viewers and the statistics show that they are from all over world — Latin America, North America, Europe, Asia. At present the Mosfilm Youtube channel, has about 300 films, of which 50-60 have subtitles. Once we provide English language subtitles, the Youtube technology provides an automatic translation into other languages.

What are the most popular titles on your Youtube channel?

I don’t have a precise statistic immediately available to tell you, but the most popular are probably old Soviet comedies from the 1960s and 1970s, because of course many of the films on this channel are viewed in Russia and by Russian viewers living abroad, who enjoy these films.

Do you generate any revenues from restored films?

DVD and the theatrical market bring in some income. But nothing compared to the investment. We don’t just scan the source materials. We do frame by frame deep restoration, which is very expensive.

Does having films available for free on Youtube have a negative impact on DVD, Bluray, VOD sales?

It does have some effect. But on the other hand some people who have watched films on Youtube also go out and buy the films. Our Youtube partner channel also brings in some revenues because it is ad-supported. The revenues are not very large. But it does bring in some revenues.

Do you collaborate with other studios in restoration activities?

We are in contact and exchange ideas and experience with other countries involved in restoration, but in practice we do everything in house. We have acquired state of the art equipment. Our specialists are very well trained. Everything is done in house. We do however restore films for other companies – until now essentially with Russian companies. We have done some small restoration jobs for foreign companies, for example Italian firms, but this has been very marginal. In Russia we have provided restoration services to the Russian state film archive and to the Gorky Film Studio, which also has a large library