http://tribune.com.pk/story/1180019/two-protesters-killed-indian-held-kashmir-clashes/
813
8
A young man was killed when his head was hit with tear gas canist­er while anothe­r died of pellet injuri­es

SRINAGAR: Two protesters were killed and at least 100 injured Saturday when anti-India demonstrators clashed with government forces in Indian-held Kashmir as the region remained locked down for the 64th straight day, officials said.

One young man was killed in southern Shopian district when his head was hit with a tear gas canister fired by police, a medical officer in the local hospital said.

Another protester died of pellet injuries as government forces fired pump action shotguns to break up a public rally against Indian rule attended by thousands in Botengoo village in southern Kashmir valley, a police officer said, speaking on condition of anonymity as he was not authorised to speak to media.

India to use chilli-filled shells in Kashmir

The protests and clashes broke out in at least half a dozen places across the southern and central parts of the Himalayan valley.

“We have reports of more than 100 injured in today’s protests. Around 25 of them have bullet wounds,” the police officer said.

Thousands of people in Indian-occupied Kashmir have been protesting against Indian rule almost daily since the killing of a popular rebel leader in a gun battle with soldiers on July 8, staging “freedom rallies” across large parts of the disputed territory.

With Saturday’s killings the death toll in the unrest, which has entered its third month, climbed to 78.

India is financing terrorism in Pakistan: Foreign Office

The government has been coming under growing pressure over the use of pellet guns and the level of casualties in Kashmir during the anti-India protests.

The metal pellets or birdshot fired from the pump-action shotguns rarely result in deaths, but can often blind victims if the fragments hit them in the eye.

Authorities lifted a curfew in most parts of the territory late last month, but schools, shops and many banks remain closed while residents struggle with a communications blackout.

Several rebel groups have for decades fought Indian soldiers — currently numbering around 500,000 — deployed in the territory, demanding independence for the region or its merger with Pakistan.

Tens of thousands of people, mostly civilians, have died in the fighting.

Read more: kashmir

Read full story