http://nation.com.pk/lahore/18-Oct-2016/students-strike-again
90
9
LAHORE - Students, furious over bad and poor marking system of the Lahore education board, blocked many roads yesterday and demanded rechecking of the Intermediate Part-1 papers.



They also staged a protest outside Lahore Press Club that brought the traffic to a halt.

Heavy traffic jams were witnessed on various roads of Lahore adjacent to the LPC.



The Intermediate students claimed that their papers had been marked wrongly by the Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education (BISE), Lahore.



It is second such protest of the students since the results were announced last week.

It came a day before an inquiry team constituted by Chief Minister Shahbaz Sharif is going to start probe into the alleged faulty marking in the examinations from today.



The BISE has reportedly received 13,000 applications so far from students seeking rechecking of their papers/answer sheets in the wake of ongoing protests.



The inquiry team, headed by the additional chief secretary and comprising the Chief Minister Inspection Team’s chairman and a member of the Punjab Information Technology Board (PITB), will visit the BISE’s head office to see how the exam and marking system worked.



Meanwhile, a spokesman for the BISE said yesterday the board officials had started examining the answer sheets formally.



The candidates who have applied for rechecking would be informed through SMS so that they could see their answer sheets and marks, according to the spokesperson.



The spokesman further said the BISE had also completed arrangements to conduct supplementary intermediate examinations from Oct 22.



Also, through a constitutional petition, the Lahore High Court has been urged to appoint a judicial commission to probe the preparation of incorrect results of the Intermediate examination for the current academic year.



The petition was filed by an Intermediate student, Palosha Khan, through Mushtaq Ch advocate impleading the Lahore Board, Secretary Education, and the Punjab government as party.

The petitioner contended that future of thousands of students is at stake due to inefficiency of the Board as huge discrepancies and errors have been found out in examining the attempted papers.



Without any fault of the students, the petitoner said, they were being asked by their respective college administration to pay Rs700 each for getting their attempted papers rechecked.



The court was informed that it was third time that BISE was repeating the same mistake to a great embarrassment and problem of the students.

“As such the situation demands a thorough inquiry through a judicial commission be held to find out the actual reasons for this repeated mistake which is also stoked fury among the students,” Khan maintained in her petiton.

