http://www.news.com.au/national/nsw-act/davidson-deaths-family-gassed-in-suspected-murder-suicide/news-story/4a967a3fc72ad74ef34dba2fad354bde
90
9
Video

Image Memorial service for Davidson family 5:41 St Lucy's school hold a memorial service for Davidson family

MARK MORRI and JACK HOUGHTON The Daily Telegraph

HIS neighbours knew Fernando Manrique as the loving father who chatted as his two children played with local kids at the park.

He was a high-flying technology executive whose work took him around the world.

But behind the friendly face and the suit-and-tie was a man who turned the family home he built 11 years ago into a gas chamber.

Police were yesterday dismantling the sinister network of hidden pipes used by Mr Manrique to gas his family.

Neighbours who saw him on the roof of the Davidson home with power tools over the weekend had no idea he was rigging up what has been described as an elaborate system to pump gas into the rooms.

Detectives are investigating the source of the poison found in gas canisters as family members in their home city of Bogota, Colombia, revealed the couple, whose son and daughter were both autistic, was on the verge of divorce.

The fiercely protective mother, Maria Claudia Lutz, 43, was found dead in one room with their daughter Elissa, 11, while their son Martin, 10, was found in another room alone.

Engineer and technology expert Mr Manrique, 44, was found on his own in another room. The family’s German Shepherd dog was also dead.

Neighbour Ofik Thomassian, 72, who lives directly across the street, watched Mr Manrique working on the roof on Saturday.

“He was right up on the roof replacing tiles and using power tools of sorts,” Ms Thomassian said.

“He was cutting and banging and making all sorts of noise and pulling up tiles but I don’t really know what he was doing.”

The bodies were discovered on Monday morning when staff at St Lucy’s Catholic School altered police after the children did not attend class and Ms Lutz did not arrive to run the canteen.

Ms Lutz was last seen on Friday after picking the children before having a coffee with other mothers.

BOC gas employees yesterday inspected the property which was rigged throughout the roof to deliver the deadly fumes in what a police source described as an “extensive, elaborate and well planned” operation.

Police are leaning towards the fact that the Drake Business Logistics company executive acted alone but have not been able to rule out the possibility of a murder-suicide pact with his wife.

“We may never know whether she knew what was happening, we just don’t know,” a source said.

Police are also investigating “domestic tension” between the couple as relative’s tributes on Facebook pointedly made no mention of Mr Manrique.

A source close to Ms Lutz, who wished to remain anonymous, has told The City Paper in Bogota that the relationship between the couple was “at times very tense due to the stress of bringing-up the children.”

The source said Mr Manrique had “become very distant” and that his wife felt “very alone” but they could not confirm that she was filing for divorce and custody of the children.

Computers were seized from the house to see if Mr Manrique had been researching the gassing and for any hint Ms Lutz knew about it.

Ms Thomassian said he was friendly and she was very protective of the children.

“She would lead them one at a time into the car, lock the door, and return to the house for the next child,” Ms Thomassian said.

“She looked after them but I have to say she never looked happy.

“She always had a very serious look on her face. Thinking back now, she looked like she was in pain. She probably had been for a very long time.”

Police have appealed for public help.

“Police are looking at the possibility the family members died from the introduction of an airborne gas,” a spokesman said yesterday.

“It is early days in the investigation and investigators will need to wait for toxicology results and results of the post-mortems to determine cause of death.”

Community mourns death of Sydney family 2:06 A shaken community will hold a prayer service after the death of two children and their parents in Sydney.