http://nation.com.pk/islamabad/06-Oct-2016/three-cops-suspended-for-power-misuse-corruption
90
9
Rawalpindi-City Police Officer (CPO) Israr Ahmed Khan Abbasi has suspended three police officials including a sub-inspector on charges of corruption, bad reputation and misuse of power, informed a police spokesman yesterday.



A departmental inquiry has also been ordered by the CPO against the three officials, he said.



According to him, CPO Israr Ahmed Khan Abbasi received a complaint against Sub-Inspector Mazhar Ikram, Head Constable Muhammad Raffique and Constable Shabbar that they had stopped a truck coming to Rawalpindi from Muzafarabad carrying dry fruits at a check post in area of Chowky Pagwari (controlled by Police Station Murree) for checking and later detained the driver and conductor in the lock-up illegally.

The SI, who was Chowky Incharge, later released the two men after taking Rs 12000 bribe and nuts and almonds, he said.

The victims appeared before CPO Israr Ahmed and lodged a complaint against the cops.

The CPO constituted a special team to probe the allegations.

The team thoroughly probed the allegations and submitted a report mentioning that the three cops were involved in corruption and misuse of authority.

In the light of report, the CPO placed the three police officials under suspension and ordered departmental inquiry against them.



Meanwhile, CPO Abbasi issued a show cause notice to SI Amjad Ali, who is posted at police station Pirwadhai, on account of implicating a citizen in fake robbery case.

The CPO also ordered change in the investigation in a case registered against the complainant Muhammad Siddique son of Muhammad Jan of Sangjani.

According to detail, Muhammad Siddique lodged a complaint with CPO that a person Bashir Ahmed along with unknown men tried to kidnap him from Sangjani on 7/8/2016.

A case of the incident was registered with PS Tarnool.

He said later the accused got registered a bogus robbery case against him with PS Pirwadhai while SI Amjad Ali held him and made fake recovery of Rs 21000 from him.

He said a court of law granted him bail while rejecting the investigation launched by the SI.

He sought legal action against SI, besides change in the investigation of case.

Taking action, CPO changed the investigation in the robbery case and issued show cause notice to SI Amjad Ali.

