http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/police-dig-up-derelict-pub-8991329
90
9
Police are digging up the old Bank of England pub

Police are digging up a disused pub in the search for a man who has been missing for 17 years.

Martin Joyce, a father of one, vanished after dropping his sister and brother off at a relative’s house in 1999.

He has not been seen since and police now believe he was murdered .

Mr Joyce, who was 29 at the time he disappeared in Manchester, would now be 45.

His family never gave up hope of him being found alive and two years ago made a new public appeal for information.

MEN Martin Joyce was 29 when he disappeared

At the time of his disappearance he had been struggling to deal with the death of both his father, also called Martin, and his brother Douglas.

He had also spent time in hospital after attempting suicide in 1998 and had served time in prison for traffic offences.

It was believed he may have gone to Ireland, where it is understood he had family links, or Scotland.

But police have now received new information about the mystery.

MEN Martin was seen at the pub two days before he vanished

Chief Inspector Mark Kenny from Greater Manchester Police said yesterday (Thursday): “We have launched a murder inquiry into the disappearance of Martin Joyce who would now by 45 years of age.

“I’ve got a team of officers conducting an investigation including support services working at the former Bank of England pub in Ancoats.

“We are following up a number of lines of inquiry. The Bank of England is just one of these but there are a number of others.

MEN The former Bank of England pub is in Ancoats

“Over the years there have been detailed and comprehensive reviews of this missing person. Information drops in all the time and we are duty bound to assess and simulate that information.

“At some point the information picture has changed in a way that has led us to change the status of the investigation.”

Two days before he vanished, Mr Joyce was seen at The Bank of England Pub on Pollard Street in the inner-city district of Ancoats, Manchester.

Senior investigating officer Bob Tonge, of GMP's Major Incident Support Unit, said yesterday (Thursday): "As part of the investigation, we are following a number of lines of inquiry, but sadly we are led to believe that Martin may not be alive and we have now launched a murder investigation.

"We have a team of highly skilled officers dedicated to the investigation and are working closely with the National Crime Agency to solve this case.

"Martin's family are being supported by specialist officers through this extremely challenging time and are desperate for answers into his disappearance.

"We believe there may be some people in Manchester who have information about Martin's disappearance and I'm urging anyone with information about what may have happened to him to contact police as soon as possible."