http://www.whio.com/news/eldora-speedway-ids-driver-killed-crash/59OYOvWUnBHXsDyW57qMXL/
10
1
Updated: Monday, September 12, 2016 @ 4:31 PM

By: Breaking News Staff

UPDATE @ 3:45 p.m. Sept. 12

Friends and family of 35-year-old Shane Arden Unger, who died following a crash at the Eldora Speedway Saturday night, will be gathering for the funeral service and visitation this week.

Unger’s family will receive friends from 4 to 8 p.m. Wednesday at the Zechar Bailey Funeral Home in Greenville. The funeral service will start at 10:30 a.m. Thursday at the funeral home, followed by the interment at St. Peters Cemetery in Webster, Ohio.

The family asks that visitors dress casually and race fans should wear their favorite race shirt.

Memorial contributions can be made to a fund for Shane Unger’s children, Lexi and Owen. Condolences can be sent through the funeral home’s website.

UPDATE @ 11:50 p.m. (Sept. 10)

Eldora Speedway confirmed on its social media account that Dirt Late Model racer Shane Unger died following a crash Saturday night at the speedway.

Unger, 35, was injured in a crash and was taken to Mercer County Community Hospital in Coldwater, where he died, according to a statement from the speedway.

“During a late restart in the second heat race at the World 100, Unger was involved in a multi-car crash in Turn 3 of the half-mile oval. Emergency crews quickly attended to Unger and placed him in an ambulance to transport him to the hospital.

“The Unger family has conveyed their appreciation of the prayers and support expressed by the racing community and requests their privacy be respected at this time,” according to the statement.

The speedway also posted to its Twitter account: With a heavy heart & grate sadness we share the news that Shane Unger has passed away” https://twitter.com/EldoraSpeedway/status/774812480212176896

FIRST REPORT

The Darke County Coroner’s Office was called tonight for a driver who was fatally injured in a crash at the Eldora Speedway.

No further information was immediately available and we are working to learn more.

Eldora Speedway is owned by Tony Stewart, a NASCAR driver and team owner.