http://leadership.ng/news/551415/turai-yaradua-loses-n91m-to-househelp
90
9
A house help, 65, has given the wife of late President Umar Yar’adua, Hajiya Turai, one of the greatest shocks of her life. The former first lady lost the materials and cash estimated at over N91.4 million to the suspect simply identified as Yusuf.

Turai, a source close to her confided in LEADERSHIP, still shudders any time she remembers her unalloyed trust in the househelp she employed about 40 years ago.

According to the account of the dependable source, the suspect was in custody of all the keys and valuables in the Katsina country home of Turai.

It was also gathered that the theft was discovered some weeks ago by the Yar’aduas, who lodged a formal complaint against the suspect to the police after all efforts to make him return the materials and cash failed.

The Commissioner of Police, Katsina State Police Command, Usman Abdullahi, who confirmed the theft to newsmen yesterday in Katsina, said Yusuf is helping the investigation into the loss of no fewer than 10 boxes filled with clothes and other valuables and the pilferage of the materials and cash in about 27 other boxes.

Meanwhile, no fewer than seven suspects from Niger Republic who made away with over N17 million from unsuspecting businessmen and women in Katsina State had been apprehended by the detectives in the State.

The suspects, Rabiu Mika’ilu, 35; Mika’ilu, 72; Jana’idu Lawal, 71; Mohammed Tukur, 60; Ismail Umar, 21; and Hassan Mohammed, 20, the Katsina State Commissioner of Police, Usman Abdullahi, also confirmed, were believed to be the brains behind the fate of many other victims who lost huge sums of money in recent various phony transactions in the state.

According to him, one of the suspected kingpins could change his voice up to six times to deceive their victims.

In another breathe, LEADERSHIP learnt that the tears of about 16 year old girl, name with held, had not ceased since last Friday when no fewer than five suspected social miscreants in Katsina metropolis undressed her in public glare shortly after mid-day and recorded her nude picture in their hand set for a possible transfer to social media platform.

Parading the suspected teenagers, the spokesman of the state police command assured that the alleged dare devils would soon be arraigned in court for indecent assault.