http://www.express.co.uk/news/politics/710434/State-of-the-Union-2016-European-Commission-Jean-Claude-Juncker-Brexit-existential-crisis
90
9
European Commission president Jean-Claude Juncker delivered his annual 'State of the Union' speech to MEPs at the European Parliament in Strasbourg, France. Despite expressing his "regret" at the historic Brexit vote, Mr Juncker insisted the EU is "not at risk". But he warned the next 12 months are a "crucial time time to deliver a better Europe". Insisting "Europe means peace", Mr Juncker said it was "no coincidence" European nations had not been at war since the first formation of a political union. But, amid rising euroscepticism across the EU, he warned "populism creates problems" before later highlighting the murder of a Polish national in Harlow, Essex last month. Mr Juncker told MEPs: "Europeans can never accept Polish workers being harassed, beaten up or even murdered on the streets of Essex." WHO IS JEAN-CLAUDE JUNCKER?

GETTY Juncker said Europe won't accept the death of Polish workers

The former Luxembourg prime minister remembered his speech from a year ago in which he had warned "the state of the EU leaves much to be desired". He insisted his warning "still applies" a year on. Mr Juncker said: "The scope in which we cooperate together is far too small." "Far too often national interests are brought to the fore. We shouldn't misunderstand this - European integration must not bow to the interests of the nation state. "Europe cannot become a colourless melting pot." But Mr Juncker insisted his unelected European Commission is not set on trying to "get rid of the nation states". He added: "We want to construct. We want a better Europe. "Europe is not going down the path of nationalisation, it can never become that type of national area, but there splits out there and often fragmentation exists where we need further effort from the union, and that is leaving room for galloping populism." His dismissed common accusations Brussels is intent on creating a "United States of Europe" but added: "Populism creates problems, and we have to be aware of that and protect ourselves against it."

Mr Jucker said European citizens needed to see the EU working better for them, adding: "The citizens of Europe cannot be fooled any longer." He went on: "We have to look them straight in the eyes. "People in Europe don't want this petty envy between the various institutions. "People expect of Europe that they see clear results, results which should be implemented over time." In a warning to eurosceptic national leaders, Mr Juncker ordered them to tone down their domestic criticism of Brussels. He said: "A committed Europe requires courage but we need to speak in committed terms about Europe in our national parliaments as well."

Media around the world reacts to Brexit Fri, June 24, 2016 Newspapers across Europe reacted with shock at EU referendum result Play slideshow EPA 1 of 14 The world reacts to Britain's EU Referendum result

Europeans can never accept Polish workers being harassed, beaten up or even murdered on the streets of Essex Jean-Claude Juncker