https://www.yahoo.com/news/latest-coast-guard-4-bodies-found-were-cuban-180156164.html
91
9
MIAMI (AP) — In a story Sept. 27 about the search for missing Cuban migrants, The Associated Press reported erroneously that the boat left Cuba on Sept. 21. It left on Sept 20 and capsized on Sept. 21.

A corrected version of the story is below:

The Latest: Coast Guard: 4 bodies found were Cuban migrants

The U.S. Coast Guard has confirmed that four bodies found in two locations were those of Cuban migrants whose makeshift vessel capsized off the Florida Keys

MIAMI (AP) — The Latest on the U.S. Coast Guard search for missing Cuban migrants off the Florida Keys (all times local):

1:30 p.m.

The U.S. Coast Guard has confirmed that four bodies found in two locations were those of Cuban migrants who had been on board a makeshift vessel that capsized off the Florida Keys last week.

In a news release, the agency said investigators are still trying to determine whether a fifth body found Saturday was part of the group that left Cuba on Sept. 20. Their vessel capsized the next day. The Coast Guard found three survivors on Monday who told them they had been on a boat with 23 people on board.

On Saturday, officials found three bodies about 20 miles off of Islamorada. A woman's body was found by Florida Fish and Wildlife officers near Big Munson Island on Monday.

Crews are still searching for survivors.

___

11:13 a.m.

The U.S. Coast Guard is searching for a group of Cuban migrants who were on board a makeshift vessel that capsized off the Florida Keys.

Coast Guard spokesman Eric Woodall says three survivors found Monday told authorities they left Cuba on Sept. 20 with 23 people aboard. The boat capsized the next day.

Woodall says they're still searching for survivors. He said three bodies were found Saturday 23 miles southeast of Islamorada after a report from a good Samaritan. Two other bodies were found in the Florida Keys. But Woodall says they aren't sure whether those bodies are connected to the capsized vessel.

A Coast Guard aircraft and a cutter are searching on Tuesday.