http://www.huffingtonpost.co.uk/entry/tandem-breastfeeding-photo-facebook-disabled_uk_57fcaa57e4b02213e954c544
90
9
A mother has claimed Facebook ‘disabled her account’ after she posted photos of herself tandem breastfeeding a stranger’s child and her own child. Rebecca Wanosik, from Missouri, US, shared the original post on Friday 7 October explaining how she came to feeding a friend of a friend’s child. “I received a random text from one of my friends asking if I could feed a stranger’s baby,” she wrote. “The baby’s mother was having surgery and the baby is exclusively breastfed and refused a bottle. “When the baby arrived you could tell she was hungry and exhausted and just needed some milk. I took an amazing photo tandem nursing these two babies together and it shows that hungry babies don’t care, they just need to be fed.”

The post was shared more than 82,000 times. However, Wanosik claimed Facebook disabled her account after the post had been widely shared. She didn’t state how long her account was “disabled” for. On the evening of Monday 10 October, she wrote: “GUESS WHO’S BACCCCCK! Now shut up and let me feed the babies!”

Wanosik then tried to clear up the controversy. “If you don’t like it, don’t look,” she wrote. “If you’re incapable of seeing this at face value for what it is, don’t look. “And to clear up any misconceptions here are some FPC (Frequently Publicised Concerns). “I had permission from the other child’s mother to post the photos. The other mother and I have a mutual friend who knew enough about me to know I could safely feed her baby. “I did what any compassionate woman should have done. Period. “No I didn’t fake my account being disabled, I have six children. Ain’t nobody got time for that.”

A Facebook spokesperson told The Huffington Post UK: “Breastfeeding photos are allowed on Facebook. We agree that breastfeeding is natural and we know that it’s important for mothers to share their experiences with others on Facebook. This account was disabled in error but has now been restored. “Our team processes millions of reports each week, and we occasionally do make a mistake, as has happened here. We apologise for this and for any inconvenience caused.”

Also on HuffPost Breastfeeding Tandem Photography Breastfeeding Tandem Photography

1 of 18 Share this slide:

Image by Mae Burke