http://www.politico.com/tipsheets/morning-defense/2016/09/trump-and-clinton-clash-on-iraq-terrorism-nato-216533
90
9
Trump and Clinton clash on Iraq, terrorism, NATO

With Zach Montellaro, Ellen Mitchell, Connor O’Brien and Bryan Bender

ABOUT LAST NIGHT — TRUMP AND CLINTON CLASH ON TERRORISM, IRAQ, NATO AND MORE: Fights over terrorism, the U.S. role in NATO and the war in Iraq highlighted the foreign policy sections of the first presidential debate between Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton, which nevertheless had a larger focus on domestic policy and the clash of personalities. The candidates sparred over well-trod ground on the national-security front — Trump’s initial support of the Iraq War and Clinton’s role in the Iran deal — along with a little detailed policy, such as Trump saying he would “certainly not do first strike” when asked about potential changes to the U.S. first-use nuclear weapons policy.

Story Continued Below

They spent plenty of time talking about Iraq, from Trump’s opposition to the war (more below) to who was responsible for the rise of the Islamic State. Trump blamed Clinton and the Obama administration for creating a vacuum when U.S. troops left Iraq in 2011, while Clinton responded that it was then-President George W. Bush, not President Barack Obama, who negotiated the agreement for U.S. troops to leave (which is true, though there are questions over how hard Obama tried to get a follow-on deal). And the Republican and Democratic rivals argued over who had the temperament to be commander in chief.

There was plenty to fact check. And here's a quick rundown of several questionable claims:

— TRUMP’S IRAQ WAR SUPPORT: “Donald supported the invasion of Iraq,” Clinton said. “Wrong,” Trump interjected. Still false: Trump was supportive of the Iraq invasion as far back as 2002, according to interviews Trump did with Howard Stern, which were first uncovered by BuzzFeed.

— TRUMP MISSPEAKS ON HILLARY AND ISIL: “No wonder you’ve been fighting ISIS your entire adult life,” Trump told the former secretary of state. Clinton turned 18 in 1965, and the Islamic State was formed out of Al-Qaeda in Iraq in 2013.

— TRUMP SAYS U.S. ALLIES DON’T PAY 'WHAT THEY SHOULD' FOR U.S. TROOP PRESENCE: While Trump is correct the U.S. does fund the stationing of troops throughout the world via the defense budget, key U.S. allies do share the budgetary load in exchange for the security benefits of hosting U.S. forces. Japan, for instance, allocated $1.7 billion this year “in direct support” for U.S. bases. And South Korea paid $866.6 million — about 40 percent — in 2014 to host the U.S. military, according to the Wall Street Journal.

— WHAT DIDN’T GET DEBATED: Veterans issues weren’t raised at all. Afghanistan was only mentioned once by Clinton, in the context of NATO invoking the Article V pledge of mutual aid if attacked. And Syria was only discussed once as part of Clinton’s ISIL plan — not the messy civil war that’s going to be a major foreign policy headache for the next president.

— READ MORE: All of POLITICO’s debate coverage and reaction is here, including Glenn Thrush’s five takeaways and the POLITICO Caucus verdict.

HAPPY TUESDAY AND WELCOME TO MORNING DEFENSE, where we recommend watching this video from last night as a debate hangover cure. Keep the tips, pitches and feedback coming at jherb@politico.com, and follow on Twitter @jeremyherb, @morningdefense and @politicopro.

HAPPENING TODAY — SENATE TO VOTE ON STOPGAP SPENDING BILL: The Senate has scheduled a procedural vote this afternoon to move forward on its stopgap funding measure, but the vote is expected to fall short of the required 60 votes, our colleague Ben Weyl reports. A government shutdown is still unlikely, Weyl writes, but Democrats are running a squeeze play on the continuing spending resolution in an effort to include federal aid to address the water crisis in Flint, Mich. One knowledgeable Morning D reader told us there’s already talk of a three-to-four day continuing resolution to keep the government open into next week.

ALSO TODAY — MODERN DAY MARINE KICKS OFF: The Modern Day Marine Expo gets underway this morning at Marine Corps Base Quantico in Virginia. Marine Commandant Gen. Robert Neller speaks at the three-day conference on Wednesday. Our colleague Ellen Mitchell will be at on the ground today, so follow her on Twitter here. A full schedule is here.

LATER THIS WEEK — SENATE TO VOTE ON 9/11 BILL OVERRIDE WEDNESDAY: Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell announced Monday that the vote to override President Barack Obama’s veto of the bill allowing 9/11 victims to sue the government of Saudi Arabia would occur on Wednesday. And the House is likely to vote on the override Thursday or Friday, a Republican leadership aide said. But ahead of the vote, the Saudis are launching a major lobbying campaign, our colleagues Isaac Arnsdorf and Seung Min Kim report:

“Saudi Arabia is mounting a last-ditch campaign to scuttle legislation allowing families of victims of the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks to sue the kingdom — and they're enlisting major American companies to make an economic case against the bill. General Electric, Dow Chemical, Boeing and Chevron are among the corporate titans that have weighed in against the Justice Against Sponsors of Terrorism Act, or JASTA. … The companies are acting quietly to avoid the perception of opposing victims of terrorism, but they're responding to Saudi arguments that their own corporate assets in the kingdom could be at risk if the law takes effect.”

THE MILITARY SOLUTION — SYRIA AND RUSSIA’S ALEPPO BOMBING CALLED WORT YET, via The New York Times: “Undeterred and infuriated by Western accusations of war crimes and barbarity in the aerial assault on Aleppo, the Syrian government and its ally Russia intensively bombed the city in northern Syria on Monday for the fourth consecutive day. Residents and rescuers there described the bombardment as among the worst yet in the five-year war. Both the Kremlin and the Syrian government appeared to harden their position that the United States and its partners had caused the disintegration of a fleeting cease-fire last week. The Russians went as far as suggesting that the Western portrayal of them as war criminals in the Syria conflict risked a further alienation in relations.”

— KERRY DEFENDS DIPLOMACY AMID BOMBINGS, writes Reuters: “Secretary of State John Kerry defended his efforts to negotiate with Moscow over the war in Syria on Monday, despite the collapse of a ceasefire that has led to a massive Russian-backed assault on the besieged rebel-held sector of Aleppo. … Moscow and Damascus launched their assault last week despite months of negotiations led by Kerry that resulted in a short-lived ceasefire this month.”

AT MINOT, CARTER PLEDGES PLAN FOR NEW HELICOPTERS TO PROTECT NUCLEAR MISSILE SITES: Defense Secretary Ash Carter on Monday reassured troops protecting the Air Force's land-based intercontinental ballistic missiles, saying in a speech the Pentagon was working on a plan to replace the helicopters that monitor missile sites. "You deter large-scale nuclear attack against the United States and our allies," Carter told troops and reporters at Minot Air Force Base in North Dakota.

— SUPPLEMENTAL LIKELY COMING IN NOVEMBER: Cater told reporters the supplemental for war operations is likely to be submitted to Congress after the Nov. 8 elections. “We have a range, we're going to refine it, they'll get a refined number when they return in November, hopefully to pass a budget for the federal government,” Carter said when asked about the total dollar amount.

— WHAT’S ON AIRMEN’S MINDS? THE F-35, as Carter got a question Monday about the recent grounding of some F-35s over an insulation issue. “I doubt it'll have a long-term effect,” he responded. “I think the fundamental design of the aircraft is sound. … I think this will all be worked through. I do keep my eye on it."

ARMY GENERAL RELIEVED OF COMMAND: The Army said Monday that Maj. Gen. Wayne Grigsby had been relieved of his command after announcing last week he was under investigation and had been suspended. Grigsby, who was commander of “Big Red One” 1st Infantry Division at Fort Riley in Kansas, was “relieved of command due to loss of confidence,” the Army said in a statement. “He continues to be the subject of an investigation, and we cannot comment further at this time.” The Army has not detailed the allegations against Grigsby.

DOCUMENT DRAWER I — NO PLANS TO RELINQUISH CUBA BASE, PENTAGON REPORT SAYS: In an attempt to squash persistent rumors it plans to relinquish the naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, the Pentagon compiled a report outlining the vital importance of what it calls "the only U.S. military main operating base in the Caribbean" and a "unique, strategic enabler." The report, which was required by Congress and obtained by POLITICO under the Freedom of Information Act, was sparked by unfounded Republican claims that in attempting to shut down the terrorist prison on the base the Obama administration wants to give the entire facility back to Cuba.

DOCUMENT DRAWER II — PENTAGON DECLASSIFIES SOME NUCLEAR WEAPONS DATA: The Pentagon has declassified a host of data related to nuclear weapons, including the size of the stockpile from 1962 to 2015 and the location of nuclear storage sites in the U.S. and its territories previously shielded from the public. In 2015, according to the data, the Pentagon had a total of 4,751 nuclear bombs, not including those retired or awaiting dismantlement.

INDUSTRY INTEL — LABOR DEPARTMENT SUES PALANTIR FOR DISCRIMINATION: The U.S. Labor Department filed an administrative lawsuit against Palantir Technologies, alleging the data analysis firm systematically discriminated against Asians, reports Reuters. Palantir responded that the suit was based on a "narrow and flawed statistical analysis" and vowed to "vigorously defend" itself. "We are disappointed that the Department of Labor chose to proceed with an administrative action and firmly deny the allegations," the Silicon Valley-based software company that is locked in a legal fight with the Army over the next-generation battlefield intelligence network said in a statement to POLITICO.

SPEED READ

— North Korea claims that its rocket engine tests are for potential space missions — but intelligence agencies believe it could be the first step in building a missile that can reach the U.S.: NYT

— The White House tells the Pentagon to stop talking about “competition” with China: Navy Times

— Three-quarters of British CEOs are considering relocating after Brexit: The Wall Street Journal

— The Justice Department accuses a Chinese company of trying to evade sanctions against North Korea: POLITICO

— The four JSTARS surveillance aircraft grounded last week are flying again: POLITICO Pro

— As many as a dozen Afghan soldiers are killed in their sleep in an “insider attack”: Reuters

— Doctors in Aleppo are nearly out of supplies and are forced to treat children without anesthetics: BuzzFeed News

— Kurdish rebels attack Turkish security forces in southeastern Turkey, killing 10: AP

— Britain opposes creating an EU army but stopped short of threatening to veto such a move: AP

— Former Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad will not likely return to politics: NYT

— NATO is looking to deploy three E-3 AWACs soon to the Middle East: Defense News

— Inside the dealmaking in the race to succeed Ban Ki-moon at the U.N.: The Guardian

— Locals are suing to prevent the military from building helipads in Japan: Stars and Stripes

— Smith & Wesson’s stock price takes a hit after it loses its bid to supply the Army with new pistols: CNN