http://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/home-news/russian-warships-military-to-sail-fleet-through-english-channel-aircraft-carrier-a7362931.html
90
9
Russia is expected to sail an aircraft carrier and several other military vessels through the English Channel in late October.

The Royal Navy is preparing to intercept and escort the fleet of up to eight warships as they pass close to Britain on their way to bomb rebel-held areas of Syria.

The choice of route has been described as “posturing” by a British naval source, and comes amid fraught relations between London and Moscow over ongoing Russian air strikes in Aleppo.

A maritime patrol aircraft deployed by Nato will also monitor the military fleet when they near the UK, which could be as early as next week.

A Royal Navy spokesperson told The Independent: “UK and Nato assets routinely monitor warships from other nations when they enter our area of interest and this will be no different.”

But a defence source speaking to The Times described the deployment of the Admiral Kuznetsov, Russia’s only aircraft carrier, as “significant”.

Navy admirals believe in this instance Vladimir Putin will use the voyage as an opportunity to demonstrate Russia’s military strength as the boats pass Britain, The Telegraph reported.

The carrier's aircraft is expected to launch flying drills off the British and French coasts, and the boats may stop north of Scotland to carry out practice exercises including bombing.

A former First Sea Lord on Friday told The Telegraph that Russian posturing risked inflaming tensions further.

Travelling via the English Channel is not typical for Russian boats headed for Syria. Instead, most come directly down the Bosphorus Strait, which connects the Black Sea and the Mediterranean Sea at the Turkish city of Istanbul.

But the Admiral Kuznetsov is believed to currently be moored in Severomorsk near Murmansk in the north-west of Russia, near Norway and Finland.

A naval source told The Telegraph: “It’s not catching us by surprise, we are working up what to do and we are all over it. The most likely thing is that they will go through the North Sea, down the Dover Strait and through the Channel.

“They might even stop off the North East coast to fly for a bit.”

In pictures: Russian air strikes in Syria







19 show all In pictures: Russian air strikes in Syria



































1/19 Syrian boys cry following Russian air strikes on the rebel-held Fardous neighbourhood of the northern embattled Syrian city of Aleppo Getty

2/19 Russian defense ministry spokesman Major General Igor Konashenkov speaks to the media in Moscow, Russia. Konashenkov strongly warned the United States against striking Syrian government forces and issued a thinly-veiled threat to use Russian air defense assets to protect them AP

3/19 Syrians wait to receive treatment at a hospital following Russian air strikes on the rebel-held Fardous neighbourhood of the northern embattled Syrian city of Alepp Getty

4/19 Russian Deputy Defense Minister Anatoly Antonov speaks at a briefing in the Defense Ministry in Moscow, Russia. Antonov said the Russian air strikes in Syria have killed about 35,000 militants, including about 2,700 residents of Russia AP

5/19 Jameel Mustafa Habboush, receives oxygen from civil defence volunteers, known as the white helmets, as they rescue him from under the rubble of a building following Russian air strikes on the rebel-held Fardous neighbourhood of the northern embattled Syrian city of Aleppo Getty

6/19 Civil defence members rest amidst rubble in a site hit by what activists said were airstrikes carried out by the Russian air force in the town of Douma, eastern Ghouta in Damascus, Syria Reuters

7/19 A girl carrying a baby inspects damage in a site hit by what activists said were airstrikes carried out by the Russian air force in the town of Douma, eastern Ghouta in Damascus, Syria Reuters

8/19 Civilians and civil defence members look for survivors at a site damaged after Russian air strikes on the Syrian rebel-held city of Idlib, Syria Reuters

9/19 Civilians and civil defence members carry an injured woman on a stretcher at a site damaged after Russian air strikes on the Syrian rebel-held city of Idlib, Syria Reuters

10/19 Volunteers from Syria Civil Defence, also known as the White Helmets, help civilians after Russia carried out its first airstrikes in Syria

11/19 The aftermath of Russian airstrike in Talbiseh, Syria

12/19 Smoke billows from buildings in Talbiseh, in Homs province, western Syria, after airstrikes by Russian warplanes AP

13/19 Russian Air Forces carry out an air strike in the ISIS controlled Al-Raqqah Governorate. Russia's KAB-500s bombs completely destroy the Liwa al-Haqq command unit

14/19 Caspian Flotilla of the Russian Navy firing Kalibr cruise missiles against remote Isis targets in Syria Â© TASS/ITAR-TASS Photo/Corbis

15/19 Russia claimed it hit eight Isis targets, including a "terrorist HQ and co-ordination centre" that was completely destroyed

16/19 A video grab taken from the footage made available on the Russian Defence Ministry's official website, purporting to show an airstrike in Syria

17/19 A release from the Russian defence ministry purportedly showing targets in Syria being hit

18/19 Russia launched air strikes in war-torn Syria, its first military engagement outside the former Soviet Union since the occupation of Afghanistan in 1979. Russian warplanes carried out strikes in three Syrian provinces along with regime aircraft as Putin seeks to steal US President Barack Obama's thunder by pushing a rival plan to defeat Isis militants in Syria

19/19 Caspian Flotilla of the Russian Navy firing Kalibr cruise missiles against remote Isis targets in Syria, a thousand kilometres away. The targets include ammunition factories, ammunition and fuel depots, command centres, and training camps Â© TASS/ITAR-TASS Photo/Corbis

But the source said it was also possible the Russian warships would split, with some going through the Irish Sea or down the West coast of Ireland, “to cause more trouble”.

The source said: “Even if it splits five ways and we can’t man mark them, it doesn’t matter, we have got this covered.”

Once in the Mediterranean, the Admiral Kuznetsov is expected to take up a position off the coast of Syria for four to five months. It could launch jets and helicopters to carry out more air strikes.