http://finance.yahoo.com/news/european-society-medical-oncology-esmo-080000695.html
90
9
SYDNEY, Oct. 11, 2016 /PRNewswire/ --

Sirtex Medical Limited (SRX.AX) announced today that the European Society of Medical Oncology (ESMO) has indicated the use of SIRT using yttrium-90 (Y-90) microspheres as an option in for the treatment of intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (iCCA), a form of primary liver cancer that starts in the bile duct, the branching network of thin tubes that deliver fat-digesting bile from the liver to the small intestine.1

(Logo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20150119/724485 )

The new ESMO guidelines on biliary cancers were published in September 2016 as a supplement to the Annals of Oncology.1 Their lead author, Professor Juan Valle, department of medical oncology, Christie NHS Foundation Trust, University of Manchester, UK, states that selective internal radiation therapy (SIRT), which is also known as radioembolisation, "may be considered in patients with inoperable iCCA, usually after first-line chemotherapy."

The ESMO inclusion of SIRT for the treatment of iCCA was based on ESMO's review of a pooled analysis of 12 studies totalling 298 patients that was published in the European Journal of Surgical Oncology in 2015, by Dr D. P. Al-Adra of the University of Edmonton, Canada and others.2These data showed a median overall survival of 15.5 months and treatment response rate of 28% in patients treated with SIRT.

In addition, the new ESMO guidelines on biliary cancers call special attention to a subset of studies in the pooled SIRT analysis, stating that "importantly, 7/73 (10%) patients in three selected studies were converted to resectable disease, highlighting the importance of reassessment of patients in the multidisciplinary team in the event of a good response to any treatment."

Dr David Cade, Chief Medical Officer of Sirtex Medical Limited, said that "We are delighted to see SIR-Spheres® Y-90 resin microspheres cited in the new ESMO guidelines as an important post-chemotherapy option for patients with locally advanced or metastatic iCCA, given no current standard of care exists beyond first-line treatment with cisplatin and gemcitabine chemotherapy in these patients. We believe that these are the first international clinical guidelines to indicate SIRT as a treatment option for patients with iCCA."

Most iCCA patients are diagnosed relatively late in the course of their disease, and therefore are not immediately eligible for potentially curative surgical resection. The fact that even a small proportion of these patients may become surgically resectable after chemotherapy suggests that SIRT may offer real hope for them.

Dr Cade added that, "The relatively favourable outcomes for iCCA patients treated using SIR-Spheres Y-90 resin microspheres after having already failed chemotherapy have encouraged Sirtex to conduct a randomised controlled study in the setting of first-line treatment for iCCA. The SIRT in Cholangiocarcinoma (SIRCCA) study is examining the role of SIR-Spheres Y-90 resin microspheres followed by the standard-of-care first-line chemotherapy for iCCA, compared to chemotherapy alone.

SIRCCA is being conducted in some 30 centres in Australia and several European countries, including Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Spain, The Netherlands and UK.

About Cholangiocarcinoma

Although relatively rare, cholangiocarcinoma is the second-most common form of primary liver cancer.3 The most common form of primary liver cancer, HCC or hepatocellular carcinoma, is the world's second-largest cause of cancer deaths.4

In the westernized countries of Europe, North America and Australasia, incidence rates are low, with estimates ranging from 0.3 to 3.5 cases per 100,000 people annually. However, incidence rates are much higher in parts of the world where parasitic liver fluke infections are common, which includes Thailand, China and Korea. Northeast Thailand has the highest rate of cholangiocarcinoma in the world, 90 cases per 100,000 people each year.1

Other than liver fluke infection, cholangiocarcinoma can be caused by chronic damage to the liver or bile duct, such as chronic inflammation (primary sclerosing cholangitis, or PSC), bile-filled choledochal cysts and bile duct stones.5

Surgical resection of the cancerous tissue can represent a definitive cure for cholangiocarcinoma that is diagnosed early. For those patients diagnosed with later-stage disease, chemotherapy with cisplatin and gemcitabine (a combination referred to as CIS-GEM) is the initial treatment of choice, with SIRT now regarded as the next line of therapy.

Read More