https://www.yahoo.com/news/drug-lords-sons-want-impartial-attack-probe-lawyer-234644559.html
90
9
Jose Refugio Rodriguez, lawyer of Joaquin Guzman, is seen leaving after appearing at the Attorney General's Office for Special Investigations on Organized Crime in Mexico City, on October 10, 2016 (AFP Photo/Pedro Pardo)

Mexico City (AFP) - Prosecutors questioned on Monday a lawyer for imprisoned drug lord Joaquin "El Chapo" Guzman after he relayed a message from his client's sons denying their involvement in the killing of troops.

Refugio Rodriguez was asked to appear at the attorney general's office after he told news outlets, including AFP, that Jesus Alfredo and Ivan Guzman rejected allegations they were behind the September 30 ambush that killed five soldiers.

After emerging from an hours-long meeting at the anti-organized crime unit, Refugio Rodriguez said he repeated to the authorities that the brothers denied a role in the "terrible" attack in Culiacan, capital of the northern state of Sinaloa.

"I received a telephone call from one of their relatives who asked me that I tell the media that they had nothing to do with what happened," Refugio Rodriguez told reporters.

The sons say "they have nothing to do with this" and they request "an impartial and effective investigation," the lawyer said.

Dozens of gunmen attacked a military convoy with assault rifles and grenades on September 30 to free a suspect who had been wounded in a separate shootout hours earlier.

A military commander, General Alfonso Duarte, said Guzman's sons, who have been accused by the US Treasury Department of working for their father's Sinaloa drug cartel, were "very probably" behind the attack.

Duarte said Guzman's brother, Aureliano Guzman Loera, alias "El Guano," is battling for control of drug production against the Beltran Leyva drug cartel in the remote mountains of Sinaloa.

Joaquin Guzman, the head of the Sinaloa drug cartel, was recaptured in January, six months after his brazen escape from a maximum-security prison through a 1.5-kilometer (one-mile) tunnel. He faces a US extradition request.