http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/flood-rain-bihar-uttar-pradesh-madhya-pradesh-rajasthan-rescue-ndrf-ganga/1/745674.html
90
9
Highlights 1 Areas of Bihar, UP, MP and Rajasthan have been flooded due to heavy rains.

2 NDRF has 32 teams working across the four states.

3 The four states have got some respite since rains have halted for past 24 hrs.

No rains have been reported over the last 24 hours in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, brinigng some much needed respite to the four states which have been lashed with heavy rains.

NDRF has mobilised 32 teams across the four states.



MADHYA PRADESH

Close to 5000 people have been rescued by NDRF and the army in areas like Satna after heavy rainfall lashed Madhya Pradesh in the past 48 hours. The situation has improved in all rain washed areas except for Vidisha.

Seven teams of NDRF have been deployed in MP.

Incessant rains have badly affected normal life in Vindhya and Bundelkhand regions. Major rivers and streams including Son, Ken and Tamas are dangerous full and could over-flow at any moment. Rewa, Satna, Sidhi, Chattarpur, Panna, Katni, Damoh and some other districts are also facing a flood like situation.

The army is assisting in relief and rescue operations in rural areas of the Rewa district where several villages were inundated.

The road connectivity has been badly disturbed in several districts as major rivers and streams are overflowing.

UTTAR PRADESH

In UP, there was flood-like situation in Varanasi as the water level of Ganga rose the above the danger level.

In Prime minister's constituency of Varanasi, the river was flowing at 1.18cm above danger mark.

River Ganga in Ballia district of Uttar Pradesh was flowing at an unprecedented level. As per a government release, it was flowng at a level of 60.28 m which is 2.66 m above its danger Level of 57.615 m.

In Allahabad, several areas have been flooded as water enters residential areas of the region.

Several districts are reeling under flood as incessant rain has wreaked havoc, crippling normal life and obstructing road transportation.

On the other hand, the flood threat is also looming large in Mirzapur, Ghazipur, Ballia and other districts due to continuous rise of river Ganga which has swelled to dangerous levels but situation has improved over the past few hours due to a halt in the showers. 10 NDRF teams have been deployed in UP.

BIHAR

River Ganga wreaked havoc in Patna with water entering residential areas. NDRF flew in 5 teams comprising 45 trained personnel from chennai. They have 14 teams working across different districts of the state.

Due to the increase in the water level of the Ganga, the water has reportedly entered into the riverine areas of districts like Buxar, Bhojpur, Munger, Saran, Vaishali, Bhagalpur and Samastipur.

National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams, already pre-positioned in Patna, Vaishali and Gopalganj, have been put on alert while State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have been put on alert in Patna and Bhagalpur.

In Rajasthan one team has been deployed. As per high level sources, situation in the state is largely under control.

ALSO READ:

Flood threat looms large over Patna as Ganga continues to swell

Uttar Pradesh floods: 11 killed, Rihand dam gates opened to ease out pressure



