http://m.philstar.com/opinion/show/ab3dcf2a67a4d9410ea92bb46efcc39f?t=ng5n98f9l0q5pj406h12hqea42
90
9
Invitation to visit the Phl

COMMONSENSE By Marichu A. Villanueva

True to his challenge, President Rodrigo Duterte has formally invited Dr. Agnes Callamard who was recently appointed as the Special Rapporteur of the United Nations (UN) High Commissioner for Human Rights, to visit “soon” the Philippines. The presidential invitation was transmitted to the UN Special Rapporteur in a letter sent to her on Sept. 26 by Executive Secretary Salvador Medialdea.

In his letter to Callamard, Medialdea cited the Philippines has been in the international limelight, albeit in negative note, since the assumption of President Duterte on July 1 when the number of drug-related killings started to rise alarmingly. Medialdea, who is the so-called “little president,” noted though Duterte “critics and detractors” were only too quick to term “extrajudicial” these drug-related killings. But for more “accurate perspective” of the gravity of the illegal drugs problem, Medialdea asked the UN Special Rapporteur to come to the Philippines and see for herself the true situation on the ground.

“Maybe, it is appropriate for us to recall the President’s pronouncement in his inaugural speech that the sale, use and proliferation of illegal drugs shall be stopped by “all means that the law allows,” Medialdea pointed out, underscoring the presidential statement made on June 30 after his oath taking at Malacanang Palace.

Should Callamard accept the invitation, President Duterte told The Star, the UN Special Rapporteur must give him his day in court, so to speak, to rebut also the alleged 1,700 extra-judicial killings, or EJKs for short, that he supposedly admitted having killed while he was still the Mayor of Davao City. The President reiterated his willingness to testify himself before open and public hearing over the EJKs he purportedly carried out through the alleged Davao death squad (DDS).

“Since it is this administration that is maligned as being behind these extrajudicial killings, due process requires that the President of the Philippine Republic, be given the opportunity to propound his own questions which have been nagging him for sometime. The right to be heard is a great principle which every nation recognizes,” the Executive Secretary asked Callamard.

“Finally, it would be best to put everyone to whom questions are directed to swear under oath that the answers and/responses they give are the truth and nothing but the truth,” Medialdea added.

The alleged Dds is, in fact, being investigated at the Senate after Senators Leila de Lima and Antonio Trillanes IV, sought to include it in their ongoing legislative inquiry into the reported high incidence of drug-related EJKs since President Duterte assumed office. A self-confessed Dds member Edgar Matobato claimed he killed at least 50 people at the behest of the former Davao City Mayor and his son, Paolo who is currently the Vice Mayor.

“If indeed I have ordered the killing of 1,700, I will ask her (Callamard): ‘Who was the fifth one I killed? When did I kill him? How did I kill him?’ It’ so easy for them to repeat these accusations against me, but they don’t even have a single evidence to prove it” the President bristles.

Citing his long experience as city fiscal for more than 14 years, and as Mayor for 24 years, and one-term in Congress, the President pointed to the people of Davao City as knowing him very well he is not one who will countenance any violations of the laws of the land.

The Executive Secretary echoed the President’s desire to confront his accusers, including Callamard to testify herself before a public hearing after the investigations on these alleged EJKs are conducted and completed by the UN Special Rapporteur.

“I suppose that that would further fortify his (President) right to due process which requires that the party against whom a charge is levelled, is accorded the opportunity to, propound his own questions to whomever he deems appropriate, including your good self,” Medialdea told Callamard.

“After all, the party charged is entitled to know the motive for the investigation, and why the focus is on the Philippines when there are other nations responsible for the death of innocent and defenseless individuals elsewhere in the world. Those are extrajudicial killings too, are they not?” he rhetorically pointed out.

A copy of Medialdea’s two-paged letter to Callamard was belatedly furnished by the President to The Star when asked if he has formalized his repeated public pronouncements for the UN Special Rapporteur to investigate the reported EJKs in the country.

“We understand that you are mandated, among others, to examine the circumstances surrounding extrajudicial/summary/arbitrary executions and thereafter to submit your findings, conclusions and recommendations to the UN Human Rights Council and the General Assembly,” Medialdea stated in his letter to Callamard.

The “Invitation for a Country Visit” was sent to Callamard following her critical comments against President Duterte for allegedly abetting violations of the human rights of illegal drugs suspects. Responding to queries by international media, Callamard took the task the freshly installed Philippine President for the reported rising EJK incidents of suspected drug pushers and addicts.

Callamard’s criticisms came after no less than UN secretary-general Ban Ki-moon sternly called the attention of the administration of President Duterte to the latter’s “to kill” orders issued to Philippine law enforcement authorities against drug suspects in disregard of due process of laws.

A wave of critical comments by other international leaders from US President Barack Obama and the leadership of the European Union (EU) similarly expressed concerns on the escalating EJKs and other reported human rights issues involving the Philippine government under President Duterte.

Stung by these rebukes he is getting from his critics here and abroad, President Duterte publicly lambasted them all – including the UN chief and Callamard to Obama and the EU – in many of his extemporaneous remarks. The President called them as the “bleeding hearts” who were crying for the over 3,000 slain drug suspects as supposed victims of injustices and human rights in the Philippines but glossing over the millions of Filipinos whose lives have been destroyed by drug addiction.

On instructions of President Duterte, the Executive Secretary put down in writing his challenge to the UN Special Rapporteur to come and investigate these alleged EJKs instead of basing her comments that were merely culled from media reports. “We are confident that whatever reports, papers or data you may have been furnished with for your perusal and consideration by your immediate predecessor have not swayed you into prejudging the situation in the Philippines,” Medialdea told Callamard.

“It is in this context that we invite you to visit our country and see for yourself whether or not the criticisms are legally and factually sound,” Medialdea wrote to Callamard. “Thank you very much and we hope to see you soon,” he wrote.