http://www.politico.com/tipsheets/morning-tax/2016/07/grappling-with-the-eitc-215533
90
9
Grappling with the EITC

HOW DO YOU IMPROVE THE EITC? You’ve heard a fair bit that the Earned Income Tax Credit is one of the few areas of agreement between the two parties on tax policy. And you’ve probably also heard some of the GOP concerns about expanding that program further — an error rate that generally hovers around 25 percent.

Still, a new paper argues that the IRS remains the best option for administering the program, despite concerns that the agency is underfunded and overworked. Steve Holt of HoltSolutions, the paper’s author, said at an American Enterprise Institute event that the EITC could be in worse shape if it was administered by employers through paychecks, even though it might be better to deliver the credit in more than just one annual lump sum. Public benefits agencies, Affordable Care Act marketplaces and the Social Security Administration wouldn’t be good matches either, Holt argued, despite the elevated error rate.

Story Continued Below

Janet McCubbin of the Treasury Department, appearing at the AEI event, made the case that running a benefit like the EITC through the tax code came with tradeoffs — there’s a high participation rate and lower administrative costs, but that comes with a higher noncompliance rate. And AEI’s Alan Viard noted that many of the issues with errors come from complex rules or are made by preparers — though giving the IRS more power to regulate that group is another story entirely. Paper here: http://bit.ly/2aGNvEB

WELCOME TO TUESDAY. It’s Day Two of the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia, and the 241st birthday of the United States Postal Service — which you might know as a necessary actor in the online sales tax debate.

Let us know what’s happening. Email: bbecker@politico.com, teckert@politico.com, bfaler@politico.com, kodonnell@politico.com. Twitter: @berniebecker3, @tobyeckert, @brian_faler, @katyodonnell_ , @POLITICOPro and @Morning_Tax.

SEEMS SIMPLE ENOUGH: How big of a deal could it be to change where a company reports to whom it gives stock options, so investors have a better understanding of how companies are relying on that benefit? Actually a pretty big deal, says The New York Times’ Gretchen Morgenson: “Along with appearing to juice many companies’ net earnings, it is likely to bring the spotlight back to the issue of low corporate taxes in America, possibly reigniting that debate.”

The Financial Accounting Standards Board didn’t exactly highlight the new rule, which goes into effect in 2017, but corporate tax experts say it will make it clearer that lots of companies don’t pay the statutory 35 percent rate. One example, from Morgenson: Facebook, which grants a lot of stock options, will see its effective tax rate recorded at around 12 percent or 13 percent under the new rule — not the current 40 percent. More here, on a pretty complicated tale: http://nyti.ms/2aa6cSj

BACKLASH BEGINS: It took a little while, but prominent conservatives in the tax field are starting to question Sen. Ron Wyden’s decision to bring on Victor Fleischer as co-chief tax counsel for Finance Committee Democrats. Fleischer, a University of San Diego law professor, helped jump-start the movement to end the preferential tax treatment of carried interest, which has become something of a cause celebre among Democrats.

Grover Norquist of Americans for Tax Reform said he had no issue with Fleischer himself. But the author of the famous anti-tax pledge told Morning Tax that he believes the appointment underscores that Democrats will be using carried interest to try to take GOP eyes off of a bigger prize. Presumptive Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton “wants $100 billion a year in tax hikes. They want to fight over this and get us wrapped over the axle on this [carried interest] tax hike, but what they really want is 50 times bigger than this,” Norquist said. “This is an old trick. It’s a tactic where you act as if you’re talking about a little thing, when you’re really talking about a much bigger thing.” (To be clear: Norquist has publicly opposed proposals to scrap the current treatment of carried interest, and remains against raising any taxes on capital gains.)

Douglas Holtz-Eakin of the American Action Forum came at the issue from less of a strategic political angle. Holtz-Eakin said the chief tax counsel slot has generally been less of a political role, and he wonders whether Fleischer — who’s been writing op-eds for The New York Times — will follow that tradition. “I haven’t seen anything in the public debate [that] suggests that he’s acknowledged” conservative critiques of the Democratic carried interest position, Holtz-Eakin told Morning Tax. “And that bothers me. If he’s gone there to play politics, I’m not sure that’s a good thing.”

** A message from Tax Foundation’s 2016 Tax Prom: Tax Prom hosted by the Tax Foundation is the must-attend event for the Capitol Hill tax community. Join us Thursday, Nov. 17 in D.C. for cocktails, dinner, and to meet the who’s-who of tax. Honorees will be Sen. Ron Wyden; Rep. Kevin Brady; and former W&M staffer Janice Mays. http://TaxProm.com **

NEED A REFRESHER: The Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center is offering the equivalent of a one-page synopsis of Clinton’s proposed tax hikes — about $1.1 trillion over a decade, with the top 1 percent absorbing close to four-fifths of the increases. (The top 0.1 percent would actually contribute more than half of the new revenues.) The big three tax increases from Clinton are a surcharge on adjusted gross income over $5 million, a “Buffett Rule” measure to ensure that those making seven figures pay at least a 30 percent effective rate and a cap on the value of itemized deductions at 28 percent — an old Obama administration favorite. http://tpc.io/2as3B5E

QUESTIONS REMAIN FOR YAHOO: Verizon has bought the core of Yahoo — its news sites, Tumblr and Yahoo Mail — for almost $5 billion. But as The New York Times notes, Yahoo did not sell its 15 percent stake in the Chinese online giant Alibaba. And that’s where things could get a bit tricky for the company: “Yahoo would incur an enormous tax bill if it sold the stake outright — to the tune of billions of dollars — since its initial investment in the Chinese e-commerce titan has skyrocketed in value,” Michael de la Merced writes — noting that the IRS already stamped out Yahoo’s efforts to spin off its Alibaba stake tax-free.http://nyti.ms/2a6SuCN

ONE OF THESE THINGS, NOT LIKE THE OTHER: You’re not alone if you got whiplash going straight from the Republican convention to the Democrats’ gathering in Philadelphia. The NYT’s Neil Irwin, citing new research that delved into 136 years of congressional speeches, found that the two parties are actually speaking a different language — and uses taxes to help drive the point home. “Democrats refer to the ‘estate tax’ and ‘tax breaks’ while Republicans speak of the ‘death tax’ and ‘tax relief.’” http://nyti.ms/2a15XsK

BRAIN FART: We wrote incorrectly in Monday’s Morning Tax about what could happen if the U.S. pulls out of the World Trade Organization. It could cause 160 countries to levy tariffs on the U.S.

EVENT ALERT: POLITICO’s Clea Benson is joined by Rep. Mike Capuano (D-Mass.), Philadelphia’s Director of Planning and Development Anne Fadullon, Rep. Brad Sherman (D-Calif.), Mortgage Bankers Association CEO Dave Stevens and Penn Institute for Urban Research’s Susan Wachter for a debate over the housing policy choices facing the next Congress and administration at POLITICO’s “Under Construction: How Will the Next President Remodel Home Lending?” event — Tuesday, 2 p.m.; POLITICO Hub - 2001 Market Street, 2 Commerce Square, Philadelphia. Learn more: http://politi.co/2a88luG. Livestream: www.POLITICO.com/live

INTERNATIONAL UPDATE —

DEADLINE LOOMS IN BRASILIA: Brazil’s finance minister might just be laying the groundwork for tax hikes by the end of next month, Bloomberg reports. Henrique Meirelles told reporters that Brazil would raise taxes in the short-term only if “truly necessary” — and only temporarily — as it tries to battle out of the country’s worst recession in decades. With revenues down and a record budget deficit, Meirelles added that Brazil might have to rely longer term on tax hikes if the government can’t make more structural alterations, like a pension overhaul. http://bloom.bg/2acYQxU

GET TO GASTOWN, STAT: Canadian officials have definitely taken notice that the Vancouver housing market is on fire. Bloomberg reports that Ottawa is going to slap an additional 15 percent property transfer tax on sales to foreign families or corporations in the greater Vancouver area starting on Aug. 2, in an effort to keep housing prices from jumping too much. That area just saw more than $750 million of foreign money (or about $1 billion Canadian) pour into the housing market in just the past five weeks. http://bloom.bg/2a6EkS9

STATE NEWS —

THROWING ON THE BRAKES: Republican Gov. Charlie Baker’s push to require online lodging companies like Airbnb to pay hotel taxes in Massachusetts lasted about four days, The Associated Press reports. Baker said Monday that he hadn’t fully examined a state Senate measure when he sounded open to the idea late last week. He then called that bill far too broad, saying it would ensnare “a whole variety of rentals that I would never dream of having Massachusetts tax." Still, Baker says hotels have a case that they’re at a competitive disadvantage, though that leaves him kind of stuck: "I'm not interested in raising taxes. I am interested in leveling playing fields. At this point in time, on this particular issue, those two things seem to be in conflict." http://bit.ly/2aafVrY

QUICK LINK

— About 20 taxpayers declared some $30 million in hidden assets during the first week of an Indonesian amnesty program. http://reut.rs/2a0D4tO

DID YOU KNOW?

Ochopee, Fla., is home to the smallest post office in the nation — some say the world. The 8-by-10 foot post office, located in the Everglades, used to be an irrigation shed. http://bit.ly/2a5W4c5

** A message from Tax Foundation’s 2016 Tax Prom: Our annual dinner, aka “Tax Prom,” has become the must-attend event for the tax world: members of Congress, congressional staffers, tax agency officials, private sector advisors and analysts, and others involved in the tax reform debate. This year’s dinner on Thursday, November 17 at the Ritz-Carlton Washington, D.C., marks the Tax Foundation’s 79th Tax Prom. It’s a wonderful opportunity to see old friends, schmooze with cool people, and have a great time. We’ll also present Distinguished Service Awards to Senate Finance Committee ranking member Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon, House Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady of Texas, and former Ways and Means staffer Janice Mays. Black-tie. Sponsor a table or buy individual tickets today at http://TaxProm.com **