http://www.news.com.au/national/queensland/cops-probe-infatuation-link-in-frenchman-smail-ayads-frenzied-attack-on-brit-traveller-mia-ayliffechung/news-story/e14f766b19d82836dd69e148ec860239
90
9
Kate Kyriacou, Thomas ChamberlinChris McMahon The Courier-Mail

UPDATE: A 29-year-old man has been charged with multiple offences following a brutal rampage at Home Hill on Tuesday night.

French national Smail Ayad has been charged with one count of murder, two counts of attempted murder, one count of serious animal cruelty and 12 counts of serious assault.

He was remanded in custody following the death of 21-year-old British woman Mia Ayliffe Chung.

His other alleged victim, a 30-year-old British man, has been taken to Townsville Hospital with critical head injuries.

A 46-year-old local man also suffered non-life threatening injuries.

It has also been alleged that as the man was being transported from the hospital to the police watchhouse he assaulted two officers and “violently” resisted arrest. It is understood that police used taser and capsicum spray to subdue the man.

Detective Superintendent Ray Rohweder said he wanted to reaffirm that there “has been no indication whatsoever” that any radicalisation existed in relation to the attack at the hostel.

He said Ayad declined to be interviewed by police.

He said he would appear via video link tomorrow morning in Townsville Magistrates Court.

“There are a number of concerns in relation to both officer and public safety, so in consultation with the defendant’s legal advisors we’ve agreed that’d video link would be the best possible way to take the matter forward,” he said.

“In relation to his behavior over the last couple of days, it is certainly important that we keep that in mind and ensure everyone is safe.”

Supt Rohweder said he remained at the Townsville watch house and his “demeanor remains unchanged”.

Supt Rohweder said police would test the accused murderer for a “broad stream of drugs”.

EARLIER: THE accused killer who allegedly stabbed a British backpacker to death in Home Hill in Queensland’s north became violent on the way to hospital, with police officers injured.

Superintendent Ray Rohweder today alleged that Smail Ayad attacked police officers while being transferred from Townsville Hospital to the Townsville police station.

He said Ayad began acting in an “extremely violent matter”.

Several officers sustained cuts and abrasions and one a bite to the leg.

Supt Rohweder was briefing media as it emerged families of slain backpacker Mia Ayliffe-Chung and injured man Tom Jackson will travel to Australia as police prepare to interview French man Ayad.

Ayad was allegedly subdued with capsicum spray last night after he attacked the officers.

Supt Rohweder said police would attempt to interview the suspect today and would likely charge him following that.

He said one of the possible charges was murder.

Police said Mr Jackson — who was stabbed repeatedly while trying to protect Ms Ayliffe-Chung — remains in a critical condition with significant injuries.

The backpackers hostel where the tragedy unfolded remains a crime scene and an autopsy on the 21-year-old British waitress is expected to be carried out today.

Supt Rohweder described the crime as “absolutely horrific”.

“I’ve viewed the CCTV of what actually occurred. There’s no one that can view that CCTV that doesn’t come away feeling sick to the stomach. It’s just absolutely horrific,” he said.

“We’ve got a fairly long set of proceedings that goes from one to the other. It’s not two separate attacks. It’s a number of ongoing incidents.”

He said French authorities had been incredibly helpful. French authorities have spoken to the suspect.

Speaking of Ayad’s injuries, Supt Rohweder said they were sustained while going over a railing.

“The offender has jumped over a railing and - propelled himself is probably a better word - he’s run and propelled himself over a railing and landed flat on his back.”

Supt Rohweder said Ayad had undergone a forensic procedure order, involving fingernail scrapings and the collection of blood.

Supt Rohweder said Mr Jackson’s father was on his way to Australia but Ms Ayliffe-Chung’s family had no immediate plans to travel here.

“We’re certainly far from reaching any positive conclusions as far as motive,” he told media this morning.

He said they would interview the suspect today.

“I imagine we will be a in a position to either charge or release the suspect.”

Supt Rohweder confirmed one line of inquiry was Ayad’s romantic obsession with Ms Ayliffe-Chung.

“There is certainly, at this stage, no indication — certainly from Mia’s point of view, any sort of romantic connection — but that’s certainly something we’re looking at,” he said.

He said there was no evidence Ayad had been under the influence of any hard drugs when the incident unfolded.

“We have had some indication that he may have consumed some cannabis that evening but insofar as anything harder or alcohol there is no evidence to suggest that occurred,” he said.

Supt Rohweder said there was no evidence of any extremist behaviour on Ayad’s behalf.

“There is absolutely no indication of any radicalisation or any political ideology behind this,” he said.

The owner of the hostel today said the killer did not show signs of religious extremism.

John Norris, who Shelley’s Backpackers in Home Hill for 15 years, said the Frenchman had spent time at the hostel a year ago.

“It just wasn’t him ... ,” Mr Norris told Channel Nine today, in relation to any possible extremist links.

Queensland Police this morning said they would have to consider extremism until it can be positively ruled out, but there was nothing to suggest it was a factor.

“From what we have been able to establish there is no evidence of radicalisation,” Supt Rohweder said.

Supt Rohweder said he had viewed the body worn camera footage from the responding officers at the scene.

“I’ve spoken with the officers that attended, the first responders,” he said.

“They are incredibly resilient people who have behaved magnificently. I’ve viewed the body worn video footage.

“Look, I’ll be honest, I would just hope that in the same situation I could have acted as bravely and as professionally as they did.

“They just really, really did well.

“The British consul was here this morning. She spoke to one of the officers involved. She was just extremely grateful to the officer and to the Queensland Police as a whole actually.”

Supt Rohweder also agreed Mr Jackson’s actions in attempting to help Mia were heroic.

“There is no doubt Mr Jackson attempted to render aid to Mia and his subsequent actions were absolutely fantastic and I have no doubt that his actions on that day, as selfless, completely selfless as they were, led to the injuries that he now has,” he said.

Police said the “large number of witnesses” are being interviewed and said grief counsellors were in place in Home Hill.

EARLIER: Police are investigating whether a French backpacker had developed a romantic obsession with English tourist Mia Ayliffe-Chung, who he allegedly stabbed to death while shouting “Allahu akbar”.

A police body camera captured horrific footage of the bloody murder scene at a backpacker hostel in Home Hill in north Queensland, on Tuesday night. Frenchman Smail Ayad was filmed allegedly screaming in Arabic as he was arrested.

The Courier-Mail understands Ayad had to be subdued after injuring several officers in the watch-house last night.

Queensland Police Commissioner Ian Stewart says officers are preparing to formally interview Ayad today.

The frenzied stabbing left another English tourist, 30-year-old Tom Jackson, fighting for life and a third man, a 46-year-old Home Hill resident, with wounds to his legs.

The Australian Federal Police yesterday joined the investigation but it is understood detectives are now looking at whether Ayad had developed an obsession with the 21-year-old waitress and model.

Police were called to Shelley’s Backpackers in Home Hill, 100km south of Townsville, at 11.15pm on Tuesday.

About 30 people, many of them terrified backpackers, are believed to have witnessed the attack.

It is understood Mr Jackson suffered horrific injuries while attempting to save Ms Ayliffe-Chung. The third person, believed to be one of the hostel’s owners, was stabbed in the leg. The man’s dog was also killed.

Ms Ayliffe-Chung was on a world trip and had visited Morocco, India and Indonesia before arriving in Australia earlier this year.

She first settled in Surfers Paradise and was working as a waitress at raunchy Gold Coast nightclub The Bedroom, but had travelled north to work on a farm for three months to extend her visa.

She was staying at the Home Hill hostel, where 29-year-old Ayad was also living.

“The hardest thing (about) living my dream … missing the important home things,” the waitress wrote in July. “Graduations, people in hospital, funerals and birthdays.”

Ms Ayliffe-Chung appeared to have a close relationship with her mother and the pair often interacted on social media.

“You’ll be back in the blink of an eye,” her mother Rosie wrote in reply.

“And we’ll all still be doing the same old stuff for the most part … live your dream and know you’re in all our hearts.”

Friends of Ms Ayliffe-Chung had been following her north Queensland farming adventure with good humour, laughing at her being dirt-covered in photos and her daily descriptions of Queensland wildlife.

The young waitress was less than a week into the three months of required farm work. She had found work on a sugar cane farm, moving rocks from the path of a harvester.

“The first day of moving to the countryside from London, I took her for a walk in a field and she burst into tears because she couldn’t work out how to get out of the field without walking in the mud,” her mother teased on one of Ms Ayliffe-Chung’s posts about life in the outback.

“Day two done,” her daughter wrote on August 18. “6am till 2pm 86 days left. Saw one dead snake and 4 little spiders and 1 water rat the size of (pet cat) Leo. 98 sugar cane rows done. Tan status: Spanish or Italian maybe although it could be dirt we will see.”

The following day, she updated with: “Tan status, it’s confirmed, not dirt, it’s burn.”

Her mother replied: “Love you all around the world and back again … (Wish I’d never said that when you were little, look what happened!).”

Queensland Police Deputy Commissioner Steve Gollschewski said yesterday the investigation was still in its early stages.

“However, initial inquiries indicate that comments that may be construed (as) being of an extremist nature were made by the alleged offender,” he said.

Ayad arrived in Australia in March. Police said they were not aware of him making any local connections during his time in the country.

“Police are not searching for anyone else in relation to the incident at this time,” Mr Gollschewski said.

“This is not about race or religion. It is individual behaviour. Our community should feel reassured that the investigation is thorough and committed and is being fully supported by all responsible agencies.” Ayad was taken to hospital following his arrest and was still to be charged last night.

***************************

‘NO SIGN OF TERRORISM’ IN WOMAN’S STABBING

AUTHORITIES are confident there is no terrorism link to the Home Hill stabbing.

Australian Federal Police are believed to no longer be directly involved with the matter to be handled by Queensland Police as a murder probe.

French national Smail Ayad, 29, yelled “Allahu akbar”, or “God is Great” in Arabic, during his arrest but police suspect it was not an indication of any religious motivation. His arrest was recorded on police body cameras.

Ayad is alleged to have fatally stabbed English woman Mia Ayliffe-Chung, 21, and critically injured British backpacker Tom Jackson, 30, at a backpackers hostel in Home Hill on Tuesday night.

Police Minister Bill Byrne said police did not believe the incident was about race or religion.

One of Australia’s leading terrorism experts, Deakin University Professor Greg Barton, says “Allahu Akbar” has been so popularised, its use is not always a sign of a terror attack.

“(Saying) ‘Allahu akbar’ isn’t confirmation that it’s a religiously inspired attack,” he said. “He could have basically snapped, and in a moment of rage, said something.”

Professor Barton said after a terrorist incident, authorities were quick to check the internet history and phone records of the suspect.

Police sources told The Courier-Mail that while investigations are continuing, Ayad’s history so far indicated no terror links.

Prof Barton said internet search histories provide definitive evidence.

“Search histories are everything,” he said.

Mr Byrne said police also would investigate Ayad’s mental health or the possibility of drugs.

— Matthew Connors