http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/supermarkets-hellhole-for-staff-vacb/article8940656.ece
90
9
Probe exposes sweatshop conditions in major establishments

Thousands of salespersons toil under dismal sweatshop conditions in a number of well-known textile showrooms and supermarkets in the State, according to Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) investigators.

The VACB, acting on a directive of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), inspected at least three such establishments in Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi and Kozhikode last week. The agency found that illegally low wages, forced overtime, long hours with no time off in between, and highly stressful work conditions were the norm in most establishments. The employees were overwhelmingly hard-up women who endured the depressing workplace environments in silence to keep their families off the breadline. They were poorly organised as a workforce and rarely stood up for their rights.

A nexus?

Importantly, the Vigilance inquiry has also found a collusive and possibly corrupt nexus between government officials tasked to ensure labour and health standards in such showrooms and the businesses that operate them.

The enforcement was at best just on paper and limited to fines.

In a telling example, labour and Corporation officials had penalised a prominent showroom in the capital for poor workplace and wage conditions 33 times in the past four years.

The inspections were entered on record and the owner promptly paid the paltry fine. But the lot of the 1,000-odd employees improved little.

The area shown as restroom for the staff was used for commercial purpose.

Few toilets

Toilets were few and restricted to one or two floors. Salespersons were not allowed the use of chairs during business hours. They had to eat lunch standing in stairways. Only less than half of the employees figured in muster rolls. Many worked for less than minimum wages on a daily basis.

Jacob Thomas, Director, VACB, has asked his officers to identify the officials responsible for the situation. Investigators have suggested that exploitative supermarkets be blacklisted in public to empower citizens to shun such establishments that operate under sweatshop conditions.

A showroom was fined 33 times in four years; the fine was paid, but workers’ plight did not change.