http://www.freemalaysiatoday.com/category/nation/2016/10/11/father-jailed-fined-for-misusing-dead-daughters-birth-cert/
90
9
Sabah estate worker Alin Lamburakan admits he had given false information in the MyKad application by Nooraliza Abdullah, his Filipina niece.

KOTA KINABALU: A local estate worker was jailed a day and fined RM10,000, in default 20 months jail, for misusing a personal Malaysian document.

He did not report the death of a daughter and instead used her birth certificate for a MyKad application by his Filipina niece.

Alin Lamburakan, 51, pleaded guilty before Magistrate Cindy Mc Juce Balitus, according to a report in the Daily Express.

He told the court that he had given false information in the MyKad application by his Filipina niece, Nooraliza Abdullah, 35, which used the birth certificate of Noor Hafizah Alin (deceased).

The accused had claimed trial on Aug 15 under Section 25(1)(b) of the National Registration Regulations 1990 (amended 2007). It carries a jail term of up to three years, a fine of up to RM20,000, or both. He was released on bail.

The estate worker committed the offence at 8.30 am on Aug 10 this year at the Enforcement and Investigation Department of the National Registration Department (NRD) at the Federal Administrative Complex in the Sabah capital.

Prosecuting officer Mohd Faizal Tahir of the NRD told the court that Alin and Nooraliza were detained when they went to the NRD to check on the status of the niece’s (Nooraliza) MyKad application. He said that investigations revealed the birth certificate belonged to Noor Hafizah Alin, who had passed away. The death was never reported to the NRD, said Faizal.

The prosecuting officer urged the court to impose a deterrent sentence as the offence was a serious one which involved the country’s security. Alin, at 51, should feel responsible for the country and not misuse an official document to assist a foreigner, said Faizal.

Lawyer Dominic Chew, in mitigation for Alin, said his client had eight children who were dependent on him. He pleaded for leniency. Alin, said the lawyer, merely wanted to assist Nooraliza to obtain a personal document.

Nooraliza had been sentenced to 18 months jail by the Magistrate’s Court on Oct 7 after she pleaded guilty, Chew told the court.