http://classic.iol.co.za/news/crime-courts/alleged-lawley-killers-make-startling-confessions-1.2078501
90
9
INDEPENDENT MEDIA File photo

Johannesburg - Two men arrested in connection with the killing of four Lawley family members have allegedly made startling confessions.

They allegedly claimed they had been hired to carry out the murders because of a rivalry in the skop (meat) business.

According to a Hawks official who is familiar with the investigation, two suspects allegedly made confessions during interrogation.

They claimed they had been hired to kill Siyabonga Dlamini, whose business had become a threat to certain people who were selling skop in Mapetla, Soweto.

Gauteng Hawks head Prince Mokotedi said investigations were at an advanced stage. He said two weapons, a 9mm pistol and a shotgun, that were allegedly used in the killings, had been sent for ballistic tests.

Mokotedi said they recently arrested a third suspect and were hot on the heels of another man.

Six suspects were initially arrested over possession of two pistols and a shotgun which were unlicensed. Mokotedi said that after they were interviewed and interrogated, it emerged that four men were not linked to the Lawley murder.

The Hawks followed up the matter and found the suspects, who had given false names to the police, were allegedly linked to the Lawley murders.

A gang of five men allegedly stormed into a house at Lawley Extension 2 around 8pm on August 13. The gang forced the family members to lie down and shot them execution style.

The victims were Hlengiwe Dlamini, 40, her daughter Samkelisiwe Dlamini, 19, son Siyabonga Dlamini, 21, and his wife Gwen Mncube, 19,

At the time, police maintained they did not know what the motive for the attack was.

However, family members believed it was jealousy over Siyabonga’s meat business. It also emerged that before the incident, there had been three attempts on Siyabonga’s life. He was a sole breadwinner.

According to his aunt, Siyabonga was selling meat in Mapetla, where hawkers work through the night selling offal, cow heels and cow heads.

On the day of the attack, Dlamini tussled with the intruders, and they allegedly shot him five times and chased him when he managed to escape from the house.

Three young children - Dlamini’s youngest, aged 3, and two infant grandchildren - were in the house at the time of the attack but were unharmed. The attackers had left the house and apparently came back to finish off Siyabonga.

Following the brutal murder of the Dlamini family, Hawks national head Berning Ntlemeza vowed he would make sure the killers were brought to justice.

solly.maphumulo@inl.co.za

The Star

IOL News on Facebook

IOL on Twitter

Get our free IOL newsletters - subscribe here...