http://www.vanguardngr.com/2016/06/reps-sex-scandal-mixed-reactions-constituents/
90
9
•As House Ethics Committee launches secret investigation

By Johnbosco Agbakwuru, Peter Duru & Tom Moses

Constituents of the members of the House of Representatives accused of sexual debauchery in the United States yesterday reacted with mixed feelings to the allegations.

Meanwhile, it emerged yesterday that the House of Representatives committee on ethics has commenced a secret investigation into the allegations.

The reactions from their constituents ranged from outrage to solidarity depending on perceptions of the constituents on the three lawmakers.

The legislators named in the petition lodged by the United States Mission in Nigeria were Mohammed Garba Gololo (APC – Bauchi), Samuel Ikon (PDP – Akwa Ibom), and Mark Gbillah (APC – Benue).

The three legislators who were part of a leadership training programme in Cleveland, Ohio were said to have acted improperly during their visit. Gololo was said to have behaved improperly towards a housekeeper in his hotel room while Ikon and Gbillah were alleged to have asked hotel parking attendants to help them solicit for prostitutes.

Stakeholders in Ikon’s Etinan Federal Constituency in Akwa Ibom State yesterday reacted diversely to the allegations even as the lawmaker insisted that it was a case of mistaken identity.

A stakeholder in the constituency, Elder Ufot Inyang, while decrying the allegation expressed shock the allegation would come against Ikon who he described as a church elder.

“Whether the information is true or not, why should he be the one mentioned? I think our public office holders should learn to conduct themselves well at all times. I don’t think he has done well and should therefore apologise to the Akwa-Ibom State people and Nigerians”, Inyang insisted.

Speaking in a similar vein, Mr. Idongesit Okon, a legal practitioner expressed disappointment that such an allegation could be linked to a Nigerian lawmaker.

“In Nigeria, there are certain things we do as a way of life, regardless of the moral implications but in the US, such things we do and go scot free here are considered immoral and criminal suggesting that such an individual ought not to hold public office. “So, I think he should apologise immediately to his people and Nigerians” Okon said.

Mrs. Victoria Otu, also from Etinan Federal Constituency however reacted differently to the allegation saying Ikon was at liberty to enjoy his life and make himself happy saying mountain should not be created out of molehill.

But in a statement made available to the media, Ikon refuted the allegation saying it was a case of mistaken identity and a demonstration of bad blood by the US Mission in Nigeria.

A constituent and schoolmate of Gbillah of Gwer/Gwer West constituency, who spoke on condition of anonymity, however, called for a thorough investigation into the matter.

He also advised those fingered in the act to clear their names by cooperating with the panel set up by the leadership of the House to investigate the issue.

He said, “Those allegedly accused by the American Ambassador must take steps to clear their names by saying all that they knew about the matter.

“They should make a formal statement on the matter and also appear before the committee set up by the House to investigate the matter in order to clear their names.

“The question is, is there any cogent evidence by the American government to prove the allegation? The Dominique Strauss-Kahn saga easily comes to mind in this matter, I hope the affected members are able to prove their innocence in this matter.

“The Mark Gbillah I knew as schoolmate at Mount Saint Gabriel Secondary School Makurdi, was brought up in a Christian home and a gentle man who I strongly believe shouldn’t be involved in such unholy act.’’

Meantime most constituents contacted over the issue declined comments on the matter, saying that the panel instituted by the House to investigate the allegation should be allowed to complete its assignment and come out with a statement to prove the guilt or innocence of the accused persons.

Although, Chairman, House Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Abdulrazak Namdas had told journalists on Thursday that the leadership of the House had commenced investigations on the matter, Saturday Vanguard reliably gathered that the House Committee on Ethics had also commenced its own investigations over the allegations.

A source close to the Committee hinted that the Ethics Committee of the House under the leadership of Rep Ossai Nicholas Ossai, had commenced investigation on the matter to establish the veracity or otherwise of the allegation.

Ossai could not be reached yesterday on the development.

However, the source informed that going by the weighty nature of the allegation, the Ethics Committee would not wait for instruction or a letter from the Speaker before investigating the matter.

According to the source, it is the responsibility of the Ethics Committee to carry out investigations on issues that have to do with ethical behaviour of members even if the leadership of the House is doing separate investigations.

The Standing Orders of the House of Representatives, Eight Edition, page 87 Order 123 that spells out the duties of the Ethics and Privileges Committee says the Committee’s jurisdiction shall cover measures relating to the code of conducts of members and that the Committee is authorised to recommend to the House from time to time such administrative actions as it may deem appropriate to establish or enforce as standards of conduct for members.

The Committee is also empowered to investigate any alleged violation by a member of the Code of Conduct or of any law, rule, regulation or other standard of conduct applicable to the conduct of such member and after notice and hearing to recommend to the House by resolution or otherwise, such action as the Committee may deem appropriate in the circumstances.

However, the three lawmakers have denied the allegations against them, alleging character assassination and blackmail and have threatened to seek legal redress on the matter.