http://www.wsj.com/articles/line-and-wechat-strike-advertising-gold-1466613181
90
9
ENLARGE Line says ads accounted for under a third of its revenue last year. The company also earned revenue from mobile games and virtual stickers that people buy and send to one another. Photo: Bloomberg News

Marketing on mobile messaging apps has yet to take root in the U.S. and Europe in a big way, but it is already in full swing in Asia.

And even then, Japan’s Line and China’s WeChat, two of the dominant mobile messaging applications in the region, are just beginning to scratch the surface of a potential advertising gold mine.

THE AD REVOLUTION

The operators of Line and WeChat are enabling marketers to tap into platforms that provide hundreds of millions of users with a variety of customized services beyond messaging, including hailing taxis, streaming music, ordering food and making payments.

“In terms of monetization, the messenger apps in Asia like WeChat and Line are light years ahead of Western messaging apps,” said Serkan Toto, a Tokyo-based mobile industry consultant.

Unlike its Asian counterparts, Facebook Inc. doesn’t make money from its two mobile messaging services, Facebook Messenger and WhatsApp. But both apps are testing models that could potentially generate revenue, such as showing users messages sponsored by advertisers.

WeChat, which is owned by Chinese social-network giant Tencent Holdings Ltd., has more than 762 million monthly active users world-wide, mainly in China.

Line Corp. boasts some 218 million monthly users, two-thirds of whom are from Japan, Taiwan, Thailand and Indonesia. The company, which is owned by South Korean search portal Naver Corp. , is aiming to raise $900 million in a public offering next month.

Ads accounted for under a third of Line’s ¥120 billion ($1.1 billion) in revenue last year. The company also earned revenue from mobile games and virtual stickers—large emoticons often featuring cute characters—that people buy and send to one another.

Line allows businesses to create official accounts for a fee, and to then send information and free promotional stickers to subscribed users.

Tokyo-based travel agency H.I.S. Co. uses its corporate account on Line to offer special coupons and other perks to its subscribers, who now number around 7.7 million. Using the chat function, subscribers can also contact H.I.S. directly for inquiries.

Last year, Line launched a new service aimed at smaller companies and individuals who may not be able to afford fees for an official account. Similar to Facebook pages, the account allows users to communicate directly with brands and businesses. The company also recently began providing optimized advertisements based on demographics and data on users’ interests.

Tencent began experimenting with WeChat banner ads in 2014, allowing companies that hold official WeChat accounts to place ads on other companies’ official pages. Last year, WeChat started showing ads on the app’s Moments section, where users post photos and updates, and this year opened that section to more marketers with smaller budgets.

ENLARGE

Many businesses communicate with consumers and share discount coupons on WeChat to attract them to their stores. When luxury fashion brand Chanel held a fashion show in Beijing last month, it used its official WeChat account to interact with guests, sharing videos from other shows and previews of its new collection.

There are challenges to stoking revenue while also keeping messaging app users happy.

Ge Yu, a cosmetics sales manager in Guangzhou, says he hasn’t been annoyed by ads on his WeChat Moments page so far.

“Sometimes I take a glance at them, but I never click on the links,” he said.

Even if the volume of ads grows, as WeChat is planning, Mr. Ge said it would be hard to stop using the app because everyone he knows uses it.

Write to Alexander Martin at alexander.martin@wsj.com and Juro Osawa at juro.osawa@wsj.com