http://www.taipeitimes.com/News/world/archives/2016/06/10/2003648306
90
9
The Guardian

Italian and British police are urgently investigating whether they caught the wrong person in a much-hyped anti-smuggling operation said to have netted one of the world’s most-wanted people smugglers.

Investigators in both countries on Wednesday morning announced with great fanfare that they had seized Medhanie Yehdego Mered, a 35-year-old Eritrean whom an Italian prosecutor called “the boss of one of the most important criminal groups operating in central Africa and Libya.”

Britain’s National Crime Agency (NCA), which was involved in the investigation, hailed the capture of “one of the world’s most-wanted people smugglers,” following his extradition on Wednesday to Italy from Sudan, where he had been arrested.

However, just hours later both Italy and Britain were looking into whether the Sudanese had sent them the wrong man, after three close friends of the detainee alleged that he was the victim of mistaken identity.

They said the man sent to Italy was Medhanie Tesfamariam Berhe, a 27-year-old refugee arrested in a street in Khartoum late last month.

They said the man sent to Italy was Medhanie Tesfamariam Berhe, known to some friends by his ancestral name of Kidane, a 27-year-old refugee arrested in a street in Khartoum late last month.

He shared a first name with the wanted man, but he had never been to Libya, where Mered was supposed to have centered his operations, and had nothing to do with people smuggling, the three men said.

Fshaye Tasfai, a 42-year-old Eritrean exile now living in Sicily, and Berhe’s cousin, said he had grown up with Kidane in Asmara, the Eritrean capital.

“It’s the wrong guy,” Tasfai said. “It’s incredible — he’s not a human trafficker. He’s from my family. He lived in my father’s house. He left Eritrea in 2014, and then went to Khartoum about a year ago. He lived with my brothers and sisters in Khartoum. He didn’t have a job so we use to send him money.”

Tasfai’s account was corroborated by one of Berhe’s flatmates in Khartoum.

“He’s my best friend,” one said. “He’s innocent.”

His flatmate said Berhe was arrested in the street late last month before being taken home for his room to be searched. Then he disappeared for several days before reappearing — inexplicably — in Rome on Wednesday.

“They’ve definitely got the wrong guy,” said a third friend, who lived in the same area. “He’s not a human trafficker, he’s just a simple refugee. We used to drink tea together.”

Meron Estefanos, a Sweden-based Eritrean broadcaster well known in the Eritrean diaspora, was the first to raise the alarm.

“I have almost 400 people writing to me saying: I know this guy, he grew up with me,” she said. “This is the wrong person.”

The Italian and British authorities said they were looking into the claims, but neither would publicly admit to any mistakes.

“We have noted your report,” an NCA spokesperson said. “This is a complex multi-partner operation and it is too soon to speculate about these claims. The NCA is confident in its intelligence-gathering process.”

If it is the wrong man, the news will come as blow to European investigators, who hoped they had finally snared one of their most-wanted suspects. More than 320,000 people reached Italy from Libya in 2014 and last year, including more than 70,000 Eritreans.

By his account, Mered — the smuggler who allegedly remains at large — had a hand in roughly 4 percent of this market.