http://www.business-standard.com/article/current-affairs/jayalalithaa-being-constantly-monitored-apollo-hospital-116101000656_1.html
90
9
Jayalalithaa on constant watch, says hospital

Jayalalithaa (68) was admitted to the hospital on September 22 after she complained of fever and dehydration

With Chief Minister continuing to receive treatment, a stream of high-profile visitors, including Kerala Governor P Sathasivam and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, on Monday visited the in Chennai and enquired about her health.



The hospital, where the AIADMK general secretary was admitted on September 22 after she complained of fever and dehydration, said she was "constantly being monitored". AIADMK is a party; its full form is All Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam.



"G Khilnani, department of medicine, All Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), visited again on Sunday and Monday and examined the chief minister," the hospital's chief operating officer, Subbiah Viswanathan, said in a release. Khilnani, part of a three-member panel which had examined last week, had discussions with the hospital's expert panel and "concurred with the present line of treatment" being given to the chief minister, the release said.



continues to be under treatment and "is being constantly monitored by the intensivists and other consultants on the expert panel," it added.



Necessary respiratory support, antibiotics, nutrition, supportive therapy, and passive physiotherapy were being given to her, the release said.



Earlier, Union minister M Venkaiah Naidu, who visited the hospital on Sunday, described as a "fighter" and said she would continue to serve the people of Tamil Nadu.



"I am confident that she has a strong willpower and she is always a fighter. I am confident that she will fight back, become normal and continue to serve the people of and that is my wish," he told reporters after making a "courtesy call" on Governor Chennamaneni Vidyasagar Rao at Raj Bhavan.



Kerala Governor P Sathasivam, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Puducherry Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi also visited the hospital and quoted the doctors as saying that "was recovering".



Vijayan, accompanied by Sathasivam, visited the hospital and held discussions with hospital CMD Prathap Reddy.



"We met Dr Prathap Reddy and the other doctors providing treatment to the chief minister. The specialists informed us that she was responding well to the treatment," Sathasivam told reporters.



"Within a short period, she is likely to be discharged and it is possible for her to take charge of the administration.



We also pray for her speedy recovery," he said.



Vijayan said the two had come to "convey the collective good wishes of the people of Kerala".

Press Trust of India