http://www.philstar.com/region/2016/10/07/1631228/rise-dengue-cases-negros-oriental-alarms-doh-region-18
90
9
CEBU, Philippines - The Department of Health-Region 18 (Negros Island Region) expressed alarm and worry over the rise of dengue cases in Negros Oriental for the past weeks, with a total of 18 deaths in different parts of the province compared to only eight casualties last year.

From January to September 24, this year, the DOH-18 recorded more than 3,400 dengue cases compared to only 1,100 of the same period last year.

Socrates Villamor, officer-in-charge chief of the DOH-18 Local Health Support Division of NIR, disclosed the increase is roughly 197 percent more than the same period last year.

Villamor said this is not only happening in the NIR but throughout the country because of the rainy season, and that this year also falls within the cycle for which an increase in dengue cases is expected .

Last month, an epidemic was declared at Barangays Poblacion 1 and Poblacion 2 in Bais City but the number of cases decreased based on the latest monitoring conducted by the DOH-18. Bais City recorded six deaths, Villamor said.

There is no other way in controlling the spread of the dengue virus but to control the vector through seek and destroy operation of possible breeding sites of mosquitoes, he said.

Freeman ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch:

Villamor told The Freeman it would be better to hit the source than the adult mosquitoes, which is more difficult. He then enjoined every Negrense to pool resources together in cooperation with the barangay, municipal and city officials because the DOH could not do it alone.

Meanwhile, four patients were found positive of chikungunya disease in Tanjay City after taking blood samples of them, the results of which were released by the Regional Research Institute for Tropical Medicine (RITM).

Villamor said in one barangay there were about 20 individuals with almost the same symptoms of chikungunya, but only four were found positive..

As of now, no more reported cases for the same, he said, adding that similar to dengue, the prominent symptoms for chikungunya are joint pains, high grade fever, and rashes, among others but without bleeding. (FREEMAN)