http://www.newsday.co.tt/news/0,234921.html
90
9
A d v e r t i s e m e n t

Kaleb feeling better

By Richardson Dhalai Sunday, October 23 2016

Clean-up of an oil-polluted watercourse at Vance River, Guapo, which a four-year-old boy fell into last Wednesday while on his way to school, is expected to be completed by early next week.

State-owned oil company, Petrotrin, in a media statement yesterday also noted the boy, Kaleb Hart, was being monitored by the company’s medical personnel.



According to reports, Kaleb, his step-father. Junior Jerome, 39, and four other children were crossing the only bridge that gives them access to the main road, on Wednesday, when he fell into the watercourse which was covered with a thick sheet of oil.



The incident triggered protests on Friday morning by aggrieved residents of Smith Street, Vance River, where the watercourse flows, who pointed out that this was not the first time a child had fallen into the river.



Kaleb’s mother Lisa Wellington said he was taken by Petrotrin medical personnel to its Point Fortin medical centre for a checkup on Friday night and she was given a cream to rub on his skin should any rash break out on his body. Kaleb was also given antibiotics.



“He’s coming along,” Wellington said, adding, “he is getting better but so far Petrotrin has not said anything about any compensation because this is my son’s life and it is not his fault what happened.” She said Petrotrin had also kept the clothing which he was wearing during the time of the incident.



“They (Petrotrin) have to come out and say something about how they intend to assist my son,” she said.



And as for Kaleb, he was busy playing at the home of a family friend when Sunday Newsday visited yesterday, pausing only to say that he was “feeling better.” “I’m feeling good,” he said while busily climbing a step ladder.



Asked if his skin was itching, he shook his head vigorously while bounding from step to step. His mother said she has to take him back to Petrotrin’s Point Fortin health centre tomorrow.



Another resident, Natasha Mitchell, 42, who lives obliquely opposite the oil-laden watercourse, said the fumes were affecting the breathing of her fourmonth- old baby Winfield Paul.



“Since last month, when the oil come down the river, my children have all been affected by the fumes and no-one is saying anything or how they are going to help my family,” she said.



Mitchell said her eldest son, Wendell Paul, nine, had started to experience eye problems and the medical staff at the La Brea health facility recommended that he visit a private eye doctor.



She said her two daughters, Whitney, seven, and Kaler, four, had missed a number of school days as they had developed a persistent cough which she believed was due to the fumes.



“Even when you are inside the house, you smelling the fumes,” she said. “It is overbearing.” In its statement, Petrotrin noted Kaleb had been “seen by a doctor at Petrotrin’s Medical Centre in Point Fortin and then transferred via company ambulance to Augustus Long Hospital, at Pointea- Pierre for monitoring” when the incident had initially taken place.



“Later that day the child was discharged and returned home,” the statement added.



“The company continues to monitor and provide follow-up care to the family. A team of company officials visited the area, met with the residents. Remedial works have commenced and clean-up is expected to be completed early next week.” Petrotrin stated.



The company noted the source of the oil leak seemed to be related to an abandoned oil well.



“The company thanks the residents for their understanding as we continue to work with them to ensure that restoration efforts are concluded in a



