http://www.khmertimeskh.com/news/31382/garment-workers-injured-in-crash/
90
9
More than 70 garment workers were injured yesterday morning when the open truck they were traveling in overturned in the capital’s Chroy Changvar district, the second large-scale accident involving garment workers in the country this week after 30 were injured in Kampong Chhnang province on Wednesday.



According to a Labor Ministry announcement shortly after the accident yesterday, the workers were traveling in a truck at high speed that crashed after the driver swerved to avoid a motorcycle. The accident happened at 6:30am in Bakheng commune.



“This accident of the truck crash caused 72 workers to be injured, including 43 workers seriously. They were all sent to hospital immediately for treatment,” the statement said.



It noted that 63 workers were sent to Calmette Hospital, with nine receiving treatment at Sokleap Metrey Poly Clinic.



District police said yesterday that they are searching for the driver of the truck, who fled the scene of the accident.



A report by the National Social Security Fund (NSSF) offered a slightly different series of events for the crash. It said the truck had accelerated to avoid a motorcycle and then attempted to overtake a tuk-tuk, before swerving to avoid pedestrians crossing the road, which had caused the truck to overturn.



It added that the NSSF was assisting the injured and their families.



The crash in Kampong Chhnang province’s Samaky Meanchey district, which seriously injured one garment worker and caused injuries to another 29, was the result of their truck crashing into the back of a bus, according to a separate report by the NSSF.



Pav Sina, president of the Collective Union of Movement of Workers, said that despite increased preventative measures from authorities, accidents involving garment workers are still happening with worrying frequency.



“We see traffic accidents still occur for workers almost every day, which makes us very worried for their safety,” he said.



“I think that employers and the government, especially the Labor Ministry, should look into the possibility of building accommodation, or providing accommodation, for workers near their factories,” he suggested, as a way of reducing travel times and hopefully accidents.



He added that a review of the trucks used to transport garment workers needs to be undertaken, with dangerous ones taken off the road.



According to the NSSF, in the first half of this year, there were 2,260 road accidents involving garment workers, leading to 42 deaths, 412 serious injuries and 2,395 less serious injuries.



This is a marked reduction in all areas over the same period last year, during which 70 workers died in 3,122 accidents, the NSSF noted.