http://nation.com.pk/islamabad/07-Sep-2016/punjab-safe-cities-project-1st-phase-to-complete-in-oct
90
9
Rawalpindi-Chief Minister Mian Shahbaz Sharif has said that the first phase of Punjab Safe Cities Project would be completed next month.



This Chief Minister stated this while addressing the passing out ceremony of probationer police sub-inspector here at Police Training College Sihala yesterday.

He said this is the largest safe city project in the entire region.



The chief minister said the provincial government is focusing on training of police and equipping them with modern weapons and technology.

He said inductions in police department have been made in a transparent manner.

He expressed the confidence that the newly inducted police officer would strive hard for upholding of justice in the society.



Sharif said police should take side of the oppressed and initiate action against the oppressors in the province.

The history of Punjab police is full of service delivery, honesty and martyrdoms and the nation is proud of it.



He said that Front Desk will be established in all the police stations for providing speedy justice to the people.

A large number of educated youth have been joining police force and this will soon change the “thana culture,” he said.



“The police officers are being trained in accordance with international standards and they will not accept bribe or any political pressure while performing duties,” he claimed.

He said the formation of Dolphin Force and Anti Terrorist Squad helped wipe out terrorism from Lahore.

He said the government is working on Safe City Project in Lahore and it will be implemented soon.

“The provincial government launched Safe City Project by spending Rs 12 billion while the same project was launched with Rs 16 billion by the PPP government,” Shahbaz Sharif added.



He said the government under the wise leadership of Prime Minister Mian Nawaz Sharif is heading towards a prosperous Pakistan dreamed by Quaid-e-Azam Muhammad Ali Jinnah and Dr Allama Muhammad Iqbal.



“Guarding 100 million people in Punjab is prime responsibility of police,” CM said.

He also applauded the services of Commandant Police College Sihala Suhail Habib Tajik and his team for training the police officers in a magnificent manner.



IG Punjab Mushtaq Ahmed Sukhera, while speaking on the occasion, said the government is spending huge funds for bringing betterment in police department.

He said a total of 220 front desks have been established in police stations with deputing well-mannered and educated civilian officers for entertaining the complainants.

Similarly, a complaint cell has also been opened in IG Officer where people had lodged 14,000 complaints against police officers, he said.

“We took action on the complaints and solved the problems being faced by the complainants,” the IG added.



Earlier, Commandant Police College Sihala Suhail Habib Tajik presented a detailed progress report about the college.

He said more than 1,000 police officers have passed out from the college so far.

He informed that police officers from eight friendly countries were also trained by the college staffers.



A smart contingent of police guard presented guard of honour to CM Punjab Mian Shehbaz Sharif.

The police officers also staged mock exercises and displayed their skills to overwhelm the terrorists.

The CM also inaugurated the newly constructed auditorium, shooting room and driving projects in Police College Sihala.



The passing out parade was also witnessed by Punjab Law Minister Rana Sana Ullah, Home Secretary Punjab Maj (Retd) Azam Salman, Provincial Minister for Minerals Chaudhry Sher Ali, Commissioner Rawalpindi Azmat Mehmood, MNA Malik Abrar Ahmed, diplomats, retired police officers and others.



As many as 297 police officers including 37 females of SI ranks passed out.

Tight security arrangements were put in place on the occasion by police to avoid any untoward incident.

