http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3832502/ACT-man-shouldn-t-receive-life-sentence-killing-ex-girlfriend-Daniela-D-Addario-lawyer-argues.html
90
9
A lawyer for a 29-year-old man who killed his ex-girlfriend before having sex with her body said his client should not receive a life sentence because it 'is not the worst case of murder.'

Josaia Vosikata appeared at the ACT Supreme Court on Tuesday for his sentencing hearing after pleading guilty earlier this year to murdering Daniela D'Addario, 35, in April 2015.

Although the prosecutor is pushing for a life sentence, Vosikata's lawyer, Paul Edmonds, said Vosikata does not deserve the punishment because 'he's no Marcus Rappel or Ivan Milat,' according to ABC.

Scroll down for video

A lawyer for Josaia Vosikata (pictured), who murdered his ex-girlfriend Daniela D'Addario (pictured) in Canberra in April 2015, said his client should not receive a life sentence because 'he's no Ivan Milat'

Vosikata, 29, appeared at the ACT Supreme Court on Tuesday for his sentencing hearing after pleading guilty earlier this year to strangling his 35-year-old girlfriend (pictured) of three months before having sex with her corpse

He said his client had become obsessed with Ms D'Addario and didn't accept their relationship had come to an end but argued that he didn't appear to be a threat to the community.

ACT Director of Public Prosecutions Jon White told the Supreme Court Vosikata had planned a 'violent revenge which resulted in murder,' and that the fact he filmed himself having intercourse with her corpse after 'was redolent of the taking of a trophy.'

Although he initially pleaded not guilty to the charge of indecently interfering with a corpse, it was later included as a 'related offence' to his murder plea, meaning it would be considered by the judge during sentencing but wouldn't receive a separate sentence, according to The Canberra Times.

Mr White said in the weeks before her death, Vosikata had searched online for 'remote cottages', 'remote national parks, and 'how to kill without joy,' The Canberra Times reported.

Vosikata had become obsessed with Ms D'Addario (pictured) and didn't accept their relationship had come to an end but argued that he didn't appear to be a threat to the community

Court documents revealed Ms D'Addario ended their three-month relationship but Vosikata did not accept the breakup and began sitting outside her apartment and calling and texting her repeatedly.

After Vosikata broke into her apartment using a spare key and tried to sexually assault her, Ms D'Addario sent him an email asking him to not contact her again, documents said.

'Joey Please listen to me ... I do not want to be your friend, I do not want to ever see you again, I do not want to talk to you. Do not send me emails or texts or try to call me. Do not come to my house,' the email read.

Nine days later, Vosikata broke in again and choked her to death.

After her murder, Vosikata tried to drive Ms D'Addario's blue Hyandai Getz to the NSW's south coast and then fled into the bush after he was stopped by police, but was later discovered and arrested (pictured)

After her murder, Vosikata tried to drive Ms D'Addario's blue Hyandai Getz to Bermagui on NSW's south coast but the wheels got trapped in the sand.

He then fled into the bush after he was stopped by police but was later discovered and arrested.

Ms D'Addario's sister told the Supreme Court this week she would never forgive her sister's killer 'no matter how remorseful or sorry he claims to be,' The Canberra Times reported.

'No sentence you hand out will bring my sister back,' she said while urging the judge to hand down a life sentence.