http://www.independent.ie/life/family/family-features/i-dont-think-ive-ever-been-this-happy-dublin-taxi-driver-saves-the-day-after-national-appeal-for-missing-engagement-ring-35041829.html
90
9
An Irish bride revealed she has never been as happy as the moment she located her precious engagement ring, which was accidentally left in the back of a Dublin taxi six days before her wedding.

‘I don't think I've ever been this happy’: Dublin taxi driver saves the day after national appeal for missing engagement ring

An Irish bride revealed she has never been as happy as the moment she located her precious engagement ring, which was accidentally left in the back of a Dublin taxi six days before her wedding.

An Irish bride revealed she has never been as happy as the moment she located her precious engagement ring, which was accidentally left in the back of a Dublin taxi six days before her wedding.

‘I don't think I've ever been this happy’: Dublin taxi driver saves the day after national appeal for missing engagement ring

Joanne Nesbitt will be reunited with the band after a national search helped to link her with the taxi driver who carried the bride and her husband after they wed in a registry office last week, ahead of their ceremony abroad.

An image of the taxi captured on CCTV outside Becky Morgans in Dublin, in which Joanne lost her engagement ring. The car is missing a hubcap from its rear passenger side

Read more: Can you help this Irish man looking to be reunited with his long-lost best man after 40 years? Nesbitt and her husband Stephen Whelehan will say their vows in Portugal on Thursday and were relieved to locate the precious ring after an appeal on Independent.ie and RTE Radio One's Liveline.

"I don't think I've ever been this happy. Thank God for that taxi driver." The bride-to-be admitted she was blown away by the kindness she has received since losing her ring, particularly from Christopher Murphy Jewellers who offered to replace the lost valuable.

Read more: Are these the most Irish wedding pictures ever? Groom arrives to ceremony in a decked out John Deere tractor Earlier today Joanne said losing the ring would have broken her heart.

An image and description of Joanne's rings

“The ring is so special to me and I’m desperate to find it. Stephen proposed to me with it in Alaska on a glacier last year, and I would be heartbroken to lose it forever." The bride will be reunited with her ring ahead of the ceremony later this week.

"He's going to drop it off at the best man's house after picking up All-Ireland tickets and we'll have the ring on Thursday in Portugal," said Joanne.

Online Editors