http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/defence/two-indian-spies-leaked-info-of-military-deployments-in-gujarat-sir-creek-for-terrorist-attacks-more-pak-spy-modules/articleshow/55087894.cms
90
9
NEW DELHI: Sensitive defence documents on the deployments and strength of the Border Security Force and the Indian Army along the India-Pakistan border, especially in Gujarat and the Sir Creek area, were allegedly recovered from the two arrested Indian spies and their Pakistani ISI handler, Delhi Police said today.The Delhi Police said the documents recovered have serious implications on national security. It also said that the interrogation of the three men revealed that Pakistan allegedly wants specific information on the military deployments on the Indian side of the border in Gujarat and Rajasthan . This is being done to allegedly provide terrorists with another entry point into India and other sensitive locations to attack, besides the usual targets- Jammu and Kashmir and Punjab.The police said there are also other spy modules and more arrests are likely to happen next week. Another member of the module, Shoaib, has been detained by Rajasthan Police and is being brought to Delhi.In another revelation, the police said the Pakistan High Commission (based in Delhi) was allegedly trying to get in contact with government officials through their network of spies. The police is probing the roles of other members of the High Commission.A probe on the alleged exploitation of some girls for honeytraps is also on.In this espionage racket, a Pakistan High Commission member is allegedly the kingpin, according to the police. The man has been identified by the police as Mehmood Akhtar (Pic of alleged Pakistan ISI agent, Mehmood Akhtar, released by Delhi Police)“Akhtar was in the 40 Baloch Regiment of the Pakistan Army as a Havildar (sergeant) and was recruited in the ISI three years ago. Two and half years ago he was posted in the Pakistan high Commission. He was deliberately kept at the visa section, so that common Indians come in contact with him and he induces them to spy for Pakistan. He recruited indians, who had relatives across the border, gave the information procured from them to the High Commission, which was passed forward. They got money for it,” said Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) Ravindra Yadav.Akhtar has not been arrested by the Delhi Police, as he has diplomatic immunity. He has been let off. Foreign Secretary S. Jaishankar had summoned the Pakistan High Commissioner to convey that Akhtar has been declared persona non grata for espionage activities.The two alleged spies who have been arrested by the Crime Branch are Maulana Ramzan Khan alias Hazrat and Subhash Jangir. Both hail from Nagaur, Rajasthan. Khan teaches namaz and small children. Jangir ran a small business. “He suffered great loss of money. Maulana knew he needed it, so he included him in the espionage ring,” said Yadav.The two accused have been remanded to police custody for 12 days by a local court.The module was allegedly active since the past one and a half years, police said. Since past six months, the police got input that Khan and Jangir were spying for the Pakistan ISI. “The spying was of the BSF and army deployments in the border areas,” said Yadav, adding the bank accounts of Khan and Jangir will be checked to ascertain the amount of money they received for these tasks.All three persons allegedly met once a month and exchanged defence related documents. Khan and Jangir had come to Delhi two to three times and met Akhtar.On October 25, the police was tipped off that the three men would meet at the Delhi zoo at 10 am on October 26 and exchange documents and money. A Crime Branch team laid a trap there and apprehended them.“The recoveries we made from them were of defence maps, BSF and army deployments along the border areas of Gujarat and Sir Creek, a list of BSF and Army personnel who have been transferred and retired, and visa related docs, which they were to give to Pak operative. And they would have got money from him,” said the officer.On being asked how were the alleged spies successful in procuring defence related information being civilians, Yadav said, “There are some names with us which will not reveal now.”Yadav explained that the Pakistan High Commission were allegedly trying to get in contact with government officials. “Through these spies, the Commission wanted to get in touch with government officials,” he said.When the three men were brought to the police’s interrogation location, Akhtar disguised himself as Mehboob Rajput and showed an Aadhar card which his residential address of Lal Kuan, Chandni Chowk.The three men were interrogated at a Crime Branch office, where the latter learnt of Akhtar’s true identity.“He invoked diplomatic immunity. We told him you don’t have any proof of it. He said check my identity card. Our Deputy Commissioner of Police checked it out through the Ministry of External Affairs. A MEA representative came to the interrogation location and contacted the Pakistan High Commission, who identified Akhtar as their man. We then handed him over,” said Yadav.Another person who is part of the racket has been identified as Shoaib, a resident of Jodhpur, police said. He is a visa agent in Jodhpur. “Shoaib recruited Khan, who in turn recruited Jangir and others, whom we will investigate and if necessary arrest,” said the officer.Last year, a similar spy racket on armed forces deployment in Jammu and Kashmir was unearthed by the Delhi Police. An employee of the Pakistan High Commission had come under scanner of the investigating agencies then as well.