http://www.news.com.au/national/tasmania/carnage-and-chaos-as-wild-weather-howls-in/news-story/8e4ef7babb4a2e6f6773f8e950bfaedf
90
9
HELEN KEMPTON and ZARA GUDNASON Mercury

THE state was hit with chaos and destruction as high winds and fallen trees cut the power supply, boats were beached, roofs blown off and snow fell on Mt Wellington and the Central Highlands.

Motorists were urged to drive to the conditions after a series of crashes on slippery wet roads had traffic banked up for kilometres coming into Hobart during morning peak hour.

The Tasman Bridge was gridlocked early in the morning.

In one of the more serious crashes, two drivers had to been freed from their vehicles after a head-on collision near the Fork in the Road store on Algona Rd, Kingston.

A 46-year-old woman driving a Subaru Forester and a 20-year-old man driving a Mitsubishi Magna were taken to hospital with non-life threatening injuries after being trapped in their cars.

Constable Ben Fogarty said the crash was still under investigation but police bel­ieve weather may have been a factor.

“We are urging drivers to drive to the conditions, especially keeping a sufficient distance between the car in front of them,” Constable Fog­arty said.

A boat blew ashore in Wineglass Bay on Tasmania’s East Coast and the roof was ripped from Rose Bay High School on Hobart’s eastern shore.

The school was closed yesterday for the first day of term four but will reopen today.

“An assembly will be held first thing this morning to inform students of restrictions to damaged B-Block and subsequent room changes,” the school said on its Facebook page.

TasNetworks crews restored power to about 2000 customers who experienced weather-related outages.

About 90 customers were expected to wait until this afternoon before having power restored.

The worst hit areas were the Launceston suburb of ­Rocherlea, Quoiba, Andover, Kingston, Huonville, Ranelagh, Nichols Rivulet, Ridgeway, Southport, Neika, Longley, Killora and North Bruny areas.

“The majority of these outages have been caused by sev­ere weather conditions, however a suspected vandalised turret at Rocherlea has meant emergency underground cable repairs have occurred and the turret replaced,” TasNetworks said.

“Some customers have experienced long delays due to the level of damage caused by strong winds and rain, combined with restricted access levels in some areas.

“Unfortunately, this means a small number of customers will remain without power overnight.”

The weather bureau lifted its severe weather warning for Tasmania early yesterday morning but said it would continue to monitor the situation and issue further warnings if necessary.

The highest wind gusts recorded were 156km/h at Mt Wellington, 124km/h at Tasman Island, 113km/h at Cape Grim in the far North-West, 104km/h at Mount Read, 85km/h at King Island and 83km/h at Hobart and Strahan.

A flood watch for Northern, Central and South-West River basins was finalised before midday.

In the 24 hours to 9am yesterday, rainfall totals of 30 to 50mm were reported, mainly in the west and south.

The highest rainfalls were 54mm at Narcissus River and 48mm at Lake St Clair with another 20 to 30mm falling throughout yesterday.

Snow fell on Mt Wellington and at the Great Lake and Arthurs Lake.

The state should get some respite later this week.

Conditions are expected to ease considerably on Thursday before Hobart basks in a sunny 18C on Friday.

The windy conditions hit hard across Australia’s eastern seaboard, with thousands of Victorian residents set to remain without power until the middle of this week.

Authorities continued a massive clean-up after the state was hit by wild winds.

Crews were working to restore power to more than 40,000 homes following the one-in-five year event, which on the weekend claimed the life of a woman who was crushed in her home by a falling tree.

About 42,000 households remained without power yesterday afternoon, most in Melbourne’s outer eastern suburbs, the Dandenong Ranges and the Upper Yarra.

The winds also were reported to have blown out the eternal flame at Melbourne’s Shrine of Remembrance.