http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/noida/OPPO-to-set-up-mobile-phone-unit-says-Greater-Noida/articleshow/54685765.cms
90
9
GREATER NOIDA: After Micromax , OPPO, a leading manufacturer of mobile electronic devices, has confirmed an investment of Rs 2,000 crore for setting up shop in Greater Noida. Deepak Agarwal, chief executive officer (CEO) of Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority (GNIDA), told TOI on Tuesday that if everything goes according to plan, OPPO is likely to start producing mobile handsets and other devices in Greater Noida within 18 months of being allotted land.A team of officials from the company had inspected two sites in Ecotech sector of Greater Noida last month."We have earmarked about 160 acres of land in Ecotech 6 and 7. The company has promised to invest Rs 1,000 crore in the next five years and another Rs 1,000 crore for their ancillary units," Agarwal said. "The move will generate employment for about 30,000 people," he said. Agarwal said a formal proposal was expected from OPPO soon."Initial meetings have been held, emails exchanged, and allotment rates have been finalised. A meeting was held with the chief secretary in Lucknow last week for working out the rates and modalities .Once we receive the proposal, it will be processed by the UP-empowered committee headed by the principal secretary (IT), Sanjeev Saran , who will define the incentives and benefits to be provided to the company for setting up shop," the CEO said.All formalities are likely to be in place within a month. "Once land is allotted to the company, construction of manufacturing units could be completed in six to nine months. Manufacturing of handheld devices could start a year later," he said.Agarwal said Spice Mobility Limited, another mobile manufacturing company, was also scouting for about 60 acres of land to set up its manufacturing unit . "They are looking at land either in Greater Noida or in the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) area. We have provided the company with land rates of both areas. A meeting is scheduled later this week," Agarwal said."We are also in the process of identifying land banks in both areas so that we have a ready inventory for making quicker allotments," he said.