http://www.news.com.au/national/nsw-act/arrest-warrant-issued-for-abbas-eid-in-relation-to-two-stabbing-incidents-in-sydneys-south/news-story/4057a269580357431c14a2257d13c687
90
9
Video

Image Police seeking wanted man 0:38 Police are seeking public assistance to locate a man wanted by St George detectives for the alleged offences of wound with intent to murder and wound with intent to cause grievous bodily harm.

BEN McCLELLAN The Daily Telegraph

A MAN who allegedly stabbed another man at his front door and was involved in the stabbing of a man during an argument two weeks later is on the run after police issued an arrest warrant for attempted murder.

St George Police are searching for Abbas Eid, 20, who is described as being of Mediterranean/Middle Eastern appearance, 177cm tall with a medium build and dark hair. He walks with a limp.

Warrants for wound with intent to murder and wound with intent to cause grievous bodily harm have been issued over two attacks in April and May in southern Sydney.

On April 22, a 25-year-old man was stabbed multiple times after he got out of bed to investigate sounds at the front door of his Riverwood home.

He suffered a number of upper body wounds as well as to his left arm and was taken to hospital.

On May 5, a 24-year-old man was allegedly attacked in Arncliffe after an argument. He suffered was deep stab wounds to his arms and legs.

Both men have since been released.

Strike Force Atkinson detectives released CCTV footage in June of the May attack in a bid to identify two men allegedly involved and a car the men were travelling in.

The vehicle is believed to be a dark-coloured Nissan Pulsar hatch with P-plates.

The first man, believed to be Eid, was described of Mediterranean/Middle Eastern or Pacific Islander appearance, with a heavy-set large build, 170-175cm tall, with long curly hair and wearing dark clothing.

The second man was described as being of Mediterranean/Middle Eastern appearance, 21-23 years old, with a medium build and 155-160cm tall.

Eid is known to frequent the St George and Bankstown areas and normally resides in Kingsgrove, but police have been unable to find him.

Anyone who knows Abbas Eid’s whereabouts should contact triple-0 immediately, or phone St George detectives via Crime Stoppers on 1800 333 000.