http://www.4-traders.com/news/ISA-Iowa-Soybean-Association-Corn-rootworm-populations-emerge-On-Farm-Network-tracking-levels--22927623/
90
9
Ankeny, Iowa - Across Iowa, corn rootworm beetle populations are emerging, according to an Iowa Soybean Association (ISA) On-Farm Network® led study.

Until the last week of August, ISA will analyze weekly corn rootworm beetle population data gathered from monitoring sticky traps in of more than 180 fields across the state.

'Farmers should be aware of the numbers of adult corn rootworm beetles in their fields, and this project was implemented to provide that information,' said Tristan Mueller, ISA operations manager. 'While pest pressures can vary with management practices, our data shows the beetles are out there and can become a very big problem. Having access to corn rootworm beetle population data can provide insight on the particular pressures faced in each field and point to considerations for management strategy changes, such as rotation to soybeans, changing the trait package or adding a soil applied insecticide.'

Results

The first week of the study found both northern and western corn rootworm all across the state with a few individual fields being above the threshold for concern. On average, the highest number of both northern and western corn rootworm was in northeast Iowa.

The corn rootworm threshold set by Iowa State University (ISU) is two beetles per day or about 14 beetles per week. Counts above this number suggest farmers should change their management practices.

In the second week of the study, there was a consistent increase in numbers of northern corn rootworm occurrence across the state. For western corn rootworm the number of beetles was the same or lower everywhere except north central Iowa where they increased slightly. The highest numbers were still in eastern Iowa.

'Throughout the first couple weeks of data collection, several trends have emerged,' said Mueller. 'The most significant finding is that every field is different. Farmers have different rotations, traits and insecticide programs, so the number of beetles varies drastically even in neighboring fields.'

Methods

The study began the third week of July, when sticky traps were deployed to collect pest counts. Traps will be replaced each week throughout the study. The number of northern and western corn rootworms on each trap will be recorded weekly.

Data analysis will be done across all the survey locations to determine when and where adult beetles are emerging, and to determine the effect of crop rotation on both northern and western corn rootworm, specifically what the northern corn rootworms levels are in first-year corn.

The ISA On-Farm Network partnered with Monsanto, AMVAC and ISU to conduct the statewide survey.

Visit the ISA Research Advance on www.isafarmnet.com for weekly updates on corn rootworm pressures across the state.

-30-

The Iowa Soybean Association (www.iasoybeans.com) develops policies and programs that help Iowa's more than 36,000 soybean farmers expand profit opportunities while promoting environmentally sensitive production using the soybean checkoff and other resources. The association was founded in 1964 and is governed by an elected volunteer board of 21 farmers. It strives to be honest and transparent, fact-based and data driven and committed to environmental stewardship, collaborations and partnerships.

Funded by the soybean checkoff