http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3832550/Sex-diary-kept-married-air-stewardess-wrote-romps-colleagues-centre-legal-battle-husband-finds-tries-serialise-it.html
90
9
A sex diary kept by a married air stewardess who wrote about her romps with colleagues is at the centre of a legal battle - after her husband found it and tried to serialise it.

The 46-year-old kept an intimate diary on a computer about how she had sex with fellow members of staff on Dutch low-cost airline Transavia, which is owned by KLM/Air France.

But the unnamed mother-of-four's secret was discovered by her husband who was left furious when he read the diary - and promptly leaked it to the press in Holland.

A sex diary kept by a married air stewardess who wrote about her romps with colleagues is at the centre of a legal battle - after her husband found it and tried to serialise it (file picture)

It is said to have included details of her sexual activity with other men in the plane, during stop-overs and in hotels.

The husband reportedly said he wanted to make every detail of the diary public and when it was approached for a comment, the airline turned to the courts to try and have the diary blocked.

Judges in the Dutch city of The Hague will decide on the appeal on October 24.

The appeal has apparently been filed by the air hostess herself, backed up by the airline

The airline's lawyers are also filing a legal challenge against the man directly, and they are said to be particularly unhappy that he has been sharing his wife's email correspondence with third parties believed to include other staff.

It was not specified what emails the man had obtained or who he had been sending them to.

The 46-year-old kept an intimate diary on a computer about how she had sex with fellow members of staff on Dutch low-cost airline Transavia, which is owned by KLM/Air France (file picture)

Local media pointed out that not only the reputation of the air hostess, but also the reputation of multiple other staff, apparently many of them married pilots as well as the airline itself, are at stake.

The Dutch airline has also told employees to remain silent if contacted by the media about the story.

A Transavia spokeswoman said: 'We take everything very seriously. An internal research has shown that the safety of passengers was never in doubt.

'Our colleagues consider those emails as unwanted and unacceptable as they harm our interests.'

The biggest Dutch daily, 'Telegraaf', which first reported the sex scandal, has reportedly seen internal emails between Transavia and the Dutch airline inspection authority.

The emails allegedly show that the authority is not interested in commenting on the matter, and refers to it as an internal problem for Transavia. The newspaper reported that people with knowledge about the matter speak about a big cover-up behind the scenes.