http://www.dailypost.co.uk/news/north-wales-news/missing-avril-whitfield-quarry-dive-11786787
90
9
Get daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email

Specialist divers will will be spending a second day searching a lake near Caernarfon today to try and find missing Avril Whitfield.

The 57-year-old has been missing from her home in the town since April 1.

Yesterday police brought in a specialist team to search a former clay pit now filled with water at the former Seiont brickworks quarry on the outskirts of the town.

The last time the lake was searched was in July.

The team was brought in for a second time to search a part of the lake they want to investigate further.

A North Wales Police spokeswoman said: “The search will continue today after nothing was found yesterday.

The specialist team from Bird (British International Search and Rescue Dogs) are made up volunteers.

The area around the former brickworks owned by Hanson has been blocked off by police to allow the search to go on.

Chief Inspector of Operations for Gwynedd and Môn, Richie Green, said the last reported sightings of Avril were near the town’s Tesco supermarket and the Cibyn industrial estate, but they are still keeping an open mind about her disappearance.

Chief Insp Green said: “It’s very easy to get lost around the former brickworks and the lake is very deep. There are lots of trees around the lake, plants and vegetation.”

He said police divers and specialist search and rescue teams, including Sarda and Bird dog teams and RAF and mountain rescuers, have previously helped in the search.

Video Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now Watch this video again Video will play in Share this video Watch Next

Police divers have also used sonar equipment.

He added: “Each team specialise in different expertise. We are happy that we have searched three-quarters of the lake.

“We are not 100% happy about one part of the lake and we would like to search it properly. The Bird searchers used a dog and he sensed that something wasn’t right.”

Chief Insp Green said they have informed Avril’s family, including sister Ann and partner Steve, about their plans.

He added: “The lake is very deep, made of clay and difficult to get to. Visibility is very poor. The Bird searchers and divers are specialists in this kind of work.”