http://www.dailypost.co.uk/news/north-wales-news/avril-whitfield-investigation-missing-caernarfon-11788617
90
9
Get daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email

New photographs have been released by police of the specialist divers who have spent a second day searching a lake in Caernarfon to try and find missing Avril Whitfield.

The 57-year-old has been missing from her home in the town since April 1.

Yesterday police brought in a specialist team to search a former clay pit now filled with water at the former Seiont brickworks quarry on the outskirts of the town.

The last time the lake was searched was in July.

The team was brought in for a second time to search a part of the lake they want to investigate further.

A North Wales Police spokeswoman said: “The search will continue today after nothing was found yesterday.

“The specialist team from Bird (British International Search and Rescue Dogs) are made up volunteers.

“The area around the former brickworks owned by Hanson has been blocked off by police to allow the search to go on.”

Chief Inspector of Operations for Gwynedd and Môn, Richie Green, said the last reported sightings of Avril were near the town’s Tesco supermarket and the Cibyn industrial estate, but they are still keeping an open mind about her disappearance.

He said: “Although its almost five months since Avril went missing we are still very determined to find her and together with our search team colleagues we’d like to bring some peace of mind to her family.

Video Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now Watch this video again Video will play in Share this video Watch Next

“We have maintained regular contact with her family throughout, our investigation remains very much ‘open’ and I’m still eager to hear from anyone who saw Avril after she was last seen on April 1st.

“As the result of potential sightings and further expert search team advice British International Rescue and Search Dogs (BIRD) are this week carrying out a search of a large body of water in the Caernarfon area.”

Avril is described as white, between 5’5-” of slight build with ginger hair worn in a bob.

Searches have been carried out in and around the Caernarfon area with help of Avril’s friends and family, volunteers, coastguard staff and the Underwater Search Team and SARDA (Search and Rescue Dogs Association)

Posters have also been distributed in and around the Caernarfon and Bangor and Llandudno areas and enquiries carried out with hospitals, local shops, cafes and bus companies.

Chief Insp Green said: “It’s very easy to get lost around the former brickworks and the lake is very deep. There are lots of trees around the lake, plants and vegetation.”

Volunteers search for Avril earlier this year

Video Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now Watch this video again Video will play in Share this video Watch Next

He said police divers and specialist search and rescue teams, including RAF and mountain rescuers, have previously helped in the search.

He added: “Each team specialise in different expertise. We are happy that we have searched three-quarters of the lake.

“We are not 100% happy about one part of the lake and we would like to search it properly.”

Anybody with information is asked to contact North Wales Police.