http://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/toronto/firefighter-injured-house-fire-west-end-1.3799734
90
9
A firefighter was seriously injured in a house fire on Tuesday that forced a fire crew that was searching the building to retreat outside.

Toronto Fire Service said they received a call about a fire that broke out in a two-storey home on Dufferin Street near Alma Avenue, north of Queen Street West, shortly after 9 a.m.

The fire is now under control.

Kim McKinnon, spokesperson for Toronto Paramedic Services, said the firefighter was rushed to hospital in critical condition with injuries that are not considered life-threatening. His current condition is not known.

Captain declared a mayday

Matthew Pegg, interim fire chief for Toronto Fire Services, said two residents of the building were treated for smoke inhalation and taken to hospital.

Firefighters on the scene of a house fire on Dufferin Street near Alma Avenue on Oct. 11. A firefighter was overcome by heat and taken to hospital. Two residents of the house suffered smoke inhalation and were treated. (Martin Trainor/CBC)

Pegg said the first fire crew on the scene went inside the house to search and encountered very high heat. One firefighter was overcome by the heat, the captain of the crew declared a "mayday" and the crew went outside.

The firefighter who was overcome was removed from the building and regained consciousness once he was outside, Pegg said.

"My understanding is that the crew encountered a very high level of heat during their search and rescue. Interior search and rescue is a very, very dangerous operation. It's not uncommon for our firefighters to withstand very significant amounts of heat in the course of their duties," he said.

"In this case, there was a very experienced crew and a very experienced captain who recognized that the heat was too high. He made the decision to leave the building and move to the outside."

Update: Firefighter suffered serious but non life-threatening injuries in fire on Dufferin this morning pic.twitter.com/W64p81lodB — @LindaWardCBC

Pegg said the "mayday" call was an excellent one. He said other firefighters are now searching for other people who may still be inside.

Two firefighters talk near a house fire on Dufferin Street on Oct. 11. (Martin Trainor/CBC)

He told CBC News he didn't know yet where the fire started.

Ontario's Fire Marshal Office has been notified and will help with the investigation into the cause of the fire.

Earlier, Toronto police said occupants of the house climbed onto the ledge and were throwing pets out of a window.

Part of Dufferin Street, from Dundas Street West to Queen Street West, is blocked off to traffic.