http://zeenews.india.com/news/tamil-nadu/uk-doctor-examines-jayalalithaa-various-rumours-about-her-health-condition-go-viral_1935588.html
90
9
Chennai: A specialist doctor from the UK has reportedly examined Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa.

Jayalalithaa's supporters are eagerly awaiting an official statement on her health condition from the Apollo Hospitals, where she is currently admitted.

According to reports, British doctor Richard John Beale, who is a Consultant Intensivist at the London Bridge Hospital, examined Jayalalithaa, 68, in Apollo Hospitals yesterday.

Due to the lack of credible and detailed information about Jayalalithaa`s health condition, different kinds of rumours are going around.

Meanwhile, All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) today asserted that its hospitalised party supremo is "healthy".

"Amma (Jayalalithaa) is healthy. She needs rest as per doctors' advice and will return in good health," senior AIADMK leader and former minister P Valaramathi told reporters. She said Jayalalithaa was performing official duties and pointed out that she had even announced the party's candidates for this month's civic polls while being hospitalised.

"Some jealous people are carrying out a wrong campaign to confuse people by spreading rumours" about Jayalalithaa's health, she said.

The Tamil Nadu CM's health condition continues to be the talk of the town or a conversation starter across the cross-section of the society.

According to officials of Apollo Hospitals, a medical bulletin on Jayalalithaa`s condition may be expected on Saturday. There was no bulletin on Friday.

Jayalalithaa was admitted into Apollo Hospitals on September 22 for fever and dehydration.

Subsequently, Apollo Hospitals said she was cured of fever and needed to be in the hospital for observation.

However, party announcements were continued to be made by Jayalalithaa.

On Friday, DMK president and former chief minister M Karunanidhi wished Jayalalithaa speedy recovery and said the state government should put a stop to rumours about her medical condition.

"Due to the keeping of Jayalalithaa`s health condition a closely-guarded secret, some people are spreading baseless rumours about her health condition," Karunanidhi said in a statement here.

There is also no news on leaders of ruling AIADMK`s allies meeting the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister in the hospital, he said.

Karunanidhi said though there were news reports on Union Minister Pon Radhakrishnan visiting Apollo Hospital, there was no report about his meeting her and asking after her health.

The former chief minister said the state government should have at least released a photograph of her in the hospital as she chaired a meeting of state officials on the Cauvery water issue and dictated her speech to be read out at a meeting on the subject in New Delhi.

(With Agency inputs)