http://tribune.com.pk/story/1197612/religious-days-processions-multan-sialkot-end-peacefully/
90
9
Strict securi­ty measur­es impose­d in severa­l distri­cts to ensure safety of mourne­rs

SIALKOT / MULTAN: As many as 82 mourning processions taken out on Muharram 9 concluded peacefully on Tuesday.

Under strict security provided by police and Rangers, the main procession was started from Imam Bargah Mumtazabad, while Ustadwala and Shagirdwala tazias were put on display at Inside Pak Gate and Khooni Burj. The Ustadwala tazia is 200 years old and Shagirdwala is 70 years old.

Similarly, other historic tazias of Multan, including Pir Laal Bukhsh, Kiri Patolian, Allah Bukhshwala and others were also put on display.

According to district administration officials, routes of Muharram 10 processions to be taken out today are to be monitored properly. Similarly, army and Rangers will also be available throughout to deal with any emergency.

Meanwhile, police have declared 59 areas sensitive for Yaum-e-Ashura in Multan. The police would provide a three-layered security cover to processions and majaalis.

Security in other districts

Gujranwala Commissioner Capt (retd) Muhammad Asif and Additional IG/Regional Police Officer Gujranwala Muhammad Tahir visited the routes of Muharram processions in Sialkot, Daska, Sambrial and Pasrur tehsils. They reviewed foolproof security arrangements and asked organisers to strictly follow allowed timings for the processions and majaalis.

Muharram security plan for Sialkot district was discussed during a high-level meeting of senior officials of the law enforcement agencies (LEAs) held in Sialkot DCO office.

The meeting was told that administration of Sialkot was successfully implementing a foolproof security plan to ensure peace, sectarian harmony and law and order in the district. DCO Sialkot told the meeting that CCTV cameras and drone cameras were also monitoring the routes of the processions. He said the Army would be available to help the district administration if needed.

Sialkot DPO Dr Abid Khan said that all routes would be sealed for security purposes in Sialkot, Daska, Sambrial and Pasrur tehsils. He said 2,882 police personnel were performing security duties in the district.

Published in The Express Tribune, October 12th, 2016.

Read full story