http://www.wsj.com/articles/smart-or-lucky-google-can-feast-on-samsungs-misfortune-1476201374
90
9
ENLARGE Samsung Electronics permanently discontinued production of its troubled Galaxy Note 7 smartphone Tuesday. Photo: Bloomberg News

Google and Samsung helped get each other to the top of the smartphone heap. So there is some irony to the idea that Samsung’s pain could now be Google’s gain.

Samsung has long been the world’s most dominant smartphone brand by market share. Google, owned by Alphabet, developed the Android mobile operating system that now powers more than 80% of the smartphones sold in the world, including nearly all of Samsung’s. But the two companies’ competitive interests aren’t always aligned, a fact that will get ever clearer as Google launches a new brand of smartphones just as Samsung’s reputation is getting scorched.

Samsung permanently discontinued production of its Galaxy Note 7 smartphones Tuesday after less than two months on the market. Users reported several instances of their devices overheating and even catching fire. The Note 7 is a key member of Samsung’s Galaxy line of high-end smartphones, and its absence from the market will leave a void in the market for large-screen devices.

Expect others to capitalize on the opportunity. Chinese smartphone maker Huawei is making a big push to gain market share from Samsung with its latest P9 smartphone. Other Chinese smartphone makers like Oppo, Vivo and Xiaomi are also targeting Samsung’s share in that key market. And while Apple’s iPhone 7 Plus requires users to make a complete platform shift, long-term damage to Samsung’s reputation can only help its rival as it deals with the challenges of its own slowing business.

Google though has the luck of good timing on its side, and some cool technology that sets its offering apart from the rivals. The Pixel devices unveiled last week represent a substantial increase in Google’s hardware efforts relative to the Nexus smartphones the company has designed with partners for the last six years.

The Pixel offers the company’s AI-powered Google Assistant at its core. The voice-activated feature will draw on Google’s strength in search, making it potentially more powerful than Apple’s Siri and Amazon.com ’s Alexa. It isn’t clear yet how widely Google will share this technology, which is one benefit of owning the operating system on its phones, a trait it shares with Apple.

Google’s record in hardware has hardly been stellar. The Nexus phones typically reviewed well, but never cracked more than 1% share in the global smartphone market, according to Ramon Llamas of IDC. Google’s attempts to revive Motorola ’s smartphone business following that $12.5 billion acquisition were a disaster.

Get financial insights and commentary on global investing from The Wall Street Journal’s Heard on the Street team. Subscribe to the podcast.

Few are expecting huge numbers from Google’s latest effort. Gene Munster of Piper Jaffray estimates the company will build between 5 million and 10 million Pixel smartphones next year. But that could also leave room for Google to surprise to the upside, especially with a major rival device now pulled from the market.

Arguing against the Nexus is the dismal record of any recent non-Chinese entrant into the smartphone market. Amazon’s Fire Phone and Microsoft ’s huge investment in Nokia were both costly failures.

Another problem is that the Pixel won’t start shipping until later this month, which is too late for anyone with a fried Galaxy. And most of the large-screen versions are already back-ordered. Google’s timing is good but not perfect.

Write to Dan Gallagher at dan.gallagher@wsj.com