http://indianexpress.com/article/education/upsc-civil-services-2016-check-the-sample-paper-for-mains-exam/
90
9
UPSC Civil Services 2016: Union Public Service Commission will conduct the Civil Services mains exam on December 3. The result of the prelims is already out and successful candidates must be busy preparing for the mains exam.

As per the toppers, regular mock tests help in preparation of the exam. Therefore, check this sample test paper which will help sharpen your writing skills:

Answer the questions in not more than 250 words each. The contents of the answer are more important than its length. All questions carry equal marks. 12½ × 20 = 250

1) “Indian constitution is a work of legislative evolution of more than two centuries which Britishers did while ruling India”, critically analyse. 12½

2) “Governor is the rubber stamp which exercises its powers as is mandated by the central government”, discuss. 12½

3) Central government has a moral and ethical responsibility to adhere to the federal principles which are enshrined in the constitution of India. Keeping this statement in mind analyze the challenges which federal structure faces and suggest the remedies to overcome them. 12½

4) “Media is the fourth pillar of the democracy and slowly civil society is becoming the fifth pillar of the same democracy”, comment giving suitable examples from India civil society movement. 12½

5) “NGOs and Self Help Groups (SHGs) are backbone of civil society movement in India, they need to be strengthen to bolster the essence of democratic element in Indian governance”, evaluate. 12½

6) Critically examine the poverty estimates of India given by various agencies. 12½

7) Write a critical note on the Greece financial crises and explain its ramifications for India. 12½

8) Explain the social and economic significance of Indian diaspora around the world for India. 12½

9) What are the economic consequences of growing tensions across border between India and Pakistan? How SAARC and other regional groups are helping in reducing it? 12½

10) Is NAM loosing relevance in the contemporary world? If yes, why? 12½

11) What are the various economic prospects of India-Central Asia cooperation? 12½

12) What is SCO? What is its relevance for India? 12½

13) “Indian ocean diplomacy has attained a new significance because of growing economic explorations across the Indian ocean”, comment. 12½

14) What is Niti Aayog? How it is different from Planning Commission? 12½

15) “Is creating new institution a solution to eliminate the structural challenges of existing institution”, analyze this statement using examples from Indian administration. 12½

16) What is doctrine of basic structure? Explain its evolution in Indian judiciary. 12½

17) “Fundamental rights and fundamental duties are complimentary to each other”, evaluate. 12½

18) Write short note on the following in not more than 50 words:

(a) National Commission for Backward Classes

(b) National Commission for Scheduled Castes

(c) Directive Principles of State Policy

(d) Election commission of India 12½

19) Critically examine the recent debate over the land acquisition bill. Give your opinion on it. 12½

20) Write a note on India-Sri Lanka bilateral relations after the end of LTTE movement in Sri Lanka. 12½

— sample paper by Chanakya Academy

For more sample papers, click here

© The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd