http://www.whio.com/news/local/springfield-husband-wife-reunite-haiti-after-hurricane-matthew/IYfpZtjhnXiYoaGCaI8enM/
90
9
Updated: Tuesday, October 11, 2016 @ 9:04 PM

Published: Tuesday, October 11, 2016 @ 6:02 PM

By: Katherine Collins - Staff Writer

UPDATE @ 9 p.m. (Oct. 10): Jacob and Chelsey Crabtree, reunited in Haiti after she and her family members were stranded by Hurricane Matthew, are back to doing mission work to help those devastated by the monster storm.

Jacob, who spoke with News Center 7’s Natalie Jovonovich by phone Monday afternoon, said he and his brother-in-law flew to Port au Prince and then to Jeremie — where they missed Chelsey and family by about 45 minutes.

“We were overjoyed that they had left and that they were alive,” Jacob said.

Since he was there in Jeremie and buoyed by the good news about his wife and her family, he remained there and began helping storm victims.

Once he and Chelsey reunited in Port au Prince, they picked up supplies and he went back into Jeremie to help. Roads remain impassable, Homes have been flattened. Trees, ripped from their roots, are scattered everywhere.

“It was total devastation,” Jacob said. “It looks like an atomic bomb went off, literally. I’ve never seen anything like it.”

Chelsey, who hid in a concrete structure with her mother, sister and cousin, said she could see trees snapping and windows being blown out.

“We were actually hiding underneath a mattress because we could feel the cement walls vibrating, and we thought the cement walls were literally going to blow apart,” she said. “We were just waiting for the building to collapse.”

The walls remained intact. But anything that wasn’t made of cement was destroyed.

“In the moment, God gives you strength, and you pray,” she said. “And this is now my second experience, and both times I’ve definitely leaned on Him and read Scripture and it gave me peace.”

Once the winds and rain settled down, Chelsey said she tried to find a phone to call her husband. She kept the faith that her spouse would come to get her.

“I knew how Jake felt after the earthquake and it’s hard to be on the other end,” she said. “But it’s difficult to be the one at home watching it, so I kept thinking I would see him propelling down a rope from a helicopter, so actually several times I thought, ‘I’m sure my husband is trying to reach me.’ “

“I knew that was happening, I just kind of had a peace about me.”

Jacob went into Jeremie the same time she was getting out. They made the decision for him to stay and help while she remained in Port au Prince a while, where she “gave my brain and my heart and my family some rest.”

Jacob and Chelsey said their plan is to return to the United States on Tuesday, then try to raise funds to return to Haiti as soon as they can.

“If we can keep the focus on them… their needs are going to be great,” Chelsey said.

“In America, we have so many resources and here they just don’t and that’s why we come, because they don’t have what they need. There’s no one to step in and give them the aid. If we don’t go ourselves, they don’t get it.”

UPDATE @ 9:45 p.m. (Oct. 6): Jacob Crabtree, the Springfield man who hasn’t heard from his wife in Haiti for nearly two days, boarded a flight out of Columbus this morning headed for the town of Jeremie.

The town west of the capital of Port-Au-Prince was in the eye of Hurricane Matthew. His wife Chelsey and her four family members were in the town as well, on a mission trip.

She has been this way before. Last time, it was an earthquake that left her stranded. This time, it’s the hurricane that stopped her escape from the island.

“Obviously we’re worried, still no word from there,” Jacob Crabtree told News Center 7’s Natalie Jovonovich in a phone call Thursday afternoon.

Tuesday, when the storm made landfall on southwestern Haiti, a NASA satellite captured the storm’s swirling clouds blanketing Haiti, the Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico and much of eastern Cuba. It was a Cat 4 (sustained winds of 130 mph to 156 mph), the strongest to hit that nation in more than 50 years, NASA officials said.

Crabtree said he’ll not purchase a return ticket and depending on what he finds, he may stay to help with survivors and clean up.

“Just kind of leaving it open-ended, if they need help down there and there’s things I could do, I’ll stay, you know if I need to get them home, then I’ll get them home,” he said.

He admits he’s afraid, but he’s leaning on his faith in God.

“That’s what keeps us going back all the time you know? We’re all commanded to give back and to care for and there’s always those risks, but you know God didn’t command us to go to the safe places.”

UPDATE @ 10:15 p.m. (Oct. 5): A Springfield man says he plans to get on a plane Thursday headed for Haiti to find his wife.

Jacob Crabtree told News Center 7’s James Brown that Chelsey Crabtree’s last text messages to him were that the storm is powerful and that “I didn’t expect this noise.”

The woman and her four family members are on a mission trip in a remote part of the country.

In 2010, she was stuck on the island when an earthquake hit. Then, it took four days for her to make contact with her family.

EARLIER (Oct. 5)

A Springfield resident has been stopped from returning home from Haiti due to Hurricane Matthew.

Chelsey Crabtree is in Haiti with family members on a mission trip, her husband Jacob Crabtree said. She had been there for about a week, he said, before Hurricane Matthew hit Tuesday and early Wednesday morning.

RELATED: Hurricane Matthew bearing down on Bahamas, sights set on Florida

The family makes several visits to Haiti each year, he said, to help out at orphanages and drill water wells for their nonprofit, Living Water for Haiti.

Jacob Crabtree, who’s in Springfield now, was texting with his wife, he said, until about 4 a.m. Wednesday when he lost contact. She was telling him the storm’s strength was increasing, he said.

It may be multiple days before he can reach her again, he said. His support system here in Springfield has been helpful, he said, but he is worried for his wife and her family.