http://indianexpress.com/article/india/india-news-india/islamic-state-terrorist-mohammed-masiuddin-bangla-police-2979559/
90
9
A THREE-MEMBER team of Bangladesh Police’s Rapid Action Battalion (RAB) on Tuesday interrogated suspected terrorist Mohammed Masiuddin, who was arrested by the NIA last month for his link to terror groups such as Islamic State (IS) and Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB).

The team, which had reached Kolkata on Monday night, interrogated Masiuddin at the National Investigation Agency (NIA) office for few hours in Salt Lake on Tuesday. According to a top NIA officer, the Bangladesh Police team was looking into Masiuddin’s role in fake currency being smuggled into India through Bangladesh.

Masiuddin, who was produced in a city court on Tuesday, was sent to NIA custody for two days.

“India and Bangladesh have a standard operating procedure to tackle the fake currency issue. These officers from Bangladesh have come to look into Masiuddin’s role in the fake currency issue and other aspects,” an officer said over phone from New Delhi.

Another source said the officers were looking into Masiuddin alias Abu al-Musa’s link to Tamim Ahmed Chowdhury, the mastermind behind the recent terror attack on a restaurant in Dhaka’s Gulshan area. Tamim is also an alleged recruiter of IS agents in India, specially in the Northeast.

Sources said the officers were also probing Masiuddin’s link to Mohammad Suleiman, an important member of the JMB module in Bangladesh, who had played a crucial role in the terror attack.

“Suleiman is believed to have played a crucial role in the Dhaka terror attack… And after grilling Masiuddin it was found that he was quite close to Suleiman. So, the officers have arrived here to know more about his links with Suleiman,” an officer said. Masiuddin was close to the former IS chief in the country, Shafi Armar, and had met Suleiman at an event in Malda four months ago, he added.

Sources said the team is likely to interrogate Masiuddin again on Wednesday.

In a joint raid by the NIA and West Bengal CID, Masiuddin was arrested from Viswabharati Fast Passenger train at Burdwan station last month.

During interrogation by the state CID, NIA and the IB, Masiuddin had revealed his connection to top leaders of at least two terror groups and admitted that he had been assigned to spread their tentacles in Bengal and other places in the eastern part of the country.

A resident of Labhpur in Birbhum district, CID sleuths had said Masiuddin, who was staying in Tamil Nadu’s Tiruppur with his family and two children, had visited West Bengal this July after almost six years. His phone records showed that he had communicated several times with people from Syria, Iraq and Bangladesh. Masiuddin was using a mobile application to keep in touch with top leaders of terror groups in the three countries, CID sleuths had said.

Two of his accomplices Kallu Sheikh and Amin Sheikh were also arrested by the investigating agencies.