http://indianexpress.com/article/cities/pune/pune-99-vehicles-on-e-way-violate-speed-limit-says-study-3077588/
90
9
The Mumbai-Pune E-way is prone to accidents, especially during monsoons. The Mumbai-Pune E-way is prone to accidents, especially during monsoons.

A WHOPPING 99 per cent of vehicles had violated the 80 kilometre per hour speed limit and more than seven per cent of the vehicles had crossed the 120-kilometre per hour mark in one of the three Expressway lanes in the Mumbai-Pune corridor, a recent study has found. A team of independent researchers conducted a study in the first week of September in which closed circuit television cameras equipped with speed detection and Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) were used and vehicles in the lane were observed.

Significantly, the government, till now, has taken no action on any of the suggestions recommended by the study team. After the accident, which saw a crash between a bus and two cars at Shedung on the Expressway killing 17 people in the first week of June this year, the government had announced that an Intelligent Traffic Management System (ITMS) will be put in place on the Expressway. However, no such system has been put in place by the state government and the plan seems to be in a state of limbo, according to sources in the home ministry.

The recent study on speed limits was conducted by Tanmay Pendse, who lost his brother Akshay Pendse, a Marathi film and theatre actor, and nephew Pratyush in an Expressway accident in 2012, along with another researcher Kaustubh Vartak, in collaboration with the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) and the State Highway Police.

Speaking to The Indian Express, Tanmay said, “Between 8 pm on September 6 and 5 pm on September 7, we monitored the speed of 4,224 vehicles. Out of them, 4,185— more than 99 per cent vehicles violated the speed limit. As many as 1,959, which is more than 46 per cent, were above 100 kmph, 313 were above 120 kmph, 37 were above 140 kmph and five were above the speed of 160 kmph. One of the luxury cars even reached the speed 174 kmph. These figures not only show carelessness on the part of the driver but also a stark absence of the punitive mechanism for defaulters. Of the 4,224 vehicles that were observed, 60 per cent were in the wrong lane. These figures show why we have such an alarming death rate on the Expressway.”

As per the government figures, in the 15 years since the Expressway was built, the 93 kilometre patch has seen more than 14,500 accidents and more than 1,450 deaths. Pendse added, “Since the accident in Shedung killed 17 people, the government announced ITMS but nothing concrete has happened in this regard. The highway police continue to regulate and take action against the defaulters but it is in the traditional way. Unless we implement advanced technological system and make defaulters pay heavily, the speed limit violations and unfortunate loss of precious lives will continue.”

A senior official from the Home Ministry confirmed, on condition of anonymity, the file about the ITMS is pending at the office of chief minister, who also holds the charge of Home Ministry. Pendse said, “In 2016 alone, in over 450 accidents, over 60 people have lost their lives on the Expressway. The government really needs to take up this issue on priority basis and implement the ITMS.”