http://www.express.co.uk/life-style/health/719454/Exercise-danger-risk-heart-attack-health
90
9
GETTY Being very upset or angry more than doubles the risk of a heart attack within an hour

Being very upset or angry more than doubles the risk of a heart attack within an hour, while heavy physical exertion does the same, a worldwide study suggested. But combining the two - such as using extreme exercise as a way of calming down - increases the risk even further. Experts said the study - the biggest of its kind - provides evidence of a "crucial link" between mind and body.

The new research, published in the American Heart Association's journal Circulation, suggested a doubling of the risk association between anger or emotional upset, or physical exertion, and the onset of first heart attack symptoms within one hour. The association was much stronger - just over triple the risk for patients who said they had been angry or emotionally upset while also engaging in heavy physical exertion.

GETTY Excess anger, under the wrong conditions, can cause a life-threatening heart attack

Dr Andrew Smyth, lead author of the study from the Population Health Research Institute at McMaster University in Canada, said extreme emotional and physical triggers are thought to have similar effects on the body. He added: "Both can raise blood pressure and heart rate, changing the flow of blood through blood vessels and reducing blood supply to the heart. "This is particularly important in blood vessels already narrowed by plaque, which could block the flow of blood leading to a heart attack.

GETTY People who are at risk for a heart attack would do best to avoid extreme emotional situations

"Regular physical activity has many health benefits, including the prevention of heart disease, so we want that to continue. "However, we would recommend that a person who is angry or upset who wants to exercise to blow off steam not go beyond their normal routine to extremes of activity."

Researchers analysed information from 12,461 patients from 52 countries with an average age 58. They had completed a questionnaire about the kind of "triggers" they experienced in the hour before they had a heart attack. The results showed that 14% (1,650 people) had engaged in physical activity while 14% (1,752 people) were angry or emotionally upset. The experts took into account the effect of other risk factors such as age, smoking, obesity, high blood pressure and other health problems.

GETTY Avoid extreme exercise following a heated argument