http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/navy-practices-killing-north-korean-9025564
91
9
Kim Jong-Un could be 'taken out' by the allies (file picture)

The US Navy and Air Force are practising killing the North Korean leadership and taking out nuclear weapons as part of joint drills with the South.

The exercises in the Sea of Japan involve the giant US aircraft carrier the USS Ronald Reagan together with it's extended carrier group.

The six days of 'Invincible Spirit' drills - which started on Monday will involve ship-to-ground and submarine-to-ground cruise missile exercises, the South Korean defence ministry has said.

The USS Ronald Reagan will a number of other warships and submarines for the naval exercises.

Reuters U.S. aircraft carrier USS Ronald Reagan arrives at a South Korean naval base in Busan

The drills will involve plans to take out North Korean leaders in the event of a strike by Pyongyang a defence ministry official told the Yonhap news agency.

It comes after new satellite images from North Korea suggest Kim Jong-un could be preparing yet another nuclear test.

An increase in activity at the country's known test site has been detected, according to 38 North, a US-based monitoring company.

EPA/AIRBUS / 38 NORTH / HANDOUT New satellite images suggest an increase in activity at North Korea's nuclear test site

The group, run by Johns Hopkins University's School of Advanced International Studies, said there was activity at all three tunnel complexes at the Punggye-ri site involving a large vehicle and personnel.

"One possible reason for this activity is to collect data on the September 9 test although other purposes cannot be ruled out, such as sealing the portal or other preparations related to a new test," the group said, referring to the last nuclear test.

AFP/Getty Images Kim Jong-un is believed to be ready for war

The North is believed to be ready for another nuclear test at any time.

There has been speculation it could mark the October 10 anniversary of the founding of its Workers' Party with another underground detonation.

North Korea conducted its first nuclear test in 2006 and has since defied UN sanctions and rejected international talks to press ahead with the development of the weapons and missiles to carry them, which it says it needs for its defence.

AFP/Getty Images The ground jet test of a new type high-power engine of a carrier rocket for the geo-stationary satellite

In January, it conducted its fourth nuclear test and last month its fifth and biggest, on the anniversary of the nation's founding.

The United States and South Korea are pushing for tighter sanctions against North Korea by closing loopholes left in a UN Security Council resolution in March.

South Korea's Unification Ministry spokesman Jeong Joon-hee told a briefing there were no particular indication of a plan for a nuclear test timed to coincide with the October 10 anniversary.

38 North/Handout via Reuters The images could suggest a new test or data gathering from a previous one

South Korea's Yonhap news agency reported that there was activity at the North's rocket launch station near the west coast that could be preparations for a long-range missile launch.

Last month, the North said it had successfully conducted a ground test of a new rocket engine that would be used to launch satellites.

South Korea said the engine could be used for a long-range missile.

North Korea last month fired three missiles that flew about 1,000 km (600 miles).

KCNA via REUTERS Kim Jong-un has defied UN sanctions to continue to test nuclear weapons

In August, it tested a submarine-launched ballistic missile that international experts said showed considerable progress.

Japan said the possibility of further "provocative action" by North Korea could not be ruled out.

"The government is taking all possible measures in gathering information, exercising vigilance and taking surveillance activities to be able to respond to any situations," Japan's Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga told a news conference.