https://www.yahoo.com/tech/baidu-bidu-boosts-user-security-150303996.html
90
9
China’s biggest search engine Baidu, Inc. BIDU yesterday launched its new privacy app 'DU Caller' that will utilize Apple's new CallKit on iOS 10.

Aimed at the U.S. and India markets, the new app will have a number of security features to help users prevent identity theft.

Cailin Tang, Director of International Products at Baidu's Global Business Unit stated, “DU Caller will fully leverage Apple's new CallKit on iOS 10 to give users much more transparency and control over their phones."

Features Galore

The app will automatically recognize unknown numbers before they are picked up and help users avoid telemarketers and scammers. It will also enable users customize spam tolerance and block unwanted callers.

Users can also make calls directly from the app. Android users will get an added facility to record and playback calls.

BAIDU INC Price

BAIDU INC Price | BAIDU INC Quote

Our Take

The launch makes sense for Baidu as smartphones are increasingly being used as a payment mode, thereby necessitating enhanced security and privacy. Even Baidu has its own payment app known as Baidu Wallet. The app offers payment, money transfer and wealth management services.

About Baidu

Beijing-based Baidu is a Chinese-language Internet search provider. The company conducts its operations principally through Baidu Online Network Technology Co., Ltd., a network of third-party websites and software applications.

Further, the company offers Japanese search services, including web search, image search, video search, and blog search capabilities. It also offers online marketing services to its customers directly and through other distribution networks.

Zacks Rank and Stocks to Consider

Currently Baidu is a Zacks Rank #4 (Sell) company. Some better-ranked stocks include Facebook, Inc. FB, LinkedIn Corporation LNKD and Yirendai Ltd. YRD, each sporting a Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy). You can see the complete list of today’s Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) stocks here.

Interested in IPOs? Check out the special edition of Zacks Friday Finish Line below, where Editor Maddy Johnson and Content Writer Ryan McQueeney interview Kathleen Smith of Renaissance Capital about the IPO market in 2016 (see part two here).

Confidential from Zacks

Beyond this Analyst Blog, would you like to see Zacks' best recommendations that are not available to the public? Our Executive VP, Steve Reitmeister, knows when key trades are about to be triggered and which of our experts has the hottest hand. Click to see them now>>



Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report



BAIDU INC (BIDU): Free Stock Analysis Report



FACEBOOK INC-A (FB): Free Stock Analysis Report



LINKEDIN CORP-A (LNKD): Free Stock Analysis Report



YIRENDAI LTD (YRD): Free Stock Analysis Report



To read this article on Zacks.com click here.



Zacks Investment Research