http://www.news.com.au/national/queensland/peter-fosters-alleged-associate-thomas-cain-claims-to-be-owner-of-racehorse-azkadellia/news-story/7a1737871604fcade01221f72676dd4f
90
9
David Murray The Courier-Mail

AN ALLEGED associate of conman Peter Foster is claiming to be the true owner of racehorse Azkadellia.

Lawyers for Thomas Cain claimed in a legal letter yesterday that he owned the prized mare, as well as racehorses Loveable Rogue, Hart and Mr Simples.

All four horses were stood down from racing this week pending an investigation into whether they were secretly owned by Foster.

However, it can be revealed that Racing Victoria was yesterday told Mr Cain was believed to also be known as Matthew Thomas Reed, a convicted drug importer.

Reed was jailed for 12 years in 2007 after trying to bring $211 million of cocaine and ecstasy into Queensland from Canada.

The drugs were hidden inside computer monitors, and at the time it was the largest known importation of cocaine in the state.

Court and company records obtained by The Courier-Mail list both Mr Cain and Mr Reed as having the same birth date and being from Canada.

Mr Cain has taken over from Foster’s niece as a director of a series of companies.

His Gold Coast lawyer, Jeff Horsey, wrote to private investigator Ken Gamble and his lawyers claiming ownership of the suspended horses.

“We represent Mr Thomas Cain, who has become aware of an article in The Courier-Mail newspaper in which your client, Mr Gamble, states that he intends to seek an injunction to restrain our client’s horses, which are alleged to in fact belong to Mr Peter Foster,” Mr Horsey wrote.

“Please be advised that our client strenuously denies this allegation and maintains that he is the owner of the horses.”

Mr Gamble gave a copy of the letter to Racing Victoria and told stewards Mr Cain was also known as Matthew Reed before being convicted of drug trafficking.

“He served in prison with Foster,” Mr Gamble wrote to Racing Victoria.

Mr Horsey did not return calls and Racing Victoria chief steward Terry Bailey declined to comment.

Victorian trainer Ciaron Maher yesterday said he was “shocked and terribly disappointed” by the stewards’ investigation.

Maher said his racing manager, Ben Connolly – the registered owner of the four horses – had taken a leave of absence until ­inquiries were completed.

Azkadellia was favourite in this year’s Stradbroke Handicap and has won more than $1.5 million.