http://classic.iol.co.za/news/crime-courts/teen-killed-trying-to-prevent-friend-being-robbed-1.2083851
90
9
File photo

Cape Town - Four people have been arrested after a gang of knife-wielding suspects killed Khayelitsha teenager Nadia Moyeni.

She was stabbed several times when she tried to prevent her friend from being robbed.

The 17-year-old’s aunt, Nothemba Moyeni, said that Nadia was allegedly raped by the suspects before she was murdered.

Her body was found a stone’s throw from her home in Kuyasa, Khayelitsha.

She had had dreams of one day becoming a nurse. “We had big expectations for her and her life was cut short. She loved studying a lot. This has left the entire family grief-stricken.”

Moyeni said Nadia had been hesitant when her friend had asked her to go out with them on Saturday night. The Grade 11 pupil’s family was called to the scene at about 1am on Sunday.

“She liked staying indoors, but that afternoon I guess she wanted to do something different and decided to go out.”

Police say while they have arrested four suspects in connection with Nadia’s murder, their investigation continued.

Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said: “A 17-year-old woman was murdered in 59 Block Kuyasa. She was stabbed and died in hospital.

“Police have arrested four suspects in connection with the murder. Two of the suspects are 18 years and two are 19 years.

“They were arrested on three charges of murder, rape and robbery and are expected to appear in the Khayelitsha Magistrate’s Court as soon as they are charged.”

* Police have launched an investigation following the discovery of a woman’s body in a shack in Site C, Khayelitsha, yesterday.

“Khayelitsha (police) members were called out at 2pm to a scene in DT Block in Site C, where they found the body of a woman lying dead inside her shack.

“The body already started to decompose. A post-mortem will be conducted to determine cause of death,” said Van Wyk.

Anyone with information is requested to contact Crime Stop on 08600 10111 or SMS Crime Line on 32211.

Cape Times

IOL News on Facebook

IOL on Twitter

Get our free IOL newsletters - subscribe here...