http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3831833/Greyhound-trainer-charged-live-baiting-police-seize-phone-domestic-violence-investigation.html
90
9
A greyhound trainer charged with animal cruelty has denied live-baiting his dogs, claiming instead he was training them with a 'very life-like' felt rabbit.

Chad Joseph Achurch, 27, was on Monday charged with two counts of torturing and beating an animal to death, aggravated animal cruelty and using an animal for training.

Police allege they found videos on his mobile phone which showed him torturing a live rabbit as bait for his greyhounds, and photos of a rabbit covered in blood with bones sticking out of it.

Scroll down for video

A Sydney greyhound trainer facing animal cruelty charges has been denied bail

Chad Joseph Achurch, 27, was on Monday charged with two counts of torturing and beating an animal to death

Achurch's lawyer Mark Rumore told Liverpool Local Court on Tuesday the mobile phone evidence was inadmissible in court because it was taken during Achurch's voluntary visit to a police station relating to an AVO on September 28.

Achurch, a registered greyhound trainer and racer, handed over his phone to police to prove that he had not breached an apprehended violence order, Mr Rumore said.

The police took his phone and downloaded all of its contents, which is when they found the evidence, he said.

Police allege the animal being tortured was a live rabbit being used as bait for the greyhounds, the court heard.

Mr Rumore said his client 'totally denied' using a live rabbit, and that he had used a 'very life-like' rabbit called a 'lure' on a black rope.

'It emits the sounds and smells of a rabbit and the dogs will attack it ferociously,' Mr Rumore said.

Achurch, a registered greyhound trainer and racer, had reported to his local police station on an unrelated matter when police allegedly found photos and videos on his phone

Magistrate Darryl Pearce said the arguments against Achurch's offences did not carry much weight and the case against him was strong

Achurch also denied any presence of 'blood and bones', which police allege is part of the evidence on his phone.

Achurch has not had his dogs taken by the RSPCA, nor has he been disciplined by the state's greyhound racing authority which gave him approval to race dogs about a year ago, Mr Rumore said.

However, the prosecution submitted the charges against Achurch were serious and he ought to have known not to get involved in the industry given recent media coverage about the NSW government's opposition to it.

Magistrate Darryl Pearce said Mr Rumore's arguments did not carry much weight and the case against Achurch was strong.

'If convicted of the offence, I am of the view that he's very likely to serve a term of imprisonment,' the magistrate said.