http://www.philstar.com/cebu-news/2016/08/14/1613368/cebu-city-jail-and-cpdrc-search-yields-shabu-p4.6m
90
9
CEBU, Philippines - At least P240,000 worth of shabu and P4.6 million cash were recovered by operatives of the Police Regional Office-7, Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency-7, Special Weapons and Tactics team, Regional Public Safety Battalion-7, and the Philippine Coast Guard's K-9 Unit in a joint search operation inside the Cebu City Jail, yesterday dawn.

PRO-7 director, Chief Superintendent Noli Taliño said prior to the operation they received information that likened the city jail to a "tiangge" where the sale and use of shabu takes place.

With that information, he said they coordinated with different units to search the jail.

The operation started at past 1 a.m. and ended at 6 a.m. Taliño said the operation was conducted early morning so inmates would be caught off-guard and not be able to hide whatever contraband they had.

Evidence recovered included shabu, drug paraphernalia, bladed weapons, cellular phones, cash, nubain and other contraband inside the city jail.

Regional Director Yogi Filemon Ruiz of PDEA-7 said lax of security was the reason why drugs was easily smuggled in. He did not set aside the possibility of connivance between the jail guards and inmates because of the amount of shabu seized.

Freeman ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch:

He said during the search, the operatives were able to get 48 transparent sachets of suspected shabu, weighing 70 grams estimated at P240,000 from city jail inmates Mark Entece, Marlon Ferolino, and Jerome Miñoza.

A complaint for possession or dangerous drugs will be filed against the three.

Information triggers search

The information that led to the search came from a man who had just been released from jail for possession of drug paraphernalia.

He compared the Cebu City Jail to a drug den.

"Dugta na ang shabu didto, grabe kadaghan mora'g tiangge…makapalit ka'g shabu bato-bato, ang gikan sa laya mudalaw didto manuyop," he said, adding they can even inject nubain because they can buy syringes in the jail.

Aside from illegal drugs, he said the inmates have laptops, flatscreen televisions, high-end cellular phones, and other gadgets.

The informant said he does not know where the shabu came from but he allegedly heard from the "mayores" (inmate leaders) that transactions were made via phone.

"Manawag nga 'o ayaw sa karon ipasulod ugma na kay di si pare ang duty'," he said, adding smuggling shabu inside the facility would depend on the jail guard on duty since some are being paid to look the other way.

The informant said he knows where to buy shabu in the city jail because he is a drug user. On the other hand, drug paraphernalia is free inside the facility.

He further said during visiting hours, the city jail is sometimes fully packed because some of the visitors bring shabu so they can use them there.

When asked what pushed him to reveal the alleged illegal activities inside the jail, he said he wanted to change and also stop the illegal activities inside the jail.

Calub faces relief

Jail Chief Superintendent Allan Iral, regional director of Bureau of Jail Management and Penology said he will relieve jail warden Johnson Calub while he is under investigation considering of the volume of evidence recovered.

He added the visitation rights of inmates will be suspended temporarily after the incident. Since Calub assumed office last December 2015, the Cebu City jail was placed under inspection three times already, including yesterday.

Iral, however, admitted that because of the volume of visitors it is possible they are able to sneak in shabu. He also said the jail is undermanned. The Cebu City Jail has a capacity of 600 inmates but there are now over 3,089 inmates but only over 100 jail personnel.

He said the investigation will include the jail guards. However, the guards will not be relieved unless inmates specifically point to them as involved in smuggling illegal drugs.

Calub said he was thankful for the operation. He said after he assumed office in December, he was able to minimize the smuggling of illegal drugs in the jail, in fact they filed several complaints against visitors caught in possession of shabu.

He said he is willing to be relieved while under investigation as he has nothing to hide because he is performing his job well.

Calub also said the money recovered from the inmates was money from their cooperatives. He said they allowed the inmates to manage the canteen as part of their livelihood. The money could have reached millions, he said, because the inmates still have not bought supplies for the canteen.

If the inmates need hospitalization or medicines, the amount needed for these will also be taken from the proceeds of their business.

Calub said during visiting hours they have 500 to 700 visitors on Tuesdays and Thursdays and more than 1,000 during Saturdays and Sundays.

Deputy regional director for operations, Senior Superintendent Rey Lyndon Lawas said they deployed 307 police personnel in the city jail, 35 personnel from the PDEA, 20 from BJMP and three K-9 dogs.

Just nearby, a search was also being conducted at the Cebu Provincial Detention and Rehabilitation Center.

Cebu Provincial Police Office director, Senior Superintendent Jose Macanas, who headed the search at the CPDRC, said they indivi-dually searched the cells and found improvised weapons, several sachets of shabu, drugs paraphernalia, and gadgets.

He noticed there were few guards at the CPDRC which he thinks is one of reason why shabu and weapons are smuggled into the jail.

Lawas said they were able to recover P61,000 cash and they are still waiting for the laboratory result of the shabu as to its weigh.

Shock

Even as he commended the agencies that conducted the operation yesterday morning, Vice Mayor Edgardo Labella said he was still "shocked and surprised" by the confiscated items.

Labella, who used to be the chairman of Police Coordinating and Advisory Council, urged city jail officials especially Calub to report how the items were sneaked into the jail.

"Considering the number and volume of confiscated items, they should submit an explanation. We will ask the city warden a report or explanation on the presence of those items. It should be addressed to the mayor and copy furnished to all members of the City Council including the vice mayor," he said.

When asked if he wants the jail officials relieved, Labella said he wants the explanation first.

Labella said he will request Mayor Tomas Osmeña to allow PCAC to reconvene. He said PCAC has not been convened for the past five months or so due to the past election and the suspension of several city officials.

Labella said PCAC, which is composed of several agencies such as Cebu City Police Office, Bureau of Jail Management and Penology, National Bureau of Investigation, National Police Commission, among others, is helpful to the city's peace and order program and jail management.

However, Labella said the council cannot convene for now because of the order of Osmeña to hold in abeyance all meetings of special bodies as the mayor evaluates what special bodies to abolish because of duplication of functions.

Meanwhile, Cebu Governor Hilario Davide III said their coordination with the police in conducting the operation in CPDRC shows how serious the Capitol is in the fight against illegal drugs.

"Dugay ko 'nang gimando nga puhagon ang drogas dinha. Kining mga nakuha nga mga drogas lakip sa ubang gamit ug mga kontrabando, gapakita sa atong ka seryoso pagpuhag sa tanang binuang diha sa sulod. Ug dili lang kutob karon, kay ako ning ipadayon hangtod maundang na ang palusot dinha," Davide said.

Davide visited the inmates in CPDRC last Friday before the operation, to personally tell prisoners that he will not yet lift the suspension of visitation rights in the jail.

CPDRC jail warden Romeo Manansala said he already talked to the governor last Friday and Davide asked him why there is still contraband in CPDRC.

"Ni-explain ko sa akong side, nga naa g'yud mga tawo diri nga matintal og kwarta," Manansala said.

Manansala said he is having trouble figuring out how the inmates keep smuggling items in. He added he is ready to be relieved from his post if the next operation still yields contraband.

"Mao na na ang panahon nga tingali magparelibo na ko ni Gov oy, andam ko parelibo, bisan gamay ra ang makuha, discretion na ni Gov. Dili na g'yud madala… Magparelibo na ko, wala na koy nawong i-atubang ni Gov ana," Manansala said.

After the raid, CPDRC conducted a command conference with all the jail guards. Manansala warned them to stop conniving with inmates in bringing contraband inside the jail facility. Those who will be caught will be recommended for dismissal from service.

"Basta kontrabando, i-recommend nato kang gov nga dismiss. Kung regular moagi na og proseso pero atong pahamtangan og preventive suspension," he said. —with Jean Marvette A. Demecillo and Le Phyllis F. Antojado/BRP (FREEMAN)