http://www.news.com.au/finance/real-estate/sydney-nsw/tony-fleming-28-purchased-13-properties-while-working-for-a-pizza-franchise-in-western-sydney/news-story/641608d31ac083199e59ab1b289b3451
90
9
Aidan Devine News Corp Australia Network

A FORMER pizza deliveryman has become an unlikely real estate tycoon after buying 13 properties and “semi-retiring” at just 28 to live off his rental income.

Western Sydney resident Tony Fleming said he decided to hang up his apron at Domino’s Pizza earlier this month after the gross rental income on his property investments grew to more than $130,000 a year.

No longer in the workforce, he plans to dedicate his new found time to his passion: buying more homes, including a soon-to-be concluded 14th property purchase.

Three of his properties were purchased in the last 10 months alone — a time when housing values increased by an average of 10 per cent across much of NSW.

The way in which he started his property investment journey is just as remarkable.

Mr Fleming bought his first home, a three-bedroom townhouse in the Penrith suburb Kingswood, at 19, while delivering pizza for $10 an hour.

Eighteen months before that purchase he had been snowed under in debt from a car loan, but a strict savings regimen and extra hours at work helped him pay off the money quickly and scratch together a deposit.

“I worked 60 hours a week, some weeks for seven days straight, and lived with my parents,” Mr Fleming said.

“That helped me save a lot faster. I still only had a small deposit. The rest was First Home Owners’ Grant, which was more generous back then.”

The home Mr Fleming purchased was a rundown property in need of work, which helped him negotiate a $189,000 price. He reduced his mortgage costs by getting friends to rent out his spare rooms.

A renovation helped double the home’s value within a year, which allowed him to refinance his loan and draw equity out of the property to use as a deposit for subsequent property purchases.

These included another property in Kingswood and units in St Marys, which he purchased under value. His most recent purchases were in regional NSW and South Australia.

Mr Fleming attributed his success to an unconventional buying strategy. He ignores his own property tastes and buys homes based purely on their rents and potential to increase in value. As their value grows, he draws out equity to leverage into his next property.

Part of what made this strategy work was his extreme approach to saving, even when he later became a Dominos store manager with a slightly higher wage.

“I survived on two-minute noodles and free pizza,” Mr Fleming said. “I was always working, so I never had the chance to spend money.”

Such an approach is vital in a market where prices have spiralled out of control, he added.

“Just because you’re on a low income doesn’t mean you can’t buy property,” he said.

“You just have to be careful with money. You don’t need to go on holiday all the time. Try drink less alcohol. If you can reduce your non-deductible debt it will help.”

The potential reward is worth it, Mr Fleming added.

“It was a wonderful feeling leaving work knowing I didn’t need to come back. I’m hoping to now help other people on a low-income get started. So many people think they have no chance of buying property and they shouldn’t bother. I want to change that.”

CLEARANCE RATE: Sydney and Melbourne neck and neck 3:57 A look at the nation's property market for the week ending Saturday 8th October