http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3832698/Nine-months-pregnant-woman-Texas-goes-missing-hours-labor-induced.html
90
9
A nine months pregnant woman who went missing hours before she was scheduled to have labor induced in Texas has been found.

Jessica Van Raub was last seen Monday morning in the Humble area before she was scheduled to have labor induced by doctors at a hospital.

Police say the 37-year-old woman was found on Tuesday inside of a Walmart restroom. It's unclear if she has given birth or what condition she was in when she was found.

Hours after she disappeared, the woman's boyfriend and father of her unborn son, Jace Fellman, said she had left their home to go get gas and was supposed to return so they could go to the hospital together.

Scroll down for video

Jessica Van Raub (above), a missing nine months pregnant woman who is due to give birth any day now in Texas, has been found, police say

Van Raub was last seen Monday morning in the Humble area before she was scheduled to have labor induced by doctors at a hospital. She was found Tuesday morning inside the restroom of a Walmart

'I want her back that's for sure, and I want my baby,' Fellman told KPRC.

'She seemed like she was OK, maybe a little nervous because she was older and going have a baby, but other than that, she seemed excited about it.'

The last post Van Raub shared on Facebook one day before she went missing she wrote: 'Come on Monday!!!'

The expectant mother also shared a meme that said 'I am so ready to have this baby'.

Fellman said they searched the area for Van Raub and checked several hospitals, but did not find her.

The last post Van Raub shared on Facebook (above) one day before she went missing she wrote: 'Come on Monday!!!'

Hours after she disappeared, the woman's boyfriend and father of her unborn son, Jace Fellman (above), said she had left their home to go get gas and was supposed to return so they could go to the hospital together

The SUV she was driving was found parked at the Davita Dialysis Center off 1960, but police said there was no sign of foul play or forced entry.

Van Raub is already a mother to two children and it's unclear if she has delivered the baby

In addition, the bag she had packed for the hospital was found inside the SUV that had not been filled up with gas.

Authorities and her family members were concerned about Van Raub's safety.