http://www.express.co.uk/news/politics/723957/EU-summit-Theresa-May-Brussels-European-leaders
90
9
Her withering rebuke came in response to signals that some still believe the Brexit vote can be reversed. The Prime Minister demanded instead a “mature, co-operative” approach to talks on the UK’s departure. Her forceful slapdown came at the end of a two-day Brussels summit which saw Eurocrats repeatedly seek to marginalise debate about Britain’s departure from the bloc.

GETTY Prime Minister Theresa May demanded a 'mature' approach to Brexit talks during the EU summit

Michel Barnier, the EU’s lead negotiator on the Brexit process, is even said to have suggested snarling up the forthcoming talks by conducting them in French. Even after the Prime Minister told the 27 other EU leaders over a working dinner that she was determined to deliver Brexit, EU Council President Donald Tusk speculated that Britain’s referendum decision could be overturned. “If it is reversible or not, this is in the British hands. I would be the happiest one if it is reversible,” he said.

PA EU Council President Donald Tusk speculated that Britain’s referendum decision could be overturned

EU summit 2016: EU leaders meet Fri, October 21, 2016 EU Leaders meet to discuss migration, trade and Russia, including its role in Syria, it will be also the first summit attended by new British Prime Minister Theresa May. Play slideshow AFP/Getty Images 1 of 29 Italy's Prime minister Matteo Renzi (L) speaks with Luxembourg's Prime minister Xavier Bettel during the second day of an European Union leaders summit

Lord Hill, Britain’s senior representative in Brussels until the Brexit vote, responded to Mr Tusk’s comments by saying: “I think there is a surprisingly wide-held view that Britain might still decide to stay in.” But in a news conference at the close of the summit, Mrs May again made it clear Brexit will go ahead. She said: “I want a mature, cooperative relationship with our European partners. I recognise the scale of the challenges ahead. I am sure there will be difficult moments. It will require some give and take.

AFP • GETTY European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker did not comment on Mrs May's speech

“But I firmly believe that if we approach this in a constructive spirit, as I am, then we can deliver a smooth departure and build a powerful new relationship that works both for the UK and the countries of the EU looking for opportunities not problems.”

I want a mature, cooperative relationship with our European partners Prime Minister Theresa May

Mrs May insisted the UK had the right to begin trade negotiations with the rest of the world before the country has formally quit the EU. She said: “As we prepare to leave the EU, I’ve been clear that the UK is discussing our future trading relationship with third countries. “It is about seizing the opportunities of Brexit and about forging an ambitious and optimistic new role in the world.”