http://www.sfgate.com/business/article/Business-News-Roundup-Oct-28-10418552.php
90
9
Business News Roundup, Oct. 28

Law may help

FBI to hack

The Justice Department is citing last week’s widespread cyberattacks to support allowing U.S. agents to search online devices in faraway locations with approval from a single judge. Lawmakers on Thursday expressed renewed reservations about expanding the FBI’s authority to hack devices.

An amendment to the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, which governs search warrants, goes into effect on Dec. 1 unless Congress stops it. Google and civil liberties groups have argued that the amendment grants the government overly broad powers, with potentially unintended consequences.

Sens. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., and Rand Paul, R-Ky., have proposed legislation to block the amendment. On Thursday, 23 lawmakers wrote to Attorney General Loretta Lynch asking how the Justice Department “intends to use its proposed new powers, and the potential consequences to our digital security.”

The amendment is intended to deal with scenarios where certain technology makes it difficult to determine a computer’s location, or cases when swarms of computers are used to coordinate digital attacks. When the computers can’t be located physically, agents could hack into them and look for clues.

The amendment would allow a judge to issue one warrant for computers or devices in multiple districts. Generally judges can issue a search warrant only for their own district.

Earnings

LinkedIn

makes profit

LinkedIn Corp. on Thursday reported third-quarter income of $8.6 million, after reporting a loss in the same period a year earlier.

The Mountain View company said its profit amounted to 6 cents per share. Adjusted for one-time gains and costs, earnings were $1.18 per share.

The online professional networking company, which is being bought by Microsoft, posted revenue of $959.8 million in the period, also topping Street forecasts.

Amazon misses

profit estimates

Amazon.com’s profit fell short of analysts’ expectations last quarter, despite a 29 percent increase in sales.

The Seattle company said Thursday it made $252 million (52 cents per share). Analysts had expected 78 cents per share.

The announcement of the results took an immediate toll on Amazon shares, which fell nearly 7 percent to $763.19 in after-hours trading.

Amazon’s results often have yielded surprises, but investors in recent quarters had come to expect tidy earnings, as the Amazon Web Services cloud computing business helped increase profitability. Chief Financial Officer Brian Olsavsky said heavy spending on fulfillment centers, which expanded by 30 percent in the past year, and shows for its Prime Video service contributed to the shortfall.

Chronicle News Services