http://www.timeslive.co.za/sundaytimes/stnews/2016/10/30/Christmas-in-Mauritian-jail-after-island-tragedy
90
9
Mundolene Vosloo, 17, died after allegedly being slapped by her stepmother.

The two were said to have argued in their hotel room during a holiday on the island.

Vosloo is being held in the Beau Bassin women's prison. She has not had any visitors since her arrest on October 5, according to her lawyer, Zaredhin Jaunbaccus.

Police are expected to complete their investigations into the incident next month. A decision will then be taken whether to prosecute.

Jaunbaccus said Vosloo appeared in court on Thursday.

"She is OK. She has not had any visitors," he said.

She is due to appear in court again next month.

Mundolene, from Springs, died from a head injury suffered at the Hotel Riu.

It has been reported that the two women got into a fight at the hotel pool.

The argument between them escalated in their room when Mundolene grabbed Vosloo by the hand. Vosloo then allegedly struck the teenager, who collapsed.

The incident was witnessed by Mundolene's 14-year-old brother, who is expected to be a key witness if the matter goes to trial.

Jaunbaccus confirmed that Vosloo, 39, had taken part in a crime-scene reconstruction at the hotel two weeks ago.

"The inquiry will most likely be completed in the next month. Then it will be sent to the director of public prosecution for a formal decision," he said.

Police said the investigation was still in progress.

"She is well and is satisfied," Mauritian police said.

Mundolene's family have declined to speak to the press, but a friend of Vosloo , who did not want to be named, said the relationship between Vosloo and Mundolene had been strained and that Vosloo, who is married to Mundolene's father, Mike, had struggled to bond with the teenager.

"Mundolene's father travelled a lot, so they were left alone."

The woman said Vosloo, who has an 11-year-old son with Mike, had changed over the past few months.

She had gone from a woman who "always wore makeup, high-heeled shoes, and had manicures and pedicures" to neglecting her appearance.

"I'm very worried about her son, he's only 11 and has lost his mother and sister," she said.

Mundolene, a pupil at Hugenote High School in Springs, was buried on October 14.