http://www.dailypost.co.uk/news/avril-whitfield-search-specialist-divers-11906347
90
9
Get daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email

A search by specialist divers for missing Avril Whitfield has been postponed for a month after a key member of the team was injured.

The 57-year-old has been missing from her home in the town since April 1.

North Wales Chief Inspector of Operations for Gwynedd and Môn, Richie Green, said the last reported sightings of Avril were near the town’s Tesco supermarket and the Cibyn industrial estate, but they are still keeping an open mind about her disappearance.

At the end of last month, police released photographs of the divers who had spent a second day searching a clay pit filled with water at the former Seiont brickworks quarry on the outskirts of the town.

The lake was searched in July and August.

Divers search lake for Avril

Video Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now Watch this video again Video will play in Share this video Watch Next

The lake is very deep in places with lots of trees, plants and vegetation around it.

Expert search team British International Rescue and Search Dogs (BIRD) was brought in for a second time to search a part of the lake they wanted to investigate further but nothing was found.

They have now been forced to postpone further searches for at least a month.

Joint leader of the Penmaenmawr-based team Rob Morris said: “We brought in a specialist diving team we use from Manchester. They have completed the shallower sweeps of the clay pit but to carry out a proper search they need to bring more equipment.”

Among the equipment used by them are high powered torches.

Mr Morris said their efforts had been hampered, however, after the Manchester team’s lead member suffered an injury not related to the search for Avril.

Mr Morris believed it would be at least another month before the injured man could return to join the search.

Mr Morris said: “He’s the lead member. It’s going to be another month before he returns.”

The Bird team were called back to carry out more searches after Mr Morris’ dog, a labrador bitch, sensed something was not quite right.

Mr Morris added: “I am quite a thorough person. I don’t like to walk away from any possibility. She’s excellent at her job.”

A North Wales Police spokeswoman said: “BIRD will not be undertaking further searches of the clay pit at the current time, but all lines of inquiry relating to Avril Whitfield are continuing.”

Police say they are still determined to find her and have maintained regular contact with her family throughout.

Searches have been carried out in and around the Caernarfon area with help of Avril’s friends and family, volunteers, coastguard staff, the RAF and the Underwater Search Team and SARDA (Search and Rescue Dogs Association).

Posters have also been distributed in and around the Caernarfon and Bangor and Llandudno areas.