http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3833114/Call-ASAP-Desperate-final-text-message-woman-sent-father-fatally-stabbed-ex-fiance-came-pick-engagement-ring.html
90
9
Julia Martin spent her final blood-soaked moments desperately trying to reach her father, but he missed all of her calls and did not see her last text message until after she was dead.

According to the Chicago Police Department, Martin's 35-year-old ex-fiance, identified to the Daily Mail Tuesday afternoon as Rodney Harvey Jr, ambushed her at her home in the 3000 block of South King Drive at around 7pm Friday and repeatedly stabbed her before jumping to his death from a window.

Mortally wounded, Martin dialed 911 asking to send an ambulance and told the dispatcher the name of the person who attacked her.

Her next call was to her father, Derrick Martin.

Violence: Julia Martin, 28, was stabbed to death by her ex-fiance, Rodney Harvey Jr, 35 (pictured together left) when he came over to her Chicago apartment under the guise of collecting her engagement ring (seen right)

Crime scene: Harvey jumped to his death from a window at 3001 South King Drive (pictured)

Speaking to the Chicago Tribune just days after his eldest daughter's violent death, Mr Martin said Julia was calling and texting him and other loved ones begging for help.

'She called another friend and she was panting over the phone trying to get her breath,' Mr Martin told the paper. ‘He [friend] thought it was a prank and he hung up on her.'

A dying Julia then sent her dad a text that read: 'Call me ASAP,' but she never got a response. Derrick only saw the message much later, when his child was already dead.

Julia and her former fiance, Rodney Harvey, were rushed to Northwestern Memorial Hospital, where they were pronounced dead less than 20 minutes apart.

Autopsies ruled Martin's death a homicide and her ex-fiance's a suicide. According to a statement from the Cook County medical examiner’s office emailed to the Daily Mail, Harvey died of 'Cervical fracture and dislocation due to Jump from height.'

Futile efforts: Martin called 911 asking to send an ambulance and told the dispatcher the name of her killer

Julia's grieving father revealed to the Tribune Monday that the murder-suicide came about six months after his daughter had broken up with Harvey, whom she had dated for three years.

The father said he never thought her daughter's fiance could pose a danger to her.

In a conversation with her dad last weekend, the 28-year-old Julia said that she was planning to return her engagement ring to Harvey because it was the right thing to do.

Then on Friday evening, the jilted groom came over to Julia’s apartment under the guise of picking up the ring, but instead stabbed her multiple times before taking his own life.

Derrick Martin, who has a younger daughter and a grandchild, described Julia as ambitious and hardworking.

Daughter's plea: Martin (left and right) called and texted friends and loved ones, but no one replied. Her father did not see her final message until after she died

A native of Detroit, Julia graduated from Michigan State University and worked as a human resources supervisor at an architecture firm in Chicago. Her dad said her ultimate goal was to move to New York City.

She also only recently got her passport in anticipation of a planned trip to Africa this winter.

Julia's slaying comes two years after her mother, Derrick’s wife of 20 years, died of heart disease. He also recently lost both his parents and his brother.

The next day after the murder-suicide, Harvey's mother, Lynda Crawford Harvey, launched a GoFundMe campaign asking for donations to help cover his final expenses.

In the description of the fundraiser, the mother writes of Harvey that he was her first born and that he 'died unexpectedly.' It makes no mention of Julia Martin, or the circumstances of Harvey's passing.

'Deeply troubled': Harvey (left and right) and Martin had dated for six years. His mother described him as 'sometimes deeply troubled'

Controversial fundraiser: Harvey's mother has launched a GoFundMe campaign soliciting donations to help cover his final expenses

'He loved me, his mom, but was sometimes deeply troubled,' Mrs Harvey wrote. 'You never expect someone you love to die so young.

'I saw my son, Rodney just last week and he hugged me so tight I almost couldn't breathe. I didn't break the hug. "I love you, Mom" he said. I hope I was always there for him.'

In just three days, the fundraiser has drawn $6,250 in donations, easily meeting and then surpassing its initial goal of $4,000.