http://www.news.com.au/national/queensland/courts-law/gable-tostee-murder-trial-it-wasnt-just-an-ordinary-scream-it-was-a-terrified-scream/news-story/9d371f8eb19ac2e00fee6fa474f631fd
90
9
Video

Image Gable Tostee/Warriena Wright confrontation 4:02 GRAPHIC CONTENT WARNING : A court has heard this recording of an alleged altercation between Gable Tostee and Warriena Wright in the moments before she plunged to her death.

Kim Stephens news.com.au @kimbo_stephens

IT WAS terror. Sheer, unmistakeable terror.

When the cries of Warriena Wright rang out, via an audio recording, across the Brisbane Supreme Court on Tuesday, the chilling tape left no question the 26-year-old was in fear for her life in the moments before she plunged to her death from the balcony of Gable Tostee’s 14th floor Gold Coast apartment.

The voice of Tostee, which had, in the recordings played on Monday, seemed so calm and rational, suddenly turned.

The Crown earlier argued it could best be described as threatening and intimidating.

Witness after witness on Tuesday testified that there was something different about these screams.

They were not just regular cries, according to James Evans, who was passing by the Avalon Apartments when Ms Wright fell from the 14th floor balcony of the apartment belonging to Tostee on August 8, 2014.

“It wasn’t just an ordinary scream. It was a terrified scream,” he testified.

He then heard what he described as “a large bang”. Minutes later, he saw a man later identified as Tostee running from the apartment building on foot.

Nick Casey, a hairdresser, was visiting a friend in the apartment two levels beneath that belonging to Tostee, when he heard cries for help from above.

When he went to the balcony and looked up, he saw a woman lowering herself over the balustrade.

“I heard her say, ‘I want to go home’. I heard her say, ‘help’ and at that point I said to her, ‘go back inside’ and it wasn’t long after that she fell.”

Mr Casey’s may well have been the last voice Ms Wright ever heard.

“She fell straight past where I was standing on the balcony and ricocheted off a few balconies below us and kept on going to the ground,” he said.

Ms Wright, 26, fell to her death from the balcony of Tostee’s 14th floor apartment.

The audio recording played to the jury on Monday and Tuesday will be a key factor in the jury determining whether he is guilty of murder.

The Crown has argued that Ms Wright was so in fear of her life, that when Tostee locked her on his balcony, after refusing to let her leave his apartment, she felt she had no other choice but to escape by climbing over the balcony.

They argue this constitutes murder.

Tostee’s legal counsel, however, has argued that the chain of causation ended when he locked her out on the balcony.

It will be up to the jury to make the ultimate decision.

In the chilling tape played on Tuesday morning, Tostee is heard to threaten the young New Zealander, who he had apparently plied with alcohol in his apartment after they matched on dating app Tinder.

Recordings played on Monday revealed Ms Wright was drunk and often violent towards Tostee but as the evening wore on, she apparently seemed in fear for her life, pleading with him to let her go home.

“You goddamn psycho. I’m going to let you go, I’m going to walk you out of this apartment, just the way you are,” he says.

“You’re not going to collect any belongings. I’ll slam the door on you. You’re not going to pull anything or I’ll knock you out. I’ll knock you the f*** out. Do you understand? Do you understand?”

He apparently changes his mind, however, feuding to let her leave after a muffled scuffle between the pair.

“No, no, no, no,” Ms Wright is heard to repeatedly yell, in chilling, blood curdling screams.

“I want to go home. Just let me go home.”

“I would, but you’ve been a bad girl,” he replies.

The apparently violent fight, in which Tostee later confessed to his father he tackled the young New Zealander to the ground, is silenced by the sound of a sliding door, which fits with the Crown’s contention that Tostee locked her on his 14th floor balcony.

Within moments, the 26-year-old had fallen to her death.

In the aftermath, amid the silence, Tostee is heard to be breathing heavily, before making a phone call that goes unanswered and then leaving the apartment.

In a later phone call to his father Gray, also recorded, he tells his father he, “might have a bit of a situation”.

When his father comes to collect him, Tostee explains that he and Ms Wright had watched a movie and had sex throughout the course of the evening but that she drank heavily.

“The last thing I remember is trying to hold her down and she ran out onto the balcony. I hope I just imagined it,” he says.

“I might have locked her on the balcony ... I absolutely did not throw her off my balcony. I would never do anything like that.”

There is no contention by the Crown that Tostee murdered Ms Wright by pushing or throwing her off the balcony.

However, his culpability in her death is disputed.

The Crown has argued that the obvious fear in Ms Wright’s voice prior to being locked on the balcony constitutes murder by virtue of the fact she was fleeing for her life when she fell.

The ultimate decision, however, rests with the six men and six women of the jury.

The trial, before Justice John Byrne, continues.