http://www.dw.com/en/burundi-bans-three-un-investigators-over-damning-report/a-36011113
90
9
The human rights investigators were no longer welcome in Burundi, Foreign Affairs Minister Alain Aime Nyamitwe said on Monday, adding that the decision was effective immediately.

The move targets Pablo de Greiff of Colombia, Christof Heyns of South Africa, and Maya Sahli-Fadel of Algeria, who were appointed last December to lead a UN probe into the Burundi violence. All three of them are linked to a recent report on the 18-months of unrest that claimed at least 500 lives.

In the report, the experts blamed the Burundian government for abusing its political opponents, concluding that "gross human rights violations have and are taking place, committed primarily by state agents and those linked to them."

Thousands of people of have been tortured, sexually abused, or disappeared, with the government arbitrarily detaining people "on a massive scale," according to the report. The struggle for power first grew violent in April last year, when President Pierre Nkurunziza announced he would pursue a third term despite the slew of protests both at home and abroad.

Watch video 01:42 Share Burundi: Amnesty claims evidence of mass graves Send Facebook Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit del.icio.us Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/1Hm9i Burundi: Amnesty claims evidence of mass graves

Fear of Hague court

UN spokesman Stephane Dujarric decried Bujumbura's decision to ban their officials on Monday.

"It's critical that Burundi and every other country cooperate fully with UN human rights mechanism and that is including working with those representing it," he said.

Other international activists have already met a similar fate, including a representative of the non-governmental organization Trial International who was stripped of her visa and ordered to leave the east African country. The legal advisor from Italy was previously scheduled to provide training for Burundian lawyers defending victims of state violence.

On Friday, Burundi threatened to pull out of the International Criminal Court, warning of a "plot" to harm the country. The move came after the court said it would investigate the violence in Burundi. Some observers claim that the nation's leadership fears being indicted before the Hague tribunal.

The UN Security Council is due to discuss the Burundi crisis on Thursday, with UN envoy Jamal Benomar presenting a report.

Burundi: The chronology of a crisis Election amid high tensions July 21, 2015: After three months of protests against Pierre Nkurunziza's third term and fierce battles between Nkurunziza’s supporters and the opposition, the presidential election was finally held. But the opposition chose to boycott it.

Burundi: The chronology of a crisis Agathon Rwasa, an unlucky loser? July 24, 2015: President Nkurunziza wins the presidential election in the first round. With 69% of the vote, he was far ahead of his main challenger, Agathon Rwasa. By the end of July, Rwasa was surprisingly elected as first vice president of the national assembly, sparking criticism from his former allies.

Burundi: The chronology of a crisis European Union raises concerns August 1, 2015: Adolphe Nshimirimana, head of internal security and considered the right-hand man of the president, is assassinated. In a statement, the European Union raised concern over this "dangerous escalation of violence." Brussels calls for "restraint" and a resumption of "dialogue."

Burundi: The chronology of a crisis Attacks on civil society August 3, 2015: Pierre-Claver Mbonimpa, head of the human rights organization (APRODH), survives an assassination attempt and is evacuated to Brussels for medical treatment. But his family continues to be targeted and in October 2015 one of his sons-in-laws is killed and a month later his son is also murdered in Bujumbura.

Burundi: The chronology of a crisis Tensions with neighboring Rwanda Since the crisis began, a large number of Burundian refugees fled to neighboring Rwanda. On November 6, 2015, President Kagame spoke about what was happening in Burundi: "People are dying every day, corpses littering the streets," he said. "They should learn from what happened here." Nkurunziza’s team fired back, accusing Rwanda of training rebels seeking to destabilize the country.

Burundi: The chronology of a crisis Violence escalates December 12, 2015: A crackdown begins on neighborhoods like Nyakabiga that were believed to be strongholds of protesters. This came after an attack by rebels against three military camps. More than a hundred victims were identified. The UN said that 400 people had been killed since April 26 and 3,500 were arrested in connection with the crisis.

Burundi: The chronology of a crisis The United Nations sounds the alarm December 17, 2015: The United Nations warns that the situation in Burundi is "highly explosive" and that the country is on the path to a civil war. Adama Dieng, the UN special rapporteur on the prevention of genocide, warns of a possible genocide. "If a conflict breaks out on a large scale, we cannot pretend that we did not know about it," he said.

Burundi: The chronology of a crisis A new rebel movement is formed December 23, 2015: A former army officer in the Burundian army forms the "Republican Forces of Burundi" (FOREBU). Lieutenant Colonel Edouard Nshimirimana accuses Pierre Nkurunziza of instigating the security forces to commit acts of violence and pitting police and military against each other along ethnic lines.

Burundi: The chronology of a crisis Attempted dialogue December 28, 2015: Inter-Burundian peace talks start in Entebbe under the auscipices of Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni. The African Union (AU) also announces that it will deploy a 5,000-strong peacekeeping force to help secure the country, an idea that is immediately rejected by the Burundian government.

Burundi: The chronology of a crisis Mediation fails January 2016: Mediation fails to kickoff in Arusha. A month later, February 25 -26, the African Union sends a "high- level" delegation to Bujumbura led by South African President Jacob Zuma. It’s another failed attempt. Bujumbura refuses to talk with the opposition CNARED. UNHCR announces a group of independent experts to investigate violations of human rights in Burundi.

Burundi: The chronology of a crisis Allegations of torture by security forces April 18, 2016: The UN Human Rights Commissioner Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein criticizes Burundi’s security forces for routinely torturing prisoners. Since the beginning of the year, his team had registered at least 345 new cases of torture. He urged the Burundian authorities to immediately put an end to torture in all its forms.

Burundi: The chronology of a crisis Opposition not invited for dialogue May 21, 2016: After another delay, the Inter-Burundian dialogue resumes in Arusha, Tanzania at the initiative of the Tanzanian mediator, former President Benjamin Mkapa. The Burundian authorities demand that the opposition coalition CNARED should not be part of the dialogue. In June, the facilitator [Mkapa] travels to Brussels to meet members of the Opposition for the first time.

Burundi: The chronology of a crisis Costly doodles June 3: Eleven students from a high school in Muramvya, in central Burundi, were charged and jailed for insulting the head of state. Their crime: doodled pictures of President Nkurunziza. A week earlier, more than 300 college students from Ruziba, south of Bujumbura, were expelled from school for the same reason.

Burundi: The chronology of a crisis A former minister assassinated July 13, 2016. Hafsa Mossi, a former minister believed to be close to President Nkurunziza, is murdered near his home. A member of the ruling CNDD-FDD party, the former journalist was also the communications advisor for Nkurunziza. It is the first time a prominent political figure has been assassinated in Burundi.

Burundi: The chronology of a crisis An empty seat in Kigali The crisis in Burundi was on the agenda of the 27th AU Summit in Kigali in July, but it took place without a representative from Bujumbura. The Burundi delegation left the Rwandan capital without explanation just days before the start of the summit. No action was taken against the government of President Pierre Nkurunziza, who still refuses to negotiate with the opposition.

dj/kl (AP, AFP)