http://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-3833424/Vicki-Gunvalson-thinks-late-mother-God-played-picking-new-boyfriend-Steve-Lodge.html
91
9
Vicki Gunvalson finally has a full love tank.

The Real Housewives Of Orange County star told Andy Cohen on Monday's Watch What Happens Live that her beau Steve Lodge is 'amazing.'

The 54-year-old blonde also revealed she thinks her late mother as well as God himself helped pick out the former police officer for her.

Scroll down for video

She has a theory: Vicki Gunvalson told Andy Cohen on Watch What Happens Live that she thinks her late mother played a part in her meeting new beau Steve Lodge

On his toes: Andy Cohen had fun with Vicki on the Bravo chat show on Monday

'He’s amazing,' Vicki gushed to the Bravo producer and host.

'He’s, like, amazing. Like God gave him [to me]. I think my [late] mom sent him down. He’s incredible. Yeah, he’s incredible. Like, my tank is full.'

Gunvalson met Lodge at a charity auction event earlier this year. Her ex is Brooks Ayers.

A good year: Vicki and Steve have been dating since earlier this year

A smooch: The 54-year-old RHOC beauty said Lodge was 'amazing'

On Monday's episode of RHOC, her co-stars expressed their reservations about Lodge.

When he sent Gunvalson flowers during her trip to Dublin he didn't sign with the word 'love.' 'Why wouldn’t he love me? I’m a great catch,' Vicki said.

She also wrote on Instagram: 'Thank you@lodge4anaheim for my beautiful roses when I checked in. We had only known each other for two weeks then, so haters keep your comments to yourself. I love him and am committed to this man.'

The stressful ex: Gunvalson used to date Brook Ayers, who has said he has cancer; here they are seen in 2012

On WWHL a viewer asled how she felt about her costars Shannon Beador and Tamra Judge 'interrogating' Lodge on the show.

Gunvalson said, 'It comes with the territory. I already pre-warned him, "The girls might interrogate you. Because I’ve had a past of picking bad people."'

She added: 'It was just, like, awkward for me because it was, like, date three!' .

Getting along: Vicki and Sonja Morgan got along just fine and have socialized together

The 'O.G. of the O.C' boasted about her new boyfriend Steve Lodge.

'He's like amazing, it's like God gave him. I think my mom sent him down... He's incredible. My tank is full,' she sighed.

Vicki was asked why she didn't defend her friend Kelly Dodd while the RHOC women 'ganged up on her' in Ireland.

'I purposefully stayed neutral because I really love Kelly and I was trying to get back into social graces with the other women, so for me it was a good place to say ''you know what I'm out of it'' it has nothing to do with me,' she explained.