http://www.politico.com/states/new-york/albany/story/2016/08/republican-bonacic-seeks-to-win-democratic-primary-105039
20
2
Sen. John Bonacic speaks during a Senate judiciary hearing at the Capitol. | AP Photo/Mike Groll Republican Bonacic seeks victory in Democratic primary

ALBANY — Nine-term Republican state Sen. John Bonacic has the GOP, Conservative, Independence and Reform party lines locked up for the November election, but he’s also hoping to win the Democratic line through a write-in campaign in next month's primary.

Pramilla Malick, an opponent of a $1 billion natural gas-fired power plant being constructed by Competitive Power Ventures in Wawayanda, Orange County, has reached out to local Democrats asking them to make the plant an issue in their campaign against Bonacic this year. Specifically, she was hoping they’d highlight work Bonacic’s son performed for CPV when it was seeking state approval.

Story Continued Below

But Malick discovered the party didn’t have a candidate to run in the 42nd Senate District, which includes portions of Delaware, Orange and Ulster counties as well as all of Sullivan County. She eventually decided to run herself, but at that point, the only opportunity for her to do so was to mount an “opportunity to ballot” campaign, which will result in primary next month but with no names on the ballot. The person who gets the most write-in votes in what will likely be a very low turnout affair will win the line.

Bonacic recently sent a mailing to Democrats asking them to write in his name. Malick says it was received by nursing home residents and people with disabilities who will vote by absentee ballot.

“In my time as State Senator, I have fought for a number of causes, but one that I am most proud of is fighting for our seniors. Your support would be greatly appreciated and I humbly ask for you to write in “JOHN J. BONACIC” for State Senator for the 42nd District as I seek to continue to ensure our seniors can enjoy their quality of life,” Bonacic wrote in the mailing.

“If Democrats want to vote for him, they have every right to vote for him, but they can do so in a general election,” Malick said. “So if anybody feels he’s doing such a good job they want to vote for him, they can do that. The only thing he does by this tactic is deprive the voters of a choice.”

“An individual chose to pursue an Opportunity to Ballot petition, thereby allowing anyone's name to be written in,” Bonacic spokesman Conor Gillis said. “Senator Bonacic has enjoyed support from people of all political parties throughout his public service career. If individuals choose to write his name in, we welcome it.”

Bonacic has more of a history of crossing party lines than any other current Senate Republican.

In 2006, he was the first Republican senator to call for Majority Leader Joe Bruno to resign his leadership post when news broke Bruno was under federal investigation. “Democratic insiders” later told the New York Post’s Fred Dicker that Bonacic had been lobbied by then-Gov. Eliot Spitzer to conduct a coup and flip the Senate from Bruno’s control after the GOP’s majority had dwindled to one. Last year, Bonacic was the first Republican to call for Majority Leader Dean Skelos to step down after Skelos was arrested on corruption charges.

In January, Bonacic became the only Senate Republican to back a bill prioritized by abortion rights activists. He also has a long history of backing internal reforms that aren’t popular with leadership.

Malick said Bonacic's history of breaking with his conference’s positions doesn’t qualify him to be the candidate of every party in November.

“Reaching across party lines does not make him a Democrat. It makes him do something that every elected official should do,” she said. “Democratic voter have a right to have a Democratic candidate.”

If he wins the primary, Bonacic would not be the only legislative candidate with the backing of both major parties in November.

State Sen. Simcha Felder, a Democrat who conferences with Republicans, has both lines as do Assemblymen Michael Simanowitz and Mickey Kearns. Democratic Assemblymen Robin Schimminger and Dov Hikind have the Conservative lines, and there’s an opportunity to ballot for the Republican candidacy in the district represented by Hikind, who has secured both major parties’ nominations in past elections.

In 2010, the last time Bonacic had an opponent, he beat Democrat David Sager after receiving just shy of 60 percent of the vote. He’s won every Senate race he’s been in since he was first elected in 1998 by a comfortable margin, though he’s never had a major party challenger in a presidential election year, when Democrats typically perform better.