http://www.dailymail.co.uk/wires/ap/article-3801492/MH370-Investigators-cast-doubt-catastrophic-fire-evidence.html
90
9
The debris was discoloured by a reaction in resin, a statement said

Australian experts now doubt the crash was caused by a fire

The Malaysian Airlines flight is believed to have plunged into the Indian Ocean on March 8, 2014

Investigators have yet to confirm the debris, found in Madagascar, is from the missing plane

Missing Malaysian airliner MH370 may not have been downed by a catastrophic fire after all, accident investigators have said.

Five pieces of debris were delivered by wreckage hunter Blaine Gibson - an American who has dedicated the last 18 months to investigating the mystery crash - to officials at the Australian Transport Safety Bureau last week, having been found in Madagascar.

The bureau said in a statement today that investigators had yet to determine whether the pieces were from the Boeing 777, which is believed to have plunged into the Indian Ocean with 239 people on board on March 8, 2014.

American investigator Blaine Gibson holding some of the debris believed to be from the missing MH370 plane, which was found in Madagascar

A preliminary examination has found that two fiberglass-honeycomb pieces were not burnt, as initially thought.

Instead they been discolored by a reaction in resin that had not been caused by exposure to fire or heat, the statement said.

There were three small areas of heat damage on one of the pieces which created a burnt odor. However, that odor suggested the heat damage was recent, it said.

It was initially thought that a fire could have brought the plane down after scorch marks were found on the debris

Possible debris from the missing plane was handed over to Australian authorities by MH370 investigator Blaine Gibson

'It was considered that burning odors would generally dissipate after an extended period of environmental exposure, including salt water immersion, as expected for items originating from' the missing plane, the statement said.

Gibson has collected 14 pieces of debris potentially from the missing plane, including a triangular panel stenciled 'no step' that he found in Mozambique in February.

Officials say that panel was almost certainly a horizontal stabilizer from a Flight 370 wing.

Five pieces of debris were handed over to investigators last week, but it has not been confirmed that they came from the missing Boeing 777

The plane has been missing since March 8, 2014, when it disappeared carrying 239 people

Gibson had said the darkened surfaces of the latest debris could be evidence that a fire ended the flight far from its scheduled route from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, to Beijing.

But he conceded he had no idea when the apparent heat damaged had occurred.

A sonar search of 120,000 square kilometers (46,000 square miles) of seabed which is calculated to be the most likely crash site in the southern Indian Ocean is almost complete without any trace of the plane being found.

Pilot Zaharie Ahmad Shah, with wife Faizah Hanun and his children

It has been claimed that pilot Captain Zaharie Ahmad Shah was 'heartbroken' over an alleged breakdown in a relationship with a married woman.

Shah was messaging Fatima Pardi about a 'personal matter' just two days before the plane vanished.