http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3744231/Ex-boyfriend-California-teen-died-mother-arrested-stabbing-death.html
90
9
Rory Murga (pictured), 17, was arrested in the stabbing death of his 16-year-old ex-girlfriend

The ex-boyfriend of a 16-year-old girl who died in front of her mother last week was arrested Tuesday on a charge of stabbing her to death.

Rory Murga, 17, was arrested by the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department without incident after deputies spotted him under a railroad underpass in Pico Rivera, about 10 miles southeast of downtown Los Angeles.

They had been searching for him since Friday, when his ex-girlfriend was stabbed multiple times in the chest and back in her home just after 3am.

Elena Moore, 16, died in front of her mother after sheriff's Lt Eddie Hernandez said she repeatedly screamed Rory's name and collapsed.

'She was yelling and screaming his name. It's horrible,' Hernandez said. 'Can you imagine waking up to the screams of your daughter at 3.15 in the morning and this happens? It's unthinkable.'

Rory was being booked as a juvenile on a murder charge and held without bail, Hernandez said, adding that it will be up to the Los Angeles County Attorney's Office whether to charge him as an adult.

Scroll down for video

Elena Moore (left and right), 16, died in front of her mother after sheriff's Lt Eddie Hernandez said she repeatedly screamed Rory's name and collapsed

It's unclear whether Rory has an attorney.

In addition to Elena screaming his name, Hernandez said evidence at the crime scene also tied Rory to the home.

A kitchen knife believed to be the weapon used in the attack was also recovered inside, he said.

He said detectives interviewed Rory after his arrest and that he made statements that will help them build their case.

Last week, following the stabbing, two photographs of Murga were released after investigators searched for him for twelve hours.

One showed him with short green hair, and the other one pictured him with longer black hair with a section of bangs dyed light brown.

It was unclear whether Elena let her killer into the home or whether the attacker broke in, he said, adding that damage found to the back door could have happened in the past.

The stabbing happened downstairs, and Elena was able to run upstairs to her mother before collapsing, Hernandez said.

Hernandez said the pair dated for a year before Elena broke up with Rory two weeks before she was killed.

Kara Wilson, a 15-year-old Palm Bay, Florida, girl who said she was online friends with Elena, said Elena never mentioned a boyfriend and that she's in shock over her death.

'At first I didn't believe it happened to her so I tried to call her,' Kara said. 'She didn't answer.'

The stabbing happened downstairs, and Elena (right) was able to run upstairs to her mother before collapsing, Hernandez said. He said the pair dated for a year before Elena broke up with Rory (left) two weeks before she was killed

The middle-class block of homes (pictured) is just down the street from a church and several schools. Several neighbors said that the couple always seen happy when they were spotted in the neighborhood

She said Elena stood out among all her friends because she never posted anything negative on Facebook and even defended those who were being subjected to bullying.

'She was always sticking up for people,' Kara said. 'She was the sweetest.'

The middle-class block of homes is just down the street from a church and several schools.

Twenty-year-old Jasmine Gonzalez, who lives nearby, often saw Elena and Rory walking together in the neighborhood.

'It was always just them two,' she said, adding that her grandfather woke to the girl's screams, as well. 'It's a shock to everybody.'

Another neighbor, 60-year-old David Arias, saw the couple hanging out in front of his house from time to time.

'They seemed happy and lovey dovey,' he said. 'Always hugging and kissing.'