http://finance.yahoo.com/news/nord-stream-2-still-good-210000181.html
20
2
As Jack Handey aptly pointed out “Before you criticize someone, you should walk a mile in their shoes. That way when you criticize them, you are a mile away from them and you have their shoes.” Often arguments are caused by entities talking past each other, as personal vantage points don’t allow them to see from the others perspective.

With European gas demand rising in 2015 for the first time in four years and internal gas production on the decline, and fewer new sources of gas being brought online in Europe, the search is on for new sources of the fuel. A more fuel-hungry west and an east increasingly weary of Russia’s monopoly on the gas markets is fueling a debate over what the solution should be to the gas supply question.

Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller seems little concerned after Polish antitrust authority UOKiK ruled last week that the Gazprom-led consortium looking to develop Nord Stream 2 would create too large of a monopoly and inhibit competition in the European gas network.

Miller noted that the ruling may prove not to be a stumbling block at all as he said a new solution should be found by October. Nord Stream 2, a project to twin the Nord Stream 1 line from Russian gas fields to Germany, is being developed as a consortium led by Gazprom (50%), with partnerships from European entities: E.ON (10%), OMV (10%), Shell (10%),Wintershall (10%) and ENGIE (10%).





(Click to enlarge)



North-western Europe support for Nord Stream 2





(Click to enlarge)



Although Estonia, Latvia, the Czech Republic, Poland, Hungary, Romania and Slovakia have signed a letter opposing the opening of Nord Stream 2, many of the pipeline’s investors and benefactors are Western European countries, making them more invested in the project’s success. Further, many NWE countries have traditionally had more than three gas suppliers, and on top of that there is now an additional new source of supply in the form of American LNG. As a result, the region does not normally see the difficulties of having a monopolistic player on its gas markets.





(Click to enlarge)



With gas extraction falling from states like the Netherlands to 25bn m3/yr down from 42.5 bn m3/yr in 2014 due to earthquakes, Western Europe is looking to supplant this supply with new sources. With the long-term decline of gas production in the UK and with steady demand, NWE is looking hard for new stable sources of gas.





(Click to enlarge)



As even Norway’s gas fields are approaching maturity, NWE will need to develop other options for a gas supply. The Nord Stream 2 pipeline proves to be a good solution. North-central Europe sees extra capacity in Yamal and Ukrainian Corridor gas lines, and sees Nord Stream 2 as a way to lower gas transit fees ultimately paid for by the region. If the Nord Stream 2 line were to be built, Germany would enjoy lower gas prices as less transit fees to Ukraine, Poland, Belarus, the Czech Republic and Slovakia would be paid.

Related: Has The Gulf Of Mexico Fallen Out Of Favor With The Oil Majors?

Further to the point, although LNG is a viable option for NWE as well, the region is more conscious of GHG emissions, and LNG has more related emissions due to the energy required for liquefaction and gasification, and gasses released during the processes. Considering that LNG, which currently supplies about 10 percent of NWE’s gas, is expected to increase to 20 percent, a new economic and GHG friendlier pipeline looks like a compelling option.



