http://nation.com.pk/islamabad/02-Sep-2016/key-accused-in-fahad-case-to-be-brought-in-court-today
90
9
Islamabad - The main accused of the murder of Barrister Fahad Malik, Raja Arshad who was caught while sneaking into Afghanistan a few days back, has been shifted to the federal capital and would be presented before the court of competent jurisdiction today (Friday), said sources yesterday.



He was escorted to Islamabad yesterday from the custody of political administration of Landi Kotal under strict security arrangements.



He is with the capital police on transit remand and will be presented before the trial court in Islamabad.



The district administration Islamabad Capital Territory (ICT) had approached FATA administration for transfer of Raja Arshad from Landi Kotal to Islamabad for the purpose of investigation.



The chief commissioner ICT had forwarded a request of district magistrate Islamabad to the additional chief secretary FATA, FATA Secretariat Peshawar, in which the chief commissioner had stated that accused Raja Arshad Mahmood son of Muhammad Bakhsh, resident of sector E-7, is nominated in a case (FIR 239) dated August 15, 2016 under section 302/324/148/149/337 PPC registered with police station Shalimar Islamabad.

It said the non-bailable arrest warrants of the accused had been issued from the court of competent jurisdiction.



The accused was arrested through assistant political agent Landi Kotal under section 122/123/11, 40 FCR and was on physical remand.



The chief commissioner ICT requested the FATA Secretariat that quarters concerned be directed for transfer of the accused from Landi Kotal to Islamabad police for completion of investigation of the subject case, under effective security arrangements.



The accused along with his accomplices in recent past had allegedly gunned down Barrister Fahad Malik near Shalimar police station as he was going home after mediating between Arshad group and another party.

He was arrested by the political agent aTorkham border while fleeing to Afghanistan some days back.



In another development, the suspect Farhan, who was arrested on Wednesday from Tarnol with 2-kg explosive and pistol has made startling revelations.

According to him, he was involved in I-9 target killing where constables Zahid and Imtiaz were killed in February 2016.

The sources that the same group of TTP was also involved in cracker attack on ARY news office Islamabad.

The accused has been sent for identification parade and further investigation is under way.



Furthermore, Islamabad police along with personnel of Pakistan Rangers and other security agencies yesterday conducted search operation in various areas of Secretariat police station and arrested seven suspects, a police spokesman said.



According to details, officers/officials of Islamabad police, Pak Rangers and other security agencies conducted search operation in various areas of Secretariat police station.

Around 180 houses were searched and seven suspects were arrested besides recovery of arms and ammunition from them.

