http://www.4-traders.com/news/Ministry-of-Foreign-Affairs-of-People-Republ-Li-Keqiang-Jointly-Meets-the-Press-with-Prime-Ministe--23192885/
90
9
On the afternoon of October 9, 2016, Premier Li Keqiang and Prime Minister Antonio Costa of Portugal jointly met the press at the Great Hall of the People, and answered questions from journalists.

Li Keqiang introduced the outcomes from the talks between him and Antonio Costa, and expressed that China and Portugal share broad common interests. Both sides should continuously enhance political mutual trust, intensify people-to-people and cultural exchanges, elevate the level of trade and investment, and strengthen cooperation in major areas such as infrastructure, automobile manufacturing, agricultural products and energy, especially new energy. The two sides need to jointly develop third-party markets and promote cooperation in technology. We can combine China's market potential and advantages in equipment manufacturing with Portugal's advanced technologies in relevant areas, so as to achieve win-win and multi-win results.

When answering questions regarding the development of Macao Special Administrative Region (SAR) and Forum for Economic and Trade Cooperation between China and Portuguese-speaking Countries, Li Keqiang said that over the past 17 years since Macao's return, the principles of 'one country, two systems', 'Macao people administering Macao', and a high degree of autonomy have been comprehensively implemented. The Chinese central government strictly handles affairs according to the Basic Law and firmly supports the SAR government to administrate in accordance with the law. Under the joint efforts of the SAR government and the entire community, Macao has scored remarkable development achievements.

Li Keqiang pointed out that the forum has played a significant role in boosting economic and trade cooperation as well as cultural exchanges between China and Portuguese-speaking countries and promoting the common development of the Chinese mainland, the Macao SAR and Portuguese-speaking countries since its establishment 13 years ago. It is hoped that both China and Portugal can jointly advance this inter-governmental multilateral cooperation mechanism, further tap into cooperation potential and well give play to and take advantage of the commercial and trade service platform of Macao, so as to continuously elevate the level of economic and trade cooperation between China and Portuguese-speaking countries.

Antonio Costa noted that bilateral political relations and economic and trade cooperation enjoy a sound momentum of development. Portugal is willing to continuously take advantage of the platforms of Macao and the Forum for Economic and Trade Cooperation between Portuguese-speaking Countries and China and further intensify mutually beneficial cooperation with China and relevant parties. Portugal and China should reinforce technological cooperation in such areas as new energy and automobile manufacturing and jointly carry out third-party market cooperation. As an EU member, Portugal enjoys unique location advantage, and is ready to actively participate in the 'Belt and Road' initiative, and expand infrastructure construction cooperation in ports, railways and others, so as to push forward EU-China relations and build a closer link between the Pacific and the Atlantic.