http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/still-not-enough-treatment-in-heart-of-the-opioid-crisis_us_57e92a9de4b00267764fc8a9
10
1
A West Virginia city at the epicenter of the nation’s opioid epidemic finds all its efforts to battle the scourge still fall short.

By Christine Vestal

HUNTINGTON, W.Va. — This city, where the rate of drug overdose deaths is nearly 10 times the national average, has done more than most to fight the heroin and prescription painkiller epidemic.

Local police have been diverting drug users to specialized drug courts for treatment. The city opened a syringe exchange program to reduce the spread of infectious diseases among drug users. And doctors and nurses from a local hospital have developed a model facility to care for the hundreds of opioid-dependent infants born to heroin-addicted mothers.

But instead of getting better, Huntington’s opioid problem is getting worse.

In just one afternoon last month, 28 people in this city of 50,000 overdosed on heroin. Since January, 773 people have overdosed on opioids (including prescription painkillers and heroin), a 24 percent increase over last year. An estimated 8,000 Huntington residents are addicted, mostly to opioids.

“It’s really an overwhelming situation,” said Dr. James Becker, medical director of West Virginia’s Medicaid program and professor of family medicine at Marshall University in Huntington. “My best friend’s son just died of a heroin overdose. It is absolutely everywhere in the community.”

Nationwide, less than half of the 2.2 million people who need treatment for opioid addiction are receiving it, according to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Even in Huntington, which is more focused on the problem than many other places, the barriers are daunting.

A fragmented treatment system, widespread bias against addiction medications and a shortage of trained workers often thwart those seeking help. Instead, they show up in emergency rooms, or reach out to local doctors, nurses and clergy.

Like other states that have expanded Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act, West Virginia is trying to make it easier for recipients of the federal-state health insurance program for the poor to find and pay for effective addiction treatment.

So far, however, greater availability of Medicaid coverage has not made a dent in the growing need for treatment, local officials say.

Effective Medications

Unlike other drug addictions, opioid and heroin addiction can be treated with one of three medications — methadone, buprenorphine and Vivitrol — that have proven more effective at keeping people from abusing drugs than abstinence and 12-step therapies that don’t include the medications.

But in Huntington, and much of the rest of the country, spiritual-based recovery programs are favored over medications by the general public and even some medical professionals.

“Many people believe that substance abuse is a weakness of personality and that a person needs to get a handle on their disease, and in that sense, they think that relying on a drug that replaces the drug of abuse is somehow a weakness,” Becker said.

“That’s not the view of most people in the medical community,” he said. “We understand that addiction is a disease, and that there are a lot of treatments out there that work for some and not for others.”

Still, Susan Coyer, director of Huntington Comprehensive Treatment Center, a methadone clinic next to a McDonald’s in downtown Huntington, said she has not received a single referral from any medical professionals in the two years she has been running the center.

Methadone is a long-acting opioid that acts as a replacement for heroin or prescription painkillers without producing euphoria. It eliminates physical withdrawal symptoms and drug cravings while allowing patients to function and hold down jobs.

Approved for addiction treatment in 1964, it has proven highly effective at keeping people in recovery from drug abuse. But federal regulations require patients to show up at a clinic every day to take their dose, making it an inconvenient treatment option for many.

Huntington’s highly visible clinic treats nearly a thousand patients every day, filling up downtown parking lots with cars and patients and generating resentment among local residents.

Patients are almost all from Huntington or nearby towns, although a few come from surrounding counties. Many have been taking the addiction medication for years, sometimes off and on, depending on how long they can afford the $15-a-day fee.

According to Coyer, the clinic could serve up to 250 more patients if it hired more counselors. “We’re here to help,” she said. “We want to be part of the community.”

Methadone has a very bad reputation in Huntington and in West Virginia, said Jim Johnson, Huntington’s former police chief who is now the mayor’s director of drug control policy.

West Virginia is one of the 17 states where Medicaid does not pay for methadone, and it has had an adversarial relationship with methadone clinics for decades. Methadone clinics weren’t allowed in the state until 2001, and after nine for-profit clinics set up shop in West Virginia, the Legislature in 2007 placed a moratorium on opening any more.

Local Resources

Huntington has the highest rate of opioid overdose fatalities in a state ranked No. 1 in the nation for overdose deaths. By its own calculations, West Virginia’s second largest city has an overdose death rate that is nearly 10 times the national average of 14.7 per 100,000 people in 2014.