http://m.philstar.com/314190/show/850ea0c8e6705220c570435f829e7b23?t=vuqhl6q99035i1t6mdgbu4lnd6
90
9
Rifle taken from SAF44 recovered in North Cotabato drug raid

By John Unson

NORTH COTABATO, Philippines -- Anti-narcotics agents on Tuesday killed a drug trafficker and found the assault rifle of one of the 44 police officer killed in the 2015 Mamasapano incident in a nearby house.

The encounter between the slain former municipal councilor Dindo Piang on Tuesday morning in Pikit town in the first district of North Cotabato triggered panic among local residents.

The missing rifle, listed in the firearms registry of the police’s Special Action Force, was found by combined personnel of the North Cotabato provincial police and the Region 12 Anti-Illegal Drugs Special Operations Task Force, led by Supt. Maximo Sebastian, in the house of Nasser Karim, also a suspected drug trafficker.

Karim, also implicated in large-scale drug trafficking, is the son of Senior Inspector Sindatu Karim, the municipal police chief of Pikit.

Local officials want the older Karim relieved to pave the way for a speedy probe on how the gun of an elite police trooper killed in Mamasapano town in Maguindanao last year after a police operation devolved into a fight with members of the Moro Islamic Liberation Front, Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters and private armed groups ended up with his son.

Superintendent Romeo Galgo, Jr., spokesperson of the Police Regional Office 12 in General Santos City told The STAR via mobile phone that the raiding team was going to arrest Piang when the suspect pulled out a .45 caliber pistol and opened fire.

“There was no more chance to arrest him peacefully and so the raiding team had to take action,” Galgo told The STAR.

Galgo, citing initial feedback from their anti-illegal drugs task force, said the policemen who raided Karim's house were to search for methamphetamine hydrochloride (shabu), but found a cache of military-type weapons instead.

Galgo said the firearms recovered from Karim include two M16s and two M14 assault rifles.

Galgo said investigators who accompanied Sebastian’s group found that one of the M-16 rifles bore the serial number of one of the more than 30 guns taken from SAF men who perished in Mamasapano on January 25, 2015.

The Mamasapano hostilities, which resulted in the deaths of 44 SAF men, 17 guerillas of the MILF and five villagers, was a setback in the peace process between the government and the MILF.

“The long arm of the law will surely reach all of these drug traffickers operating in Region 12 soon,” Galgo said.