http://www.news.com.au/national/nsw-act/cops-probe-infatuation-link-in-frenchman-smail-ayads-frenzied-attack-on-brit-traveller-mia-ayliffechung/news-story/12ac9a8619b8ff6ad23d155d20fffab7
90
9
Kate Kyriacou, Chris McMahon The Courier-Mail

THE owner of the north Queensland hostel where a British backpacker was brutally stabbed to death says her alleged killer did not show signs of religious extremism.

Frenchman Smail Ayad had spent time at the hostel a year ago, according to John Norris who ran Shelley’s Backpackers in Home Hill for 15 years.

Until we can positively rule out extremism, we will have to consider it - but no immediate evidence to suggest it. @CoPStewart #HomeHill — QPS Media Unit (@QPSmedia) August 24, 2016

“It just wasn’t him ... ,” Mr Norris told Channel Nine today.

Queensland Police this morning said they would have to consider extremism until it can be positively ruled out, but there was nothing to suggest it was a factor in Tuesday night’s attack.

Commissioner Ian Stewart said the second English tourist stabbed in the attack remained in a critical but stable condition, with significant injuries.

It is Mr Stewart’s understanding that the family of the two victims will travel to Australia.

EARLIER: Police are investigating whether a French backpacker had developed a romantic obsession with English tourist Mia Ayliffe-Chung, who he allegedly stabbed to death while shouting “Allahu akbar”.

A police body camera captured horrific footage of the bloody murder scene at a backpacker hostel in Home Hill in north Queensland, on Tuesday night. Frenchman Smail Ayad was filmed allegedly screaming in Arabic as he was arrested.

The Courier-Mail understands Ayad had to be subdued after injuring several officers in the watch-house last night.

Queensland Police Commissioner Ian Stewart says officers are preparing to formally interview Ayad today.

The frenzied stabbing left another English tourist, 30-year-old Tom Jackson, fighting for life and a third man, a 46-year-old Home Hill resident, with wounds to his legs.

The Australian Federal Police yesterday joined the investigation but it is understood detectives are now looking at whether Ayad had developed an obsession with the 21-year-old waitress and model.

Police were called to Shelley’s Backpackers in Home Hill, 100km south of Townsville, at 11.15pm on Tuesday.

About 30 people, many of them terrified backpackers, are believed to have witnessed the attack.

It is understood Mr Jackson suffered horrific injuries while attempting to save Ms Ayliffe-Chung. The third person, believed to be one of the hostel’s owners, was stabbed in the leg. The man’s dog was also killed.

Ms Ayliffe-Chung was on a world trip and had visited Morocco, India and Indonesia before arriving in Australia earlier this year.

She first settled in Surfers Paradise and was working as a waitress at raunchy Gold Coast nightclub The Bedroom, but had travelled north to work on a farm for three months to extend her visa.

She was staying at the Home Hill hostel, where 29-year-old Ayad was also living.

“The hardest thing (about) living my dream … missing the important home things,” the waitress wrote in July. “Graduations, people in hospital, funerals and birthdays.”

Ms Ayliffe-Chung appeared to have a close relationship with her mother and the pair often interacted on social media.

“You’ll be back in the blink of an eye,” her mother Rosie wrote in reply.

“And we’ll all still be doing the same old stuff for the most part … live your dream and know you’re in all our hearts.”

Friends of Ms Ayliffe-Chung had been following her north Queensland farming adventure with good humour, laughing at her being dirt-covered in photos and her daily descriptions of Queensland wildlife.

The young waitress was less than a week into the three months of required farm work. She had found work on a sugar cane farm, moving rocks from the path of a harvester.

“The first day of moving to the countryside from London, I took her for a walk in a field and she burst into tears because she couldn’t work out how to get out of the field without walking in the mud,” her mother teased on one of Ms Ayliffe-Chung’s posts about life in the outback.

“Day two done,” her daughter wrote on August 18. “6am till 2pm 86 days left. Saw one dead snake and 4 little spiders and 1 water rat the size of (pet cat) Leo. 98 sugar cane rows done. Tan status: Spanish or Italian maybe although it could be dirt we will see.”

The following day, she updated with: “Tan status, it’s confirmed, not dirt, it’s burn.”

Her mother replied: “Love you all around the world and back again … (Wish I’d never said that when you were little, look what happened!).”

Queensland Police Deputy Commissioner Steve Gollschewski said yesterday the investigation was still in its early stages.

“However, initial inquiries indicate that comments that may be construed (as) being of an extremist nature were made by the alleged offender,” he said.

Ayad arrived in Australia in March. Police said they were not aware of him making any local connections during his time in the country.

“Police are not searching for anyone else in relation to the incident at this time,” Mr Gollschewski said.

“This is not about race or religion. It is individual behaviour. Our community should feel reassured that the investigation is thorough and committed and is being fully supported by all responsible agencies.” Ayad was taken to hospital following his arrest and was still to be charged last night.

***************************

‘NO SIGN OF TERRORISM’ IN WOMAN’S STABBING

AUTHORITIES are confident there is no terrorism link to the Home Hill stabbing.

Australian Federal Police are believed to no longer be directly involved with the matter to be handled by Queensland Police as a murder probe.

French national Smail Ayad, 29, yelled “Allahu akbar”, or “God is Great” in Arabic, during his arrest but police suspect it was not an indication of any religious motivation. His arrest was recorded on police body cameras.

Ayad is alleged to have fatally stabbed English woman Mia Ayliffe-Chung, 21, and critically injured British backpacker Tom Jackson, 30, at a backpackers hostel in Home Hill on Tuesday night.

Police Minister Bill Byrne said police did not believe the incident was about race or religion.

One of Australia’s leading terrorism experts, Deakin University Professor Greg Barton, says “Allahu Akbar” has been so popularised, its use is not always a sign of a terror attack.

“(Saying) ‘Allahu akbar’ isn’t confirmation that it’s a religiously inspired attack,” he said. “He could have basically snapped, and in a moment of rage, said something.”

Professor Barton said after a terrorist incident, authorities were quick to check the internet history and phone records of the suspect.

Police sources told The Courier-Mail that while investigations are continuing, Ayad’s history so far indicated no terror links.

Prof Barton said internet search histories provide definitive evidence.

“Search histories are everything,” he said.

Mr Byrne said police also would investigate Ayad’s mental health or the possibility of drugs.

– Matthew Connors