http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3807325/We-deserved-truth-25-years-ago-Ben-Needham-s-mother-slams-mystery-witness-not-coming-forward-earlier-police-start-latest-dig-hunt-missing-toddler.html
90
9
Police investigating the disappearance of Ben Needham 25 years ago found dozens of bone fragments yesterday during a search of an olive grove near where he went missing.

Officers launched a fresh bid to discover what happened to the toddler after a new witness came forward to claim he may have been run over by a digger and buried.

Acting on this information, a team of officers from South Yorkshire Police travelled to the Greek holiday island of Kos to begin the search yesterday.

A digger could be seen moving piles of dirt to an adjacent field where officers and local volunteers began the painstaking task of sifting through the dusty earth for fragments of bone.

Ben Needham's furious mother, Kerry Needham (left) has told of her anger after it took 25 years for a mystery witness to come forward with information about her missing son (right)

The site has been searched before, when officers took cadaver dogs on to the land in 2012.

The new search will involve digging deeper and will focus on one area following information from the witness, who came forward following a TV appeal in Greece four months ago.

Ben was 21 months old when he went missing from a farmhouse which once sat on the site in July 1991. His mother Kerry, who had moved to the Greek island from Sheffield, always believed he was abducted.

This was the scene this morning as police started an examination of the site close in Kos

A police officer holding a plastic evidence bag kneels down to pick up an item from the ground

A police officer could be seen taking pictures of the ground as teams of investigators worked at the site

Then, earlier this month, the claims emerged that Ben could have been killed.

The witness alleged digger driver Konstantinos Barkas, who was working at the farmhouse, killed Ben.

Barkas died last year aged 62. His family have denied he had anything to do with the boy’s death and he was interviewed by police after Ben disappeared.

British officers and members of the Greek rescue team search land on the south eastern Greek island of Kos this morning

Police are search teams started their excavation this morning in a dusty olive grove in Kos

The dig comes after a witness came forward to suggest Ben may have been crushed to death by a digger near a farmhouse his grandparents were renovating at the time of the youngster's disappearance

Konstantinos Barkas, also known as Dino, was clearing land with an excavator close to where Ben was playing on the day he vanished and may be responsible for his death, a friend of the builder reportedly told police following a television appeal in May

But his friend reportedly saw the driver – known as Dino – ‘sweating and shaking’ after returning from the police station. Barkas allegedly told the friend ‘it’s possible’ there could have been a tragic accident.

Yesterday, the search team focused on the top left hand corner of the land, leading to speculation officers had received very specific information about the whereabouts of any evidence.

But the detective in charge of the hunt said it was too early to say if the bone fragments are linked to Ben because the land has been used for grazing animals for centuries.

Detectives are said to have carried out initial inquiries at the site, with experts testing soil and surveying the area with drones

Investigators on the Greek island where the 21-month-old vanished in 1991 have told Kerry Needham to 'prepare for the worst' as excavation work begins in Kos in the search for possible remains. This was the scene this morning ahead of the dig

Detective Inspector Jon Cousins said: ‘I have every reason to believe that the matters he [the witness] discussed are of great significance.

‘The search in 2012 was based on information known at the time ... the new information that has come forward – all of that put together – gives me a very strong reason to be here for the next week or so.’

He added: ‘I can’t say exactly how many bone fragments we’ve collected today but it’s quite a lot.’

A team of officers scour the ground for clues as they start the excavation process this morning

Ben's sister said her family was 'preparing for the worst' as police today begin a painstaking search of an olive grove close to where the toddler went missing

The detective said during the 2012 dig they discovered 481 bone fragments. A police spokesman said they were finding bones on the former farmland yesterday ‘every moment’.

Asked if he expected to find answers, Mr Cousins said he was ‘optimistic about the search taking place’, raising the prospect that Ben’s mother may finally learn what happened to her son.

Miss Needham is understood to be at a secret location close to Kos, where she is being updated by police. After years spent campaigning for fresh searches for her son, she is said to be in a ‘highly emotional state’ and is angry the witness took so long to come forward.

TIMELINE: A 25-YEAR SEARCH FOR THE TRUTH Here is a timeline of events charting the disappearance of Sheffield toddler Ben Needham on the Greek island of Kos 25 years ago. July 24 1991: Ben Needham vanishes while playing near the grounds of a farmhouse in the Iraklis region of Kos, which his family are renovating. His mother, Kerry Needham, and grandparents raise the alarm with local police and conduct a full search of the area. July 26 1991: Eyewitness reports claim a boy matching Ben's description was found at the local airport on the day he disappeared. That boy has never been traced. September 1991: The Needham family return to England due to illness but vow to continue the search. June 2003: The Metropolitan Police issue an image of what Ben might look like at age 12 - 14 years old. 2004: An anonymous businessman offers a reward of £500,000 for information leading to Ben's safe return. October 2010: Another public appeal is made by Ben's mother in the run-up to what would be his 21st birthday. May 2011: The BBC airs a programme called Missing 2011, which includes a piece on Ben's story and the campaign to find him. September 2011: Greek police on Kos officially re-open the case and grant the family a face-to-face meeting with the island's prosecutor. October 2012: South Yorkshire Police in Kos begin digging up mounds around the property where Ben went missing to look for his remains. December 2013: Ben's mother accuses then-Prime Minister David Cameron of not giving her case the same backing as he gave the parents of Madeline McCann. It comes as a dossier is produced containing reports from eight witnesses, none of who know each other, who all saw a boy possibly matching Ben's description with the same Greek family. December 2014: Lawyers representing Ben's family say they may take legal action to try to force the Government to make a decision about funding a new police investigation. January 2015: The Home Office agrees to fund a team of British detectives to help search for the toddler. March/April 2015: Three generations of Ben Needham's family travel to Greece to follow up a 'strong' lead that a man living there believes he may be the missing Brit due to having no photographs of himself under the age of two and no knowledge of where he was born. The man is later ruled out. May 2015: Ben's family make a fresh appeal on Greek television for information regarding the disappearance. May 2016: The Sun newspaper publishes a report that members of the police operation go on an 'eight-hour booze-up' in Kos during the latest stage of the investigation. September 2016: Ben's family are told to 'prepare for the worst' by detectives leading the investigation, amid the belief the 21-month-old was crushed to death by a digger - the driver of which died in 2015. It comes as police arrive in Kos to begin excavation work in the belief the boy's remains may be buried near the farmhouse The excavation, at what is now an olive grove, is expected to take up to 12 days, police say Digging began after a fresh line of inquiry suggested 21-month-old Ben may have been crushed to death by a digger near a farmhouse his grandparents were renovating

She told the Daily Mirror: ‘Not even in my worst nightmares has Ben ever been dead... until now.

'I’ve been waking up and finding my pillow wet with tears.

‘This witness told police we deserve the truth – but we deserved the truth 25 years ago. I feel like he’s only come forward because Dino is now dead.

‘How can you hold on to such a secret as serious as that and for all those years?’

Examination: Ben was 21 months old when he disappeared on 24 July 1991 during a family holiday

Ms Needham (pictured) said she was 'angry' when police told her about the tip-off and she now lives in fear that each day will bring the 'worst news possible'

Detective Inspector Jon Cousins is among the British officers at the scene in Kos, Greece

A new witness has claimed that 'Dino Barkas (pictured), who died of cancer last year, may have killed him in an accident with his JCB digger