http://www.business-standard.com/article/pti-stories/wounded-await-evacuation-on-day-three-of-aleppo-truce-116102200784_1.html
90
9
Wounded await evacuation on day three of Aleppo truce

Hundreds of wounded civilians were stranded in rebel-held areas of Syria's Aleppo today after the UN said security concerns had prevented evacuation convoys even as extended a ceasefire into a third day.



The unilateral "humanitarian pause" in the Syrian army's devastating Russian-backed assault on the opposition-controlled east of the city has largely held since it began on Thursday morning.



The army has said it is an opportunity for civilians and rebel fighters who lay down their arms to leave.



But so far there have been no organised evacuation convoys and only a handful of the 250,000 civilians still living in the rebel sector have left under their own steam.



An AFP photographer in the Bustan al-Qasr neighbourhood at one of the crossings over the front line the army has set up for evacuations said it was deserted today morning.



After three months of siege by the army and nearly four weeks of relentless air strikes by Syrian and Russian warplanes, trust in government assurances of safe passage is minimal.



Yesterday, the UN human rights council called for a special investigation into the violence in Aleppo in a resolution fiercely critical of Damascus.



The United Nations had hoped to use the ceasefire to evacuate seriously wounded people, and possibly deliver aid.



More than 2,000 civilians have been wounded since the army launched its offensive to drive the rebels out of the eastern districts they have held since 2012. Nearly 500 people have been killed.



But, yeserday, a UN spokesman said evacuations had been delayed because of security concerns.



"Medical evacuations of sick and injured could unfortunately not begin this morning as planned because the necessary conditions were not in place," said Jens Laerke of the United Nations humanitarian office (OCHA).



In the face of a mounting international outcry over Aleppo's plight, Moscow announced that the ceasefire, which was originally scheduled to last just eight hours, would be extended until 1600 GMT today.



But Laerke said that was not long enough and the United Nations has asked to consider a further extension until Monday evening.



David Swanson, an OCHA spokesman in the Turkish city of Gaziantep, said a four-day plan had been drawn up to begin with two days of evacuations to government-held areas of Aleppo, rebel-held Idlib province to the west or over the border to Turkey.

(This story has not been edited by Business Standard staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)

AFP