https://www.yahoo.com/news/tbh-second-debate-much-better-160751005.html
90
9
From ELLE

Well. That happened.

The second 2016 Presidential Debate took place last night and it was a stimulating hour of thoughtful points and rich discussion about the minutiae of national policy.

Just kidding, it was an episode of Jerry Springer as written by Edward Albee.

Here's actual footage of Hillary Clinton leaving the auditorium:

View photos

The candidates entertained questions from a room full of voters who, I can only assume, are undecided because they've just returned from a year-long voyage to space on Elon Musk's ship. Like, is The Martian a true story? Is that what happened? How could we leave Ken Bone stranded on Mars?! No Bone left behind!

View photos Photo credit: NBC.com More

Welcome back, Ken Bone: American Hero.

I tried to get the hashtag #ImWithBone started but it got awkward very quickly.

Anyway, Captain Kenneth Bone and these 49 other brave, undecided astronauts peppered the candidates with questions while Martha Raddatz and Anderson Cooper sassed their way through moderation like two parents on the last leg of a 12-hour trip to Disney World with a carful squabbling toddlers.

View photos

It was a whole scene.

That grimace of incredulity didn't leave Martha Raddatz's face for a full hour. Meanwhile, Anderson Cooper was 100 percent done from the jump. It's like he suddenly realized that he was too rich and too famous for literally everything that was happening around him all at once.

View photos

Anderson Cooper was the kind of done you get when your work friend drags you to the hot new bar in the city for happy hour and, of course, there's a line 30 deep and they're charging $17 for a martini and you're like "Dammit, Sheila, no offense but this is really threatening my chi right now. I told you we should have just gone to the Applebee's on the Interstate. Why do you always have to be so fancy?!"

It was like that.

Anyway, if you weren't one of the undecided voters on the mission to Mars (Code name: ET Phone Bone) you didn't really need to actually listen to the debate. In fact it was probably better if you didn't.

View photos Photo credit: Chip Somodevilla/Getty More