http://www.news.com.au/national/queensland/police-allege-men-argued-in-street-before-attack/news-story/930727c7cb396041d9a4c16f5462d908
90
9
Kate McKenna, Thomas Chamberlin, Madura McCormack The Courier-Mail

THE man accused of the daylight one-punch attack that killed Brisbane dad Timothy Lang has fronted court.

Wayne Andrew Hearn, 38, appeared in the Brisbane Magistrates Court this morning charged with unlawful striking causing death.

Before being led out of the prisoner’s dock, he smiled and made gestures to the public gallery.

Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Legal Service solicitor Lyle Parker asked for the matter to be adjourned to committal call-over.

There was no application for bail.

Police allege Mr Lang was walking along Melbourne Street, South Brisbane, about 10.15am on Saturday when he “crossed paths” with Hearn and an argument broke out.

Mr Lang, 48, was allegedly punched to the head and fell, unconscious, to the footpath.

He was taken to the Princess Alexandra Hospital in a critical condition but died on Monday afternoon.

Police believe the two men knew each other.

The matter will return on October 31.

OVERNIGHT

A 38-YEAR-OLD man was in police custody last night, charged with the one-punch death of Brisbane father Timothy Lang.

Hours after police released a photo of the alleged suspect and said they would like to speak to him in relation to the ­alleged assault, detectives ­arrested a man at Redcliffe, north of Brisbane.

The man was taken to the Dutton Park Watchhouse, where he remained overnight.

The Courier-Mail understands police yesterday raided several properties in their search.

Mr Lang, 48, is said to have known his alleged attacker but was not friends with him, police believe.

Mr Lang was walking along Melbourne St at South Brisbane about 10.15am on Saturday when an argument allegedly broke out between him and another man.

Police allege Mr Lang received a punch to the head and fell to the ground, hitting his head.

He was rushed to hospital in a critical condition, and died on Monday.

“The pair have exchanged words in passing and one man has then turned and struck the victim on the head with his fist,” police reported.

“The 48-year-old man was transported to the Princess Alexandra Hospital in a critical condition, (where he) later died of his injuries.”

A man, 38, was last night charged with unlawful striking causing death.

He is expected to appear in court today.