http://nation.com.pk/islamabad/11-Sep-2016/10-afghans-among-38-suspects-arrested
90
9
Islamabad - Police along with Pakistan Rangers and other security agencies yesterday carried out a search operation in various areas of Police Station Sabzi Mandi.



During the operation, the police have arrested some 38 suspects including 10 Afghan nationals and shifted them to police station for interrogation, informed a police spokesman yesterday.



According to him, officers/officials of Islamabad police, Pakistan Rangers and other security agencies conducted search operation in various areas controlled by PS Sabzi Mandi.

The LEAs have checked a large number of houses and questioned the dwellers.

He said the police took 38 suspects into custody and moved them to police station where they were being grilled.

Of 38 suspects, 10 are Afghan nationals, he informed.



Inspector General of Islamabad Police Tariq Masood Yasin and SSP Sajid Kiyani said that the purpose of this search operation is to ensure high vigilance in the city and every effort would be made to ensure protection of lives and prosperities of citizens.



The IGP also appealed to the passengers who are travelling to their native town through private public transport to lodge their complaints on the police helpline 15 or 1915 in case of any complaint about the drivers and conductors.

He said strict action would be taken against those transporters who are found involved in fleecing the passengers or misbehaving with them.



Meanwhile, Rawalpindi police have netted five women found involved in immoral activities at Farooq-e-Azam Road within limits of Police Station (PS) Sadiqabad.



A case has been registered against the accused.

The arrested ladies were later produced in a court of law where the judge sent them to Adiala Jail on judicial remand.



Meanwhile, health experts yesterday advised citizens to take special preventive measures to protect from carrying Crimean Congo hemorrhagic fever (CCHF).



They said healthcare workers caring for patients with suspected or confirmed Congo virus, or handling specimens from them, should implement standard infection control precautions.

These include basic hand hygiene, use of personal protective equipment, safe injection practices and safe burial practices.



Dr Arif Majeed said reducing the risk of tick-to-human transmission people should wear protective clothing like long sleeves or long trousers and wear light coloured clothing to allow easy detection of ticks on the clothes.



He said people should use approved chemicals intended to kill ticks on clothing, use approved repellent on the skin and clothing, regularly examine clothing and skin for ticks, if found, remove them and avoid areas where ticks are abundant and seasons when they are most active.



Dr Arif said in order to reduce the risk of animal-to-human transmission, people should wear gloves and other protective clothing while handling animals or their tissues in endemic areas, notably during slaughtering, butchering and culling procedures in slaughter houses or at home.



He added to reduce the risk of human-to-human transmission in the community, people should avoid close physical contact with CCHF-infected people, wear gloves and protective equipment when taking care of ill people and wash hands regularly after caring for or visiting sick people.

