http://dev.thedailystar.net/frontpage/fire-death-toll-29-1284364
90
9
Four more bodies were pulled out of the rubble of Tampaco Foils Ltd factory in Tongi yesterday, raising the death toll from Saturday's inferno to 29.

Around 5:30pm, fire fighters and rescue workers pushed hard to douse the flame completely and looked for survivors under the debris of the four-storey building in the BSCIC industrial area.

The four bodies were found in the eastern part of the collapsed building around 6:30pm, said SM Alam, deputy commissioner of Gazipur.

Identity of the victims could not be known immediately.

Nine factory workers are still missing, Executive Magistrate Fatematuz Zohara told this newspaper, adding that family members registered their names as missing.





Earlier in the day, Ripon Das, a survivor of the fire, died from burn injuries at Dhaka Medical College Hospital.

On Saturday, 24 bodies were recovered after the fire broke out at the packaging factory around 6:00am, minutes before the workers were about to change shifts.

Fire fighters and rescue workers had another tough day yesterday, as 22 fire fighting units battled to extinguish the blaze completely.

They tried to move into the interior of the building. But the attempt was frustrated by thick smoke and broken chunks of concrete.

A fresh fire broke out in the building's western part around 11:00am, forcing rescuers and volunteers to get out of the building.

Talking to reporters in the afternoon, Lt Col Mohammad Mosharraf Hossain, director of Fire Service and Civil Defence, said the fire was largely brought under control.

The rescuers, however, could not search the entire 40-year-old building as it had become risky because of large cracks.

Lt Col Mohammad Rashidul Hasan, director of Inter Services Public Relations (ISPR), told this newspaper around 10:00pm that an assessment team of army personnel had visited the spot.

The team will assess the damage and determine whether there is any need for engaging army personnel in the rescue operation.

“However, no decision on army deployment has been taken yet,” he added.





It was yet to be ascertained what caused the inferno as fire fighters couldn't advance into the building's interior.

MA Mannan, chief inspector of boilers, told reporters on Saturday that an inspector, who had visited the site, found no damage to the two boilers of the packaging factory.

However, senior officials of the fire service department had cited the explosion of a boiler as the cause of fire.

Kazi Reazul Hoque, chairman of National Human Rights Commission, visited the spot yesterday, and talked to the families of the deceased and the missing ones.

He said the owners cannot avoid their responsibilities.

“The owners started the business 40 years ago and expanded it. But they may not have put in place necessary infrastructure.

“Besides, we have to see whether the government agencies tasked with ensuring workplace safety have performed their duties properly,” Reazul said, referring to the responsibilities of boiler and factory inspectors.

He also said the commission would form a committee to see whether the probe bodies were carrying out their investigations properly.

Visiting the spot in the afternoon, noted jurist Dr Kamal Hossain demanded punishment to the persons responsible for the incident.

He said they would seek court directives regarding the responsibilities of the persons concerned as well as compensations for the victims.

Dr Kamal mentioned that the High Court had issued such directives in the cases of Tazreen Fire and Rana Plaza building collapse.

Industries Minister Amir Hossain Amu, who went to the spot in the morning, said action would be taken against those responsible for the incident.

He assured that the government would provide all necessary assistance to the victims' families.

The industries ministry yesterday formed a five-member committee, headed by Additional Secretary Dabirul Islam, to investigate the fire incident. It was asked to submit a report within 15 working days.

On Saturday, four committees were formed to probe the incident.

Meanwhile, different organisations have demanded stern action against the people responsible for the incident and proper compensation for the victims.