http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3777274/Neighbour-reveals-Tromp-family-renovations-triggered-bizarre-disappearance.html
90
9
Baffled neighbours say the stress of major renovations on the Tromp family home may have triggered their bizarre disappearance.

Runaway father Mark Tromp and his wife Jacoba had been renovating their idyllic farmhouse in Silvan, east of Melbourne, for two months before they fled a week ago with their three children.

Neighbour Mark Chapman, who works closely with the family as a fellow berry farmer, said they had been fitting out a new kitchen and turning a garage into a living space.

Mark Chapman, a neighbouring berry farmer, said the family were undergoing serious renovations to their house and speculated it could have been a factor in the breakdown

Mr Chapman told Daily Mail Australia the renovations could have been a factor in the family's breakdown.

There is still no explanation as to why Mark, Jacoba and their three children Mitchell, 25, Riana, 29, and Ella, 22, abandoned their home on August 29 and headed to NSW, panicked and with no apparent destination in mind.

There is speculation documents were everywhere in the house when police examined the house last week because Mrs Tromp had been looking for documents for a quality assurance audit.

The family left everything at home including all mobile phones, tablets, passports and credit cards.

Riana, Mark, Jacoba, Mitchell and Ella fled their family home on August 29 after Mr Tromp started to fear their lives were in danger

The Tromp family home appeared to be abandoned on Wednesday after Mr Tromp said he hoped to reunite with his wife and children in the coming days

Mark Chapman is a neighbouring fourth-generation berry farmer who works with the Tromps as part of a group who sell the area’s products to Coles and Woolies

Keys were found in the ignitions of their cars and the house was unlocked.

Their son Mitchell has told baffled neighbours 'I just don't know what happened' after news of their family's disappearance emerged.

'It’s just so strange for a pretty straight family and everyone affected,’ Mr Chapman said.

Mr Chapman described the father as a 'workaholic' who was very devoted to his the earthmoving business and red-currant farm.

His wife was known by neighbours as someone who would pop around, have a cup of coffee and say hello.

She had been 'very focused' on managing the red currant farm and was passionate about promoting the fruit, making it into jams and sauces.

The Tromp family had been fitting out a new kitchen and turning a garage into a living space for two months before they disappeared last week

Ella Tromp (left), 22, has been charged with stealing a car after her 'paranoid' father Mark (right) encouraged her family to flee their Victorian home

Riana Tromp (left) and her mother Jacoba (right) are being treated in a mental health facility in Goulburn

Mitchell Tromp and his sister Ella have returned to their home at Silvan, where they addressed media on Sunday morning

The pressure of cranking up the farm by fertilising and starting to irrigate was just about to heap itself upon the family. The farm was dormant through winter with the main picking season being about December.

‘As far as the farm goes it’s actually a quiet time of the year - now’s when the pressure starts (the beginning of Spring),' Mr Chapman said.

Neighbours are already pitching in to help with the farming season about to enter a critical time and Coby and Riana Tromp still in hospital.

Mr Chapman said he would sit down with Mitchell and work out what needs to be done.

‘Things need to be done on the farm and if they aren’t done their crop will fail,’ he said. 'If it was the pressure of running two business that got them perhaps we can make the farming business easier for them.’

The family need to start fertilising and starting to irrigate.

The pressure of cranking up the 18-acre berry farm by fertilising and starting to irrigate was just about to heap itself upon the Tromp family

Mr Tromp and his children left the home unlocked when they fled on August 29. They had been renovating their home for two months

Mr Chapman’s father, Gordon, said another next door neighbour, Roger, had been looking after Ella and Mitch since they returned home.

The family fled their home for NSW after Mr Tromp feared someone was after them.

The three adult children left their parents in NSW a day after they abandoned their Victorian home.

Mitchell and Ella eventually headed back to the farm separately, while Riana was found 'catatonic' in the back of a ute in Goulburn in NSW.

Mrs Tromp was found in Yass Hospital in an emotionally poor state. She was later moved to Goulburn Hospital, where her and Riana remain.