http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/dementia-sufferer-86-who-weighed-9022204
90
9
Pensioner Ivy Atkin died following 'serious and deeply concerning issues' at a care home

An ageing dementia sufferer who was found dead weighing just four stone in a urine-soaked bed died as a result of appalling negligence at a care home, an inquest has heard.

Tragic Ivy Atkin weighed just 3st 12lbs and had a rotting bed sore when she was found dead in her own urine.

The 86-year-old, who had a body mass index of half the normal amount for a healthy adult, died 48 days after she moved into Autumn Grange Care Home , Nottingham.

An inquest at Nottingham Coroner's Court heard the retired dressmaker's body had become "emaciated" during her stay at the care home.

Pathologist Professor Guy Rutty said: "Mrs Atkin's body was emaciated.

She had a dramatic decrease in body mass during the time from her admission to Autumn Grange to her death which had been a significant factor in her death.

"In my opinion, if she had gone out in the same medical condition as she had gone in, she would not have been expected to die as she did from the conditions she did on November 22."

Nottingham Post/SWNS Ivy was found dead at the Autumn Grange Care Home

Prior to her death, Mrs Atkin was left skeletal, severely dehydrated and lying on a bed soaked in urine and with a large, open, pressure sore at the base of her back.

Medical records showed she had lost one-and-a-half stone in the last ten weeks of her life.

Her cause of death was given as pneumonia, with an underlying cause of debilitation and low BMI, contributed to by dementia.

Assistant coroner Stephanie Haskey said: "There were serious and deeply concerning issues raised in the week before she died, triggered by a whistle-blower from the staff whose prompt actions I formally commend.

"As a result of this there was a detailed and intensive investigation into the last few months of her life."

Linda Hirst, an inspector with the Care Quality Commission (CQC), said there were "some really serious concerns" about the care home suggesting a "significant risk to patients".

Giving evidence, she described fears around staffing, intervention where residents were abusing each other, neglectful care, discrimination, a dirty kitchen, inadequate nutrition, non-maintenance of equipment or records, use of incorrect equipment to handle people and residents wearing each other's clothes.

Concerns were also raised about unexplained bruising, delays in assessment of injuries, management of pressure ulcers and incontinence need.

There were also four allegations of residents lying in urine and staff not closing curtains when helping with personal care.

She added that residents were found to be at risk and were moved out of the home within days.

Ms Haskey said there had been a delay between a CQC inspection of the home in September 2012 and publication of its report in November of the same year.

She said: "There's a marked 'all is well'. That's patently not true, all is not well."

She added that there had been no registered manager at the home around the time of Mrs Atkin's death and that she was "somewhat surprised that no more rigorous action was taken by the CQC in the circumstances".

Detective Superintendent Rob Griffin, head of public protection for Nottinghamshire Police, said Operation Hoatzin was launched into concerns over the level of care at Autumn Grange.

As a result of the two-year probe, director Yousaf Khan, 47, became the first person in Britain to be jailed for corporate manslaughter at a care home.

In February this year he was sentenced to three years and two months in prison for manslaughter by gross negligence at Nottingham Crown Court.

His company, Sherwood Rise Ltd, was fined £300,000 plus £41,568.63 costs.

The inquest continues.