http://nation.com.pk/newspaper-picks/27-Sep-2016/senators-one-against-india
90
9
ISLAMABAD - The Senate yesterday passed a unanimous resolution against Indian brutalities in Kashmir and urged the United Nations to hold an independent probe into the Uri incident.

The resolution was passed amid a heated debate on the present state of relations between Pakistan and India, especially after the recent remarks by India Prime Minster Narendra Modi against Pakistan.

The lawmakers demanded a joint sitting of the parliament and an all-party conference over the issue of Indian hostile approach.

The Senate chairman also called a meeting of the Whole Committee of the Senate on Thursday to discuss all these issues related to Indian moves.

The house in the resolution called the Kashmiris’ independence movement a popular, spontaneous, indigenous and a widespread uprising of the oppressed people of Jammu and Kashmir.

“The Senate expresses its strong solidarity with the Kashmiri people for valiantly resisting the brute repression of the Indian occupation forces and acknowledges that they are writing a glorious chapter in the annals of historical freedom movements through their determination, will and spirit of sacrifice," the resolution read.

It strongly condemned the India's use of bullets and pellets, saying: “They (Indian forces) are killing, maiming and wounding a whole new generation of unarmed boys and girls, which is a crime against humanity.

"The house reiterates that the only way out is to grant the people of Jammu and Kashmir their inalienable right of self-determination in accordance with the relevant United Nations' Resolutions, to which India and Pakistan are signatory.”

The house also urged the international community to immediately take notice of the grave human rights violations in the occupied Valley to prevent India from war hysteria to distract attention from India's crimes against humanity in IOK.

The Senate expressed its resolve that if the Indian government dared embark on any military adventure against Pakistan, the people, the government and the armed forces of Pakistan would stand united as one to face and defeat any form of aggression with all the might of their command.

PPP Senator Sherry Rehman said Pakistan missed the opportunity in the UN and added that the PM failed to present his point of view at this forum properly.

Adviser to Prime Minister on Foreign Affairs Sartaj Aziz concluded the debate, saying that the remarks of Indian Prime Minister on Balochistan and GB had vindicated Pakistan's stance that India was involved in the internal affairs of Pakistan.

"We condemn and rebut these negative and provoking statements of Indian PM," he said, adding that the international community could not be deceived through such statements.

He went on: “These statements are violations to the Charter of UN. We are preparing a dossier in this connection that would be sent to the UN. There was no parallel between the Balochistan and IOK. All organizations and international bodies have agreed to the stance of Pakistan on IOK during PM's recent visit to US.”

"Modi wanted India hegemony over region and wanted to isolate Pakistan but this would not happen." He said that Pakistan was ready for investigations into Uri attack but it should be held through some international body. We don't accept Indian stance regarding the attack and will seek evidence from it, "the adviser added.

Also, the house passed a resolution unanimously against Altaf Hussain’s anti-Pakistan remarks and his speech that provoked his workers to unleash an attack on the media in Karachi on August 22.

The house also called upon the government to take strict action against him and others for violating the law of the land, attacking media houses and creating law and order situation in the country. The lawmakers of MQM also supported the resolution.