http://www.news.com.au/national/nsw-act/courts-law/solomon-jenbare-found-guilty-of-manslaughter/news-story/6ab59c1091324f0b4c1331ec79bb533b
90
9
THE mother of a woman who was fatally stabbed by her husband screamed, “Where’s the justice, Australia?” after a Supreme Court jury found him not guilty of murder.

Solomon Jenbare had admitted killing Wubanchi Asefaw, 25, during an argument in the couple’s Auburn unit, in Sydney’s west, but denied it was murder because he was so mentally impaired through years of torture in Africa it reduced his culpability from murder to manslaughter.

The jury took just two hours to return with the verdict. When they did, Ms Asefaw’s mother Asnaku Kebede Eshete screamed, “He’s the murderer, he’s the murderer!” in Amharic, an Ethiopian dialect.

Ms Asefaw came to Australia from Ethiopia about a decade ago to marry Jenbare, who is also from there, but has lived in Australia since 1999.

According to a translator, she said he “was a killer, it’s not fair, it’s not fair”, as she was being led out of court by her son and other supporters.

“My daughter is gone forever, she’s dead.”

She did not believe his claims of mental impairment.

“Is this the justice system in Australia?” she asked. “Where is the justice in Australia?”

Ms Eshete said the verdict would send a “message” to other criminals that they could get away with killing someone.

“How is this justice? How can he kill an innocent woman and get manslaughter?”

The interpreter said she felt the verdict was almost as bad as the day she heard her daughter was dead, and wanted to know how the jury members would feel if they were in her position.

“This is the worst day of my life,” she said.

Jenbare will be sentenced next Monday.

Yesterday, it emerged the 52-year-old discovered his wife was dead after he saw it written on a piece of paper as he was being interrogated by detectives.

His barrister Belinda Rigg asked Detective Constable Peter Phillp if that moment was the first he knew his wife had died.

“He asked if his wife was dead,” Det Const. Phillp told her.

He confirmed Ms Asefaw had died and Jenbare responded by crying and showing obvious “distress” for the next 10 minutes, the jury heard.

An expert witness called by the defence, Dr Olav Nielssen, said Jenbare told him he “didn’t intend” for his wife to die and was “disturbed” by it.

He told Dr Nielssen the couple were arguing over a phone call to her nephew, back in Ethiopia, who she wanted to marry in order for him to be allowed entry to Australia.

“He said he told her he wouldn’t allow her to do it because he was a Christian and couldn’t make a false declaration.”

He told Dr Nielssen his wife said: “It’s none of your business, I’ll do it [whether] you like it or not.”

Jenbare had gone to her, in another room, holding a kitchen knife in his hand. Dr Nielssen said Jenbare told him when Ms Asefaw saw the knife she immediately began fighting him for it.

“She jumped over me and tried to grab the knife … was pushing and pulling,” Dr Nielssen said Jenbare told him.

But the accused couldn’t say what happened next.

“He doesn’t remember the next one or two minutes or how she left.”

He told the doctor: “[I] don’t remember how she got the stabs, actually I don’t remember a lot of things.”

The next thing he knew he was outside asking people to call 000 for help. Ms Asefaw was found down the road after staggering, bleeding, away from the unit and calling for help.

She was pronounced dead in hospital soon after.

Dr Nielssen asked him if he was worried about his wife leaving him, but Jenbare denied he was.

He told the court it was his opinion that Jenbare was suffering PTSD and a depressive, psychiatric illness.

Asked by Ms Rigg if that meant he had an abnormality of the mind that affected his “perception of events” he answered “ yes”.

“He met the criteria for having a depressive illness and probably a psychiatric illness,” he said.

In cross examination, Crown prosecutor Paul Lynch asked him about the delusional beliefs Jenbare had.

“It’s not uncommon for people to say they are propelled to act by God, the devil or the CIA to do what they did?”

But Dr Nielssen said those symptoms were “quite rare”.

Last week, the trial heard the couple were arguing in their unit when Ms Asefaw was fatally stabbed.

In his opening address Mr Lynch said: “Shortly before midnight on April 8, 2014 during some sort of domestic dispute [and] in course of it he armed himself with a kitchen knife and he stabbed his wife seven or eight times. Some were fairly superficial, but others were anything but.”

The wounds were horrific.

“Among them were gaping wounds to the right side of her neck, a similar gaping wound to the left part of her face down to her neck and wounds to her back and body.”

The worst of them were 17cm long and cut 8cm “deep into the tissue of deceased”.

Rigg SC said it would be up to the jury to assess whether her client was substantially impaired enough, but told them they would hear evidence from four psychologists who would testify as to Jenbare’s mental state at the time of his wife’s death.

She said an MRI revealed he had brain injuries caused by the torture he’d endured, above the psychological toll it had taken.

andrew.koubaridis@news.com.au