http://uk.onlinenigeria.com/latest-additions/197109-rick-thorburn-carried-schoolgirl-tiahleigh-palmer-s-coffin-a-year-before-foster-father-was-charged-with-her-murder.html
90
9
Thorburn pictured in November as the grieving pallbearer at the funeral

Police allege he killed the girl to protect his son Trent, charged with incest

Her foster father Rick Thorburn has been charged with the girl's murder

The 12-year-old girl's foster family were taken into custody on Tuesday

By Lucy Mae Beers and Belinda Grant Geary For Daily Mail Australia

Published: 18:17 EST, 20 September 2016 | Updated: 18:20 EST, 20 September 2016

Almost a year after he was pictured as the grieving pallbearer at her funeral in front of hundreds of mourners, Rick Thorburn was charged with Tiahleigh Palmer's murder.

Thorburn, 56, allegedly took the 12-year-old's life after finding out his son Trent, 19, had been sexually assaulting her during the ten months she had been in the foster family's care and was charged with with murder and interfering with a corpse on Tuesday.

Tiahleigh's badly decomposed body was discovered in the Pimpama River in south-east Queensland on November 5, a week after she vanished from Marsden State High School.

Thorburn donned a shirt in Tiahleigh's favourite colour purple and joined the 600 mourners, including the child's distraught parents, at the Te Rau Oriwa Brisbane Anglican Maori Mission on November 14 as police desperately searched for her killer.

Scroll for video

Rick Thorburn (pictured, left) was the pallbearer at Tiahleigh Palmer's funeral, a year before he was charged with her murder

Rick Thorburn (pictured), a former interstate truck driver, collapsed when he was charged with murder and interfering with a corpse on Tuesday afternoon

The schoolgirl was farewelled with a procession of Maori hakas and a performance by her dance troop from the Fitness and Dance Logan West.

Thorburn was one of six pallbearers in purple t-shirts, emblazoned with 'RIP Tiahleigh'.

The former long-haul truck driver turned food truck owner was charged with murder and interfering with a corpse at Beenleigh Watch House on Tuesday following a highly publicised 11-month-long investigation into the schoolgirl's death.

After he was charged, Thorburn collapsed and was rushed in hospital where he was in stable condition ahead of an expected court appearance on Wednesday morning.

Thorburn is believed to have feared his son could be convicted under the Queensland Criminal Code, which states a sexual relationship between siblings - including foster, step or de facto circumstances - is considered incest, which can attract a life sentence, the Courier Mail reported.

Trent Thorburn, a metal fabrication apprentice and classic car builder, was charged with incest, attempting to pervert the course of justice and two counts of perjury.

His older brother Joshua, 20, has been charged with perverting the course of justice and perjury, along with his mother Julene, who is believed to be providing evidence to police about her husband's involvement in the case.

Thorburn was one of six pallbearers in purple t-shirts, emblazoned with 'RIP Tiahleigh'

Rick Thorburn (left), his wife Julene (middle right) and two sons, Josh (middle left) and Trent (right) have been charged with a string of offences in relation to the death of Tiahleigh Palmer

Tiahleigh's (pictured) naked body was found decomposing along the banks of the Pimpana River 40 minutes from where Thorburn was allegedly last seen dropping her at school

Trent Thorburn, a metal fabrication apprentice and classic car builder, was charged with incest, attempting to pervert the course of justice and two counts of perjury

His older brother Joshua (pictured) has been charged with perverting the course of justice and perjury, along with his mother Julene

Julene Thorburn (left), the foster mother of murdered schoolgirl Tiahleigh Palmer, is providing evidence to police on her husband (right) Rick's alleged involvement in the 12-year-old's death

Julene Thorburn (pictured) was not initially charged when she was arrested alongside her husband and two sons but was charged later that night with perjury and perverting justice

Ms Thorburn is providing evidence to police about the investigation into the death of her foster daughter, Tiahleigh Palmer (pictured left and right)

According to the Courier Mail, the perjury charges relate to the family providing false testimony to the Crime and Corruption Commission during a secret hearing relating to Tiahleigh's death earlier this year.

Detective Inspector Damien Hansen said Ms Thorburn and her two children were expected to be 'key witnesses' in the murder trial and confirmed she was 'co-operating' with police as they continued their investigation.

'She hasn't been charged with anything, she is co-operating with us at this stage,' he said after the family were remanded in custody at the Beenleigh Watch House, south of Brisbane.

He would not confirm if Ms Thorburn was seeking the $250,000 reward or immunity from prosecution in exchange for information leading to the prosecution of Tialeigh's killer, but did not exclude it from possibility.

'We will work that out,' Inspector Hansen said.

Mr Thorburn was taken to the Princess Alexandra Hospital in a stable condition after losing consciousness at the Beenleigh Watch House once charges were laid against him on Tuesday afternoon.

He was denied bail and has reportedly not disclosed anything to detectives investigating the alleged murder, which rocked the Logan community and resulted in a review that lead to a change in reforms for children who go missing from out-of-home care.

Mr Thorburn was taken to the Princess Alexandra Hospital in a stable condition after losing consciousness at the Beenleigh Watch House once charges were laid against him on Tuesday afternoon

He was denied bail and has reportedly not disclosed anything to detectives investigating the alleged murder

Tiahleigh's murder rocked mourners from the Logan community and resulted in a review that lead to a change in reforms for children who go missing from out-of-home care

Mourners laid flowers outside Marsden State School (pictured) where Tiahleigh was last seen

Inspector Hansen said Mr Thornburn did have a blue card, a requirement under Queensland law if you want to provide foster care or work with children, when Tiahleigh was sent to them but could not confirm if it was still valid.

It has also not been confirmed how many children have been under Mr Thorburn's supervision during his time as a registered foster carer.

The dramatic arrest comes 11 months after Tiahleigh's naked and decomposing body was found by fishermen dumped by the banks of the Pimpana River, 40 minutes from where she was last seen with Mr Thorburn at Marsden State School.

She was gone for six days before she was registered missing by police and an alert was issued about her disappearance.

The dramatic arrest comes 11 months after Tiahleigh's naked and decomposing body was found by fishermen dumped the banks of the Pimpana River (pictured)

She was gone for six days before she was registered as missing by police and an alert was issued about her disappearance

Tiahleigh' mother Cyndi Palmer spearheaded an online campaign to bring her daughter's killers to justice, but has asked for privacy since Tiahleigh's foster family were taken into custody

The schoolgirl's biological mother Cyndi Palmer spearheaded an online campaign to bring her daughter's killers to justice, but has asked for privacy since Tiahleigh's foster family were taken into custody.

'This has been very traumatic for her, she has been asked to be left alone, it has affected her greatly and affected the family,' Inspector Hanson said.

She was pictured sobbing at her daughter's funeral, where mourners donned purple and released hundreds of balloons at the end of the service.

Mr Thorburn was selected to be a pallbearer at the young girl's memorial and wept as he carried her body from the funeral home.

'He cried big crocodile tears, bordered on hysterics and entrenched himself in the grief, her friends and events,' a source close to the family told Daily Mail Australia.

Mr Thorburn (second left) was selected to be a pallbearer at the young girl's memorial service and wept as he carried her body from the funeral home

Mr Thorburn was denied bail and has reportedly not disclosed anything to detectives investigating the alleged murder

Search crews are pictured scouring bushland during the investigation last year

Last week, a blue Ford XR6 sedan was taken by Queensland Police for forensic examination

Police followed up with more than 3,500 separate lines of enquiry during the investigation, which resulted in detectives seizing Mr Thorburn's car last week.

The blue 2009 Ford XR6 sedan was forensically examined, with police revealing it was the foster carer's vehicle ahead of his arrest on Tuesday.

Mr Thorburn and his son Trent will appear in Beenleigh Magistrates Court on Wednesday.

Ms Thorburn and her eldest son Joshua are expected to appear in the same court house on October 10.