https://www.yahoo.com/news/positive-steps-mexico-missing-student-case-un-224458882.html
90
9
The representative for Mexico of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Jan Jarab (C) poses with family members and relatives of missing students after a meeting at the Raul Isidro Burgos rural school in Ayotzinapa, Guerrero state, Mexico (AFP Photo/Alfredo Estrella)

Ayotzinapa (Mexico) (AFP) - A UN human rights official met Wednesday with parents of 43 Mexican students missing since 2014 and praised the much-criticized authorities for looking into new lines of investigation in the unsolved case.

Jan Jarab, the representative in Mexico of the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, met with the distraught families at the students' teacher training college in Ayotzinapa, Guerrero state.

His visit came days before the second anniversary of the tragedy, which took place in the nearby city of Iguala.

Dozens of students had traveled there to hijack buses for a protest in Mexico City, a common practice in their radical left-wing school, when they came under fire from local police.

The authorities said months later that the officers handed 43 students to a drug cartel, which killed them, incinerated their bodies at a garbage dump and tossed the remains in a river.

But independent experts from the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights issued two damning reports rejecting the government's conclusion, saying such a big fire was not scientifically possible.

Last week, deputy attorney general for human rights Eber Betanzos told AFP that the authorities will conduct new searches in other locations using laser scanning technology. They are also investigating the possible role of other local police departments in the disappearance.

"We have seen in recent weeks some indications that they are already investigating other leads," Jarab told reporters.

"It seems like a positive thing to me, although we will obviously follow the process," he said after his meeting with the families in the impoverished southern state of Guerrero.

President Enrique Pena Nieto's handling of the Ayotzinapa case has angered the students' parents and many others in Mexico.

Hilda Rivera, mother of a missing student, told AFP before the meeting with Jarab that Attorney General Arely Gomez has given them "the runaround" about the case, without showing progress in the investigation.

Erika Guevara-Rosas, Americas director at Amnesty International, said the Ayotzinapa case shows that Pena Nieto's administration "will stop at nothing to cover up human rights violations taking place under their watch in Mexico."

"From failing to stop the attack against the students, to preventing international efforts to uncover the truth, to brushing off any complaints over the way this investigation has been handled, authorities in Mexico have done all they can to obstruct justice and protect their image," Guevara-Rosas said in a statement.

Jarab gave his backing to legislation introduced in Congress aimed at combatting the large number of disappearances in Mexico.

"There are a lot of missing people and the Ayotzinapa case made it known," he said.

The case has caused international outrage, putting a spotlight on the country's high number of disappearances, with some 28,000 people reported missing since the government launched a drug war in 2006