http://www.news.com.au/world/bali-cop-murder-sara-connor-questioned-over-her-position-and-if-she-saw-officer-punched/news-story/2a7ed0d21f00e46d9534b0210e1def7b
90
9
Video

Image Australian Sara Connor police interview 1:10 Sara Connor pictured at Denpasar Police Station today before being interviewed by police.

CINDY WOCKNER and KOMANG ERVIANI News Corp Australia Network

AUSTRALIAN woman Sara Connor has been questioned again by police about her memory of the night a Bali police officer was killed.

For about two hours on Monday Connor was interrogated about her physical position when her British boyfriend David Taylor was fighting with the officer on the beach and also whether she saw Taylor punching the victim.

The new round of questioning comes as prosecutors have asked police to conduct more inquiries in order to complete a brief of evidence against the couple in relation to the August 17 death of police officer Wayan Sudarsa on a Kuta beach.

Connor’s lawyer Erwin Siregar says there is not enough evidence to charge the Byron Bay mum with murder or assault or beating of the officer.

Police allege that both Connor and Taylor were involved in the murder attack on Sudarsa after a fight broke out amid accusations that the officer had stolen Connor’s handbag on the beach.

But Connor maintains that she played no role in killing the officer and that she was trying to protect the victim by breaking up a fight between her boyfriend and the officer.

POSITION AND PUNCHES

Mr Siregar said Connor was questioned on Monday about two topics — her position during the fight between Taylor and the officer and whether she saw her boyfriend punching the victim.

He said that Connor told police she was about 50 metres away when the fight occurred, looking for her handbag.

When she neared the two she saw Taylor holding something but but didn’t know what it was and she tried to separate the victim and her boyfriend, falling on top of the victim in the process.

Mr Siregar said Connor had tried to protect the victim.

He said Connor had told police she did not see Taylor punching the victim and that the officer had been trying to pull her hair after biting her hand and thigh. Taylor had tried to force the police officer to release his grip on Connor’s hair.

Connor then continued searching for her lost handbag.

Mr Siregar said the highest charge Connor could face is article 221 of the Criminal Code for concealing or destroying evidence, which carries a maximum nine months in jail.

Connor and Taylor were also both interrogated for an hour on Friday last week, regarding the alleged disposal of the dead officer’s mobile phone.

LOVERS SHARE A NOTE

The couple has been kept separated in different holding cells at Denpasar police station since their arrest on August 19, several days after the officer’s death. They had only seen each other twice since then — during a dramatic re-enactment of the crime on the beach and during a joint interrogation session. On both occasions the couple kissed and cuddled.

Late on Friday Taylor’s lawyer, Yan Erick P Sihombing delivered a handwritten letter from Taylor to Connor.

“My client wrote a letter to his girlfriend,” Mr Sihombing said, adding that Connor had been happy to receive the letter and passed on her regards to Taylor.

Connor’s lawyers have requested that she be moved to a general holding cell in the main area of the police station to enable her to exercise and socialise with other prisoners.

Since her arrest Connor has been held in a single cell in the upstairs section of the police station, until recently, on her own.

The new questioning comes in the wake of prosecutors handing a lengthy brief of evidence against the couple back to police for further inquiries.

When the prosecutors are satisfied with the brief of evidence they will officially accept the document and the suspects in a process known as P21. It is the prosecutors, under Indonesian law, who decide what charges the couple will face and who bring the matter to court.