http://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-3804333/Idris-Elba-set-head-Sydney-exclusive-shopping-event-takes-break-filming-Gold-Coast.html
90
9
He's been busy filming the latest installment of Thor on the Gold Coast.

But British actor Idris Elba, 44, will take time out from his busy work schedule for a shopping event in Sydney.

The talented hunk will visit the Harbour City on Monday with UK clothing brand Superdry.

Taking a break: British actor Idris Elba will take time out from his busy on-set schedule to for a shopping event in Sydney

The Hollywood star ventured into the world of fashion last year and recently created his second collection for the company.

Next week, the Thor actor will reportedly help guests examine the new line in an 'exclusive shopping event.'

The line was designed alongside Superdry Co-founders James Holder and Julian Dunkerton.

'We're three British lads who've worked hard to get to where we are. I'm passionate about what I do and always give 100 per cent,' Idris said.

Co-stars: Idris, Tom Hiddleston and Chris Hemsworth have been working on the third installment of the Marvel comics film

'If I had the opportunity to have any influence in fashion, this is it. I'm not a designer, but I'm passionate about clothes and I know how men want to look.'

Idris and his co-stars Tom Hiddleston and Chris Hemsworth have been working on the third installment of the Marvel comics film in Queensland.

Meanwhile, the Hackney-born actor is set to star in a documentary about his own personal journey to becoming a professional kickboxer.

Titled Idris Elba: Fighter, the film 'will see Elba undertake the physically and mentally demanding task of training to become a professional kickboxer.'

New venture: The Hackney-born star is set to star in a documentary about his own personal journey to becoming a professional kickboxer

He's set to take on his first fight in October, with the match featuring in the three-hour-long special.

'It has been a lifelong ambition of mine to fight professionally,' the 44-year-old actor said.

'Entering the ring to further test myself as a human being is a challenge I have been looking to take on for quite some time,' the star said previously.

Despite his fitness and physique being suitable to playing the role of James Bond, Idris has dismissed rumours he's set to become the next 007.