http://www.business-standard.com/article/pti-stories/himachal-cm-s-son-questioned-by-ed-hits-out-at-probe-agencies-116093001263_1.html
90
9
Himachal CM's son questioned by ED, hits out at probe agencies

Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh's son Vikramaditya was today questioned by (ED) officials here for eight hours in a money laundering case, after which he alleged that the central investigating agencies have been "saffronised".



Vikramaditya, who is also the Youth chief, alleged that investigating agencies like ED and were booking leaders in false cases to please their "political masters".



"The manner in which leaders were being targeted by various investigative agencies shows how they have been saffronised. By doing so, they are not setting a healthy practice... They should not set wrong precedents for the times to come," he told PTI.



Vikramaditya was questioned by the ED in a case of money laundering registered against him and his father. He said he cooperated with the agency and answered to all the queries posed to him by the investigating officials.



He said that he had full faith in the judiciary and would emerge victorious. Besides fighting the cases in various courts, he said, he will also fight them in the people's court.



"We have full faith in the judiciary and will fight the cases in various courts and will emerge victorious. We will also take the issue of political vendetta carried out against us to the people of the state and will fight the BJP in people's court in the next election," he said.



Singh said the cases being registered against him and his father were "political motivated".



The Delhi High Court had yesterday directed the ED not to arrest Vikramaditya who had been called for interrogation in the money laundering case against his father and others.



Taking note of the ED counsel's assurance, the bench said, "In view of what has transpired in court today, no orders are being passed."



Vikramaditya was asked to appear on September 30 by ED for questioning in connection with the case following his non-appearance for interrogation earlier.



ED had also filed the first charge sheet in the case at a court here against the arrested accused, LIC agent Anand Chauhan.



The agency is probing allegations against Virbhadra and his family members of having amassed wealth of Rs 6.1 crore, which is alleged to be disproportionate to his known sources of income between 2009 and 2011 when he was the Union Minister of Steel.

(This story has not been edited by Business Standard staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)

Press Trust of India