http://www.express.co.uk/news/uk/711758/Foreign-Office-call-Scotland-Yard-cruise-ship-woman-murdered
90
9
REX/ SHUTTERSTOCK Rebecca went missing from a Disney cruise ship in 2011

The family of 24-year-old Rebecca Coriam believe she may have been murdered. And after their MP helped compile a dossier of evidence on the last hours of her life, the Foreign Office has agreed to consider the case – the first step towards a British-led investigation taking place. Rebecca went missing in March 2011 while working on the Disney Wonder during a cruise between California and Mexico.

Her body was never found and it is still not known how she vanished but police in Britain have previously said they cannot investigate because the ship was registered in the Bahamas. Now pressure will be put on the Bahamian authorities to allow a team of British detectives to investigate the possibility that Miss Coriam, who lived in Cheshire, was the victim of a crime. It follows a meeting last month between Foreign Office officials and the City of Chester MP Chris Matheson, who has been helping Rebecca’s family look into her death.

REX/ SHUTTERSTOCK Rebecca was working as a childminder on the Disney cruise ship

My worst fear is that Rebecca Coriam was murdered Chester MP Chris Matheson

Last night the Labour MP said: “There is a lot more to this case than meets the eye and we believe a crime may have taken place. We asked for the case to be reopened and for the Foreign Office to help us with funding a British-led police investigation.” The Foreign Office has now requested a prospectus of evidence be presented to them. If significant new lines of enquiry emerge, the Bahamian authorities could be persuaded to ask the Home Office to fund an investigation by British police. Mr Matheson added: “Whatever the circumstance there’s an obligation to investigate.

REX/ SHUTTERSTOCK Rebecca's parents and sister attend her memorial service

“My worst fear is that Rebecca Coriam was murdered.” Miss Coriam was reported missing on March 22 after she failed to report for a shift as the vessel sailed into Puerto Vallarta in Mexico. Suspicion has grown over Miss Coriam’s presumed death after it emerged her credit card, which was not found among her personal belongings, was used two months after she went missing. CCTV images, which are the last pictures of the missing woman, also show her looking distraught after a phone call.

In the footage, which was released last March, Miss Coriam is seen holding her head in her hands just moments after speaking to someone on the phone around 6am. She also appears to be wearing a man’s clothes, at which she repeatedly pulls, a sign she is extremely unhappy about a recent incident, private investigators say. Disney officials have always insisted the last-seen images of Miss Coriam were taken on Deck 5, not far from the door to the bow where, they say, she was swept overboard by a freak wave. But CCTV footage indicates the phone call is being made from Deck 1 – four flights of stairs away.

REX/ SHUTTERSTOCK Rebecca's family are keen for her case to be investigated by Scotland Yard

Parents Ann and Mike do not believe their daughter could have been swept over a 6ft-plus high wall, although that was the spot Disney insisted upon and where they laid flowers. In a further twist, her favourite shorts were found to be ripped when handed back to her parents, evidence of a violent struggle just before her death, they believe. Bahamas police declared Miss Coriam’s disappearance was “not suspicious”.