http://www.news.com.au/national/nsw-act/mark-tromp-has-been-found-alive-in-wangaratta-after-five-days-missing/news-story/f8b30ab75654bdc85878b7e2b2763606
94
9
Rebekah Cavanagh, Andrea Hamblin and Brianna Travers Herald Sun

THE children of Mark Tromp have admitted the circumstances leading to his disappearance — prompting a harrowing five-day search —were “bizarre” and “confusing” but say they are just overjoyed that he was found safe.

Son Mitchell, addressing media with sister Ella, said he couldn’t wait to be reunited with his dad, who is in the care of relatives at Wangaratta after being found last night.

“I will give him a big hug and just hold on to him,’’ Mitchell said.

“It will be so good to see him again.

“He is my dad and he is coming home.

“That is all I want.”

Tromp family address the media 1:38 Tromp family address the media after Victorian man Mark Tromp was found after being missing for five days.

The siblings declined to comment on what had triggered the disappearance of their father and mother, who is still recovering in hospital.

“I can see everyone’s questions,” Mitchell said. “I can see why they want to know but it is a family matter and I just want the family to be able to come back together and for everything to work itself out.

“The main thing is they are OK now, everyone’s safe, everyone’s well.”

Few details were divulged about the day his parents took off in the car from their Silvan home with their three adult children on a mystery road trip last Monday, leaving their passports and credit cards in the unlocked home.

Never in danger

Earlier, Mitchell had said his parents felt their lives were in danger and had insisted all phones and tablets be left at home so they couldn’t be traced and followed.

But Mitchell said today that he never once felt in danger.

“I just had to go with the family as I wanted to see where they were going. I couldn’t leave them,” he said.

“It was tough to see the family like that. I’d never seen anyone like it.”

Ella explained that “our state of minds weren’t in the best place”.

“It is very confusing. I still feel confused,” she said. “There’s no one reason for it. It’s bizarre.”

Talking about his decision to later leave the family car, Mitchell said he had “just had enough”.

“I thought getting out was the best idea at the time, but in hindsight I should’ve stayed and tried to help, bring them back around, try to talk to them some more.”

Ella said she also left as she needed to get home to feed her horses.

They said their mother, Jacoba, and sister, Riana, who have both been placed in psychiatric care in Goulburn, were “improving” and that they could hopefully return home soon.

They also thanked everyone, including police and media, who had helped to spread the word and find their father.

‘Completely out of character’

Mr Tromp’s parents George and Wilma Tromp told the Herald Sun their son Mark’s behaviour in the last week was completely out of character.

“It’s not like him at all,” Mrs Tromp said from her home in Healesville.

“He’s never done anything like this before. We really don’t know what has triggered all of this.

“We cant make any sense of it.

“It’s a mystery as much to us as everyone else.”

Mr Tromp said Mark and his wife, Jacoba, were a “happy and loving couple” who doted on their three children. He didn’t believe they were under any financial strain, nor was he aware of any mental health issues.

“There’s nothing sinister, no cult, no-one else involved, that’s why this is such a puzzle,” he said. “I can understand why everyone is so intrigued. One day we’ll know.”

He said he would only be speculating on theories surrounding the family possibly suffering the rare psychiatric condition folie à deux - or that they had some sort of reaction to chemicals used on the berry farm.

Mrs Tromp said now was a time for the family to heal.

“We’re waiting anxiously for what’s happening next. But we are just really overjoyed that Mark is safe,” she said.

“It’s been such a difficult time. You worry where he was, whether he had food, if he was OK. It’s such a relief everyone is accounted for and getting the help they need.”

Relief as missing dad found

Mark Tromp was found alive in Wangaratta after a harrowing five day search yesterday.

Mr Tromp was spotted along Greta Rd by a passer-by.

Police were called and picked up Mr Tromp about 5.50pm.

Mr Tromp was driven out of the back of the police complex at 10.20pm.

He was seen covering his face and gave the media the bird. He was driven out by a family member in a car with personal number plates.

BREAKING: Mark Tromp has been driven out of Wangaratta police compound. @theheraldsun pic.twitter.com/vZO7qtWaIQ — Brianna Travers (@briannatravers) September 3, 2016

The children of Mr Tromp travelled to Wangaratta to be reunited with their dad for Father’s Day.

Soon after the news broke, Mitchell said it was the best news he had ever heard when he was told his dad was safe.

“It’s such a relief, I’m just so happy,” Mitchell, 25, said.

“It’s going to be the best Father’s Day of my life.”

“I just couldn’t believe it, I’m so rapt, I’m just jumping for joy.”

BAFFLING DISAPPEARANCE: COUPLE FEARED THEY WERE BEING FOLLOWED

MORE: FAMILIES DISAPPEARANCE SHOCKS SMALL TOWN

Police notified the family after a passer-by saw Mr Tromp walking on the outskirts of Wangarratta.

Mr Tromp was being helped by police and was expected to undergo a mental health assessment.

“He’s in good hands, he is safe there,” Mitchell said.

The children hadn’t yet organised a Father’s Day gift but Mitchell said he would have to come up with something extra special for the occasion.

“It’s the best news I’ve had in my life,” he said.

He described Mr Tromp as a “mate” as well as a dad.

The family work together on their redcurrant farm in Silvan and were very close.

Mystery still surrounds what prompted Mr Tromp to disappear.

Police will wait for Mr Tromp to be assessed by medical professionals before questioning him further about the incident.

MORE: FAMILY NOT BEING THREATENED, FOLLOWED OR UNDER FINANCIAL PRESSURE

Mr Tromp’s parents George and Wilma earlier said the news their son was safe was “wonderful”.

“We are just so, so relieved,” Mrs Tromp said.

“We will be celebrating and we will have a big family dinner.”

Mr Tromp fled his Silvan home in the Yarra Ranges on Monday with his wife and children on a bizarre 1500km drive across two states.

The much-loved father-of-three was last seen disappearing into bushland in Wangaratta about 10pm on Wednesday night, with no confirmed sightings since.

“Every sighting we get, we investigate,” Sgt Mark Knight said.

It is understood the Tromps left their home on Monday amid family stress. Business paperwork, passports and phones were found at the house.

The doors of the home had been left wide open and car keys had been left inside the family vehicles.

New details emerged on Friday about the strange family road trip when a ute driver came forward claiming that one of the children was hiding in the back of his vehicle in Goulburn, NSW.

Keith Whittaker told the Goulburn Post that he found a woman believed to be Riana Tromp after he filled up at a petrol station in NSW.

“I turned around and saw two legs stretched across the back between my seat and the floor. She was lying on the floor,” Mr Whittaker said.

“I got an extreme shock. I pulled over in a rest area.”

Mr Whittaker said about 20 minutes later the young woman sat up and was staring straight ahead.

“I asked her who she was and if she was all right? She did not know her name and had no idea where she was,” he said.

“I asked her if she needed any water or anything or was in any way injured and she said no.”

— with Ashley Argoon, Lilydale & Yara Leader