http://www.newsday.co.tt/news/0,232697.html
90
9
A d v e r t i s e m e n t

Eight Turkey detainees have TT passports

By Clint Chan Tack Friday, September 2 2016

GOVERNMENT yesterday received information that eight of the nine people detained last month by Turkish authorities had TT passports in their possession. However, the authenticity of these documents and whether the eight are in fact bonafide TT nationals are still to be confirmed.

Speaking at the post-Cabinet news conference at the Office of the Prime Minister in St Clair, Port-of-Spain, Minister in the Ministry of the Attorney General and Legal Affairs Stuart Young said the Government has “been able to ascertain through our diplomatic channels and ties that there were nine persons detained by the Turkish authorities.” He added, “These persons had in their possession TT passports ... eight of them ...



women and children.” Young said that the ninth person did not have a TT passport.



He explained that Government’s national security channels are looking into the issue of the TT passports and whether the holders are in fact TT citizens. He said the circumstances of their detention is still unknown and Government is awaiting official response from the Turkish Government on this matter.



Last month, Attorney General Faris Al-Rawi said the Government was investigating a report that nine TT nationals were detained in southern Turkey on their way to join a terrorist group in Syria.



Young also said Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) legislation will be among the first pieces of legislation Government will be bringing to Parliament, shortly after sittings resume on September 9. This legislation requires a three-fifths majority for passage and, Young said, “the official conversation with the Opposition, by the Government, as far as I am aware, has not as yet begun.” He reiterated this was a US requirement since 2010 and the former People’s Partnership (PP) government did not ensure the country was FATCA compliant.



Noting support from groups such as the Bankers Association and the Association of Trinidad and Tobago Insurance Companies for Government signing the inter-government agreement with the US on FATCA, Young did not expect the Opposition to be “a stumbling block or hurdle” in having this legislation passed.







