http://www.khmertimeskh.com/news/29437/zika-leaflets-to-be-distributed/
90
9
The Health Ministry has ordered all provincial health departments to print leaflets about the Zika virus to distribute them throughout the Kingdom.



According to a Facebook post on Monday by the Health Ministry’s Communicable Disease Control (CDC) Department, Health Ministry spokesman Ly Sovann said: “All people need to understand about the Zika virus.



“Please all 25 provincial health departments, download the attached documents and then print them to use for health education and distribute to people to understand about the Zika virus,” he said, adding that all Facebook users could download the files at any time.



He asked everyone to take the leaflets and tell their family, friends and colleagues in order to control and prevent the virus.



Mr. Sovann, who is also director of the CDC, could not be reached for comment yesterday.



The Health Ministry on Monday posted on its official Facebook page that the Svay Rieng Provincial Health Department had shared knowledge about Zika virus control and prevention to all officials including heads of hospitals and the head of the quarantine office.



The provincial department ordered its officials to organize and print educational documents about the virus in leaflet form to distribute to travelers crossing borders and people in the provinces to prevent infection along the Cambodia-Vietnam border.



Last week, the Health Ministry released a statement saying that from 2007 to 2010, seven Zika cases had been found in the Kingdom with all patients recovering. Since 2010, no additional cases had been reported.



It added that in 2016, Vietnam had two Zika cases and Thailand had 97 Zika cases, transmitted by mosquitoes of the Aedes genus.



After Zika cases were found in some Asean member states, the ministry issued a travel warning and installed thermal scanners at major border crossings and airports.



According to the Bangkok Post yesterday, 20 new Zika cases in four Thai provinces were confirmed over the past week, including two pregnant women in Chiang Mai who are being closely monitored by medical staff.