http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/british-threat-stop-anti-terror-8732072
20
2
Theresa May has been warned not to put security on the table in the Jungle camp row

Tory and Labour MPs today warned Theresa May not to harm anti-terror advice to France over claims it could be threatened by the Calais Jungle camp spat.

The row broke out after 'government sources' suggested Britain may stop co-operating over security if France tears up a 2003 border treaty in its bid to close the makeshift home for migrants and refugees.

Politicians in France - which has Presidential elections next year - suggest the camp's inhabitants should make UK asylum claims at "hotspots" near the French coast.

Today a Home Office source called the idea a "non-starter" as Home Secretary Amber Rudd met her French counterpart for security talks.

But it was the claim that Britain could hold back on security in retaliation, made by government sources to the Times, that prompted fresh anger.

Getty A Tory MP said the makeshift home in Calais was in the worst state he has seen

Shadow Home Secretary Andy Burnham said the report at a time of terror attacks on the continent was "crass and insensitive".

He added: "The same terror networks that threaten France threaten security on British streets too.

"Theresa May should disown these comments without delay."

Even Dover's Tory MP Charlie Elphicke, who agreed a new treaty was needed and said Jungle inhabitants should be "repatriated" to their home countries, rejected the idea.

He said: "France clearly has suffered serious terrorist atrocities - we need to stand with France.

"Threatening a tit for tat is not the right thing to do. What we need to do is work more closely together."

Video loading Watch next Watch this video again Watch Next Click to play Tap to play The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

Home Secretary Amber Rudd will meet her French counterpart Bernard Cazeneuve in Paris today and is expected to reject any move to allow UK asylum claims in France.

Under the 2003 Le Touquet treaty British immigration officials can check passports in Calais and their French counterparts can do the same in Dover.

The idea of scrapping it was widely blamed on right-wing electioneering in the country, including by former President Nicholas Sarkozy.

Dan Kitwood Home Secretary Amber Rudd is travelling to Paris today for security talks

Lib Dem leader Tim Farron said: "Sarkozy with his desperate little speech at Le Touquet is trying to grub around in the gutter for votes."

Mr Elphicke said the Jungle camp should be shut down and inhabitants "repatriated" to nations they fled - instead of being allowed to make asylum claims from across the Channel.

Calling for new boat patrols in the Channel, he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "The Jungle is the worst I've ever seen it. It is larger than it's ever been.

Right-winger Nicholas Sarkozy is back on the scene in France

"I spoke to lorry drivers who've been attacked with chainsaws, they've been petrol bombed, they've been attacked with machetes, their lorries have been stopped by trees.

"It's a really serious situation and that's why we need to have a new treaty between Britain and France to deal with these problems once and for all.

"This situation has gone on too long. It's gone on for over a decade. We need to dismantle the Calais Jungle, to set up a repatriation centre to help the vulnerable people there back to their home nations.

"But most of all we need to try and get the people traffickers, who are busy attacking drivers in transit and exploiting vulnerable people in the Jungle.

He added: "Allowing people to apply for asylum in Britain from France would simply make Calais an even bigger magnet.

"We've got to deal with this magnet for migrants and it's not dealt with by a process in which we allow people to get into Britain."