http://classic.iol.co.za/capetimes/r300m-plan-for-reed-dance-maidens-halted-1.2068302
90
9
DoC GCIS King Goodwill Zwelithini

DURBAN: A R300 million project to revamp King Goodwill Zwelithini’s Enyokeni Palace has been indefinitely put on ice while Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthethwa studies a forensic investigation on it.

The Enyokeni Cultural Precinct project, which the Department of Arts and Culture announced in 2014, would include building sleeping quarters for thousands of maidens who attend the annual Reed Dance.

The department had planned to use the R300m to turn the king's main palace into a state-of-the-art facility and the main tourist attraction centre in the rural town of Nongoma.

However, little construction has happened at the palace. So far there has been tarring of an access road to the palace's main entrance, some fencing has been completed and renovation has taken place at a stadium where the Reed Dance event is held.

At the weekend, more than 30 000 maidens turned up at Nongoma for the annual Reed Dance ceremony amid cold weather. They slept in tents and buses, and were forced to bathe in a nearby river or behind tents in full view of men.

They also had to relieve themselves in bushes due to a shortage of toilets.

Department of Art and Culture spokesperson Lisa Combrinck said yesterday that “due to the investigation, the project was paused”.

She said Minister Nathi Mthethwa had appointed Gobodo Forensics and Investigative Accounting to investigate the project. She could not say when the project would resume.

Combrinck said the investigation was completed in January. For now, the findings were secret.

Ingonyama Trust Board chairperson Judge Jerome Ngwenya had said in 2014 the money would be used to build facilities for maidens who did not feel safe using bushes to relieve themselves and sleeping in tents.

Ngwenya had said the facility would be “bigger than any building in Durban” to accommodate more than 30 000 maidens.

The king’s spokesperson, Thulani Zulu, this week referred questions about the project to the Department of Arts and Culture.

However, Nomagugu Ngobese, a leader of Nomkhubulwane, a cultural group that specialises in virginity testing in preparation for the Reed Dance, expressed outrage at the lack of sleeping facilities for the maidens.

IFP national chairperson Blessed Gwala said the department was being unfair to the king and maidens by delaying the project. Gwala said the department should consider the well-being of the maidens, who were subjected to horrible weather conditions.

DA provincial leader Zwakele Mncwango said the private sector should come on board.

“We cannot expect government to pay for everything. The Reed Dance contributes to the well-being of South African society,” he said.