http://www.thenational.scot/news/chief-defends-firm-at-centre-of-asylum-row-at-mps-hearing.22361
90
9
Chief defends firm at centre of asylum row at MPs' hearing

If you would prefer unlimited access, please support our journalism with a website subscription. Subscribe today for just £3.99 a month.

Registered users can read up to 10 articles for free each month.

Will fin breid, barley-bree an paintit room. Whan MacLean meets wi's friens in Springburn. Aa thae roses an geeans will turn tae blume. An a black laud frae yont Nyanga. Dings the fell gallows o the burghers doun.

Black an white ane-til-ither mairriet. Mak the vile barracks o thair maisters bare. Sae come aa ye at hame wi freedom. Never heed whit the houdies croak for Doom. In yer hous aa the bairns o Aidam.

Tak the road an seek ither loanins. Wi thair ill-ploys tae sport an play. Nae mair will our bonnie callants. Merch tae war whan our braggarts crousely craw. Nor wee weans frae pitheid an clachan. Murn the ships sailin doun the Broomielaw. Broken faimilies in launs we've hairriet. Will curse 'Scotlan the Brave' nae mair, nae mair.

Roch the win i the clear day's dawin. Blaws the clouds heilster-gowdie owre the bay. But thair's mair nor a roch win blawin. Thro the Great Glen o the warl the day. It's a thocht that wad gar our rottans. Aa thae rogues that gang gallus fresh an gay.

THE head of the controversial company housing asylum seekers in Scotland insisted he is “proud” of his company at an MPs’ probe into refugee accommodation yesterday.

THE head of the controversial company housing asylum seekers in Scotland insisted he is “proud” of his company at an MPs’ probe into refugee accommodation yesterday.

The Home Affairs Committee launched its inquiry in response to reports of substandard housing in Glasgow earlier this year.

Staff of sub-contractor Orchard and Shipman, which houses asylum claimants in Scotland on behalf of Serco, were also accused of shouting at vulnerable tenants and failing to make repairs and clean properties.

Workers were alleged to have sprayed air freshener at asylum seekers while holding their noses, a mother and child were reportedly housed in a cockroach-infested flat and a man was left without a lock on his front door.

Chris Shipman, who founded the Slough-based property management firm almost 30 years ago, yesterday said there was no evidence to back up claims about his Glasgow staff and said some allegations had come from an employee who joined and then left the company several times.

He said he is “very proud” of the firm and described the atmosphere surrounding the Home Office contract as the “most politicised” of his career.

Shipman said the “blood-splattered” home his company was said to have put one tenant in later turned out to be covered in fruit juice, and called such allegations “really upsetting”, but added: “Things will go wrong in a property maintenance contract.”

On the bullying claims, he said: “We have got no dates, no specifics, there’s just absolutely nothing we can do or any evidence that we can provide that would substantiate or corroborate that in any way.”

Serco won the five-year contract in 2012. Asylum seekers are placed in “initial accommodation” for up to 19 days, then moved into “dispersed accommodation” if support is approved by the immigration service.

The contract covering Scotland and Northern Ireland, which ends next May, is worth £67.7 million, with Orchard and Shipman paid to deliver the work.

Yesterday, Serco chief executive Rupert Soames, formerly of Scottish engineering firm Aggreko, revealed his company is set to lose millions over the course of the contract, but would not walk away.

He said: “We are in the business of providing services to government, whether it be running prisons or providing care for asylum seekers.

“On average we are paid, per asylum seeker, £300 per month. On average an asylum seeker costs us £450 per month.”

However, he said he would accept an extension of the contract.

When asked about a number of academic and third-sector reports critical of the service provided, Soames said: “Quite a lot of it feeds on each other. People report stories.”

The businessmen said accommodation used meets government standards and much of the strain had been caused by an increase in the number of refugees and the decision to disperse people in particular areas.

Soames said the original Home Office contract did not set a figure, but the level was expected to be about 22,000.

He went on: “We were led to expect in good faith by the Home Office that the numbers of people that we would be looking after would be broadly consistent. They are up 200 per cent.

“We are looking after, now, 8,000 more people than at the start of the contract. There has been a massive explosion.”

Soames continued: “We feel passionately about looking after asylum seekers well. We are looking after 122 over-stayers at our own expense. We can’t bring ourselves to go to these people and say: ‘You are out of here.’”

Earlier, Freedom From Torture head Susan Munroe told the panel how clients from her service “report worse problems in Glasgow” and “poorer repairs” than other parts of the UK.

MPs were told about one wheelchair user placed in a house that had steps to both the bathroom and kitchen.

Gary Christie, of the Scottish Refugee Council, said Serco was taking steps to make improvements, but issues remain about the suitability of accommodation and the help given to asylum seekers.

They also underlined the unacceptability of placing refugees with post-traumatic stress disorder in houses of multiple occupancy, hotels and hostels, with symptoms like hallucinations and nightmares causing conflict with other residents.

Shipman admitted the use of hotels and hostels has been “too high” and could cost the company about £21m, adding: “It’s just too much. It’s not ideal, we accept that.”

Calling for further dispersal to other areas to overcome higher Glasgow property prices to help his firm place asylum seekers, he said: “We know there are areas surrounding Glasgow where there is availability of accommodation which would meet Home Office standards.”

When asked if he was “in a state of denial”, Shipman rejected this, saying: “We have a complex and important contract to deliver. We deliver that in difficult circumstances. I don’t feel in any way complacent.”