http://thenationonlineng.net/one-week-boko-harams-former-hqtrs/
90
9
For the best part of a week, Borno State Governor Ibrahim Shettima was in Bama to supervise the rebuilding of the damaged erstwhile capital of the insurgents’ “caliphate”. DUKU JOEL reports

Such was the hold Boko Haram had on Bama town that when Borno State Governor Ibrahim Shettima said he was relocating there for a week following its recovery from the insurgents, many including his security advisers tried to dissuade him. The governor was going to supervise the rebuilding of the town, which was badly damaged by the insurgents. Shettima did not get much green light from aides.

The reason was simple. There were few places, if any, in the Northeast that were attacked more fiercely and repeatedly as Bama was. Eventually, the insurgents captured the town, chased out the monarch and converted his palace to their operational base. They hoisted their flag and called Bama the capital of their so-called caliphate. For one a half years, Bama was a no-go area. Only the terrorists ruled there.

That picture has changed, as the military recaptured the town under the President Muhammadu Buhari administration. Still, some fear that remnants of the much-weakened terror group could attack anytime.

Bama town is an urban centre that was largely destroyed by Boko Haram insurgents after they took over the town for almost two years before it was liberated by the military in late 2015. It is located 74km away from Maiduguri and it is one of the third most populated local government areas next to Maiduguri Metropolitan Council and Biu in southern part of the State.

The Nation recalls that the insurgents had attacked the town, killing dozens, destroyed ýmore than 80 percent of the houses, sacked the Emir and took over his palace after declaring it a sovereign territory with a new set of laws and leader. The military however toppled the insurgents and recovered the area by the end of 2015, months after President Muhammadu Buhari took over affairs.

His idea of moving to Bama became very clear when he rode through the rough, scary highway of Maiduguri to Bama with a full security arsenal to crush any Boko Haram ambush standing in his way. A trend evidently possible on the once dreaded highway only pliable and operated by the insurgents in the last one and a half years.

He said, “My office is now here. I decided to relocate here to live here and supervise reconstruction works. I will administer Borno State from here. I am fully prepared to be here for days to come, one week, two weeks or even more. I will not leave until we are able to rebuild a good number of private houses, municipal buildings, markets, schools and clinics.

“I want the reconstruction work to take proper shape before I leave. We cannot wait till forever before we reclaim our destiny. Bama is the one of the worst affected areas and we will move from here to other parts of the State. While I am here, we have a full structure of Government in place operating in Maiduguri so that activities of managing IDP’S, civil service, implementation of Government policies and programmes will continue while I am here. I will be in constant touch with Maiduguri, I came prepared,” Governor Shettima boasted.

Before Shettima’s relocation to Bama, heavy duty equipment, construction materials and hundreds of trucks of variety of building materials were already shipped into Bama town ahead of the reconstruction and rebuilding of the town. As soon as Shettima arrived Bama, he went straight to inspect the reconstruction of works on private residential houses, police stations, stores, schools, hospitals, the Emirs palace among others.

Throughout his almost one week in Bama, the tempo of construction and activities in the town scaled up completely. To ensure that the town remains safe throughout the construction and rebuilding work in the town which is still very susceptible and vulnerable to Boko Haram attacks, a total of 500 Civilian JTF, and Vigilantes were inaugurated and charged by the governor to compliment the military security strength to forestall any Boko Haram attacks while the constructions last.

But the biggest surprise of Gov. Shettima came on his third day in Bama when elders of the area, encouraged by what they described as his bold decision to relocate to their town, pooled resources together and hired over 5000 vigilantes as their contribution to protect Bama from any external aggression by Boko Haram.

Leader of the forum, Al-Amin Kam Salem at the Emir’s palace told Gov. Shettima of the gratitude of their community over his commitment to rebuild their ancestral home to facilitate quickly the return of the people back to the town.

He said, “There is no motivation greater than the courageous relocation of our governor to our ancient town, we are going to definitely contribute financially, morally and spiritually towards the rebuilding of Bama and the continued peace of the town. We are completely behind the governor.

“We have Civilian JTF, local hunters and vigilantes already willing to protect the town against aggressors. All these people are ready to complement the security agencies. We are spiritual people and we will continue to pray for God’s continued protection on the town.

“We have donated 5,000 men to guard against any form of aggression on Bama; these are local hunters and Civilian JTF. Our people are already on ground, assisting in the ongoing reconstruction of the town and we are all yearning to come back to our homes. Immediately the homes are ready, everyone would move in,” Kamsalem said.

Another remarkable development that Bama witnessed during Gov. Shettima’s stay was the clearing activities that took place in the town. Our correspondent observed that Bama which was literary transformed into a Boko Haram town uptill now is 70% inaccessible from civilian population for fear of IEDs and mines littered in the course of the insurgents’ long stay in the town.