http://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/montreal/should-students-be-subject-to-a-gym-class-weigh-in-1.3727896
20
2
A petition submitted to the National Assembly calling on the provincial government to end the practice of weighing students during physical education classes.

The practice takes place in CEGEPs as well as some primary and secondary schools and sometimes happens in front of the whole class, according to the petition's author.

"Both times, at the moment of weighing, I felt panicked, complete anxiety," said Mila Jamison, a 21-year old CEGEP student and anorexia survivor who signed the petition.

'It's not normal'

Mila Jamison signed the petition calling on the Quebec government to end the practice of weighing students in some physical education classes. (Radio-Canada)

She believes more students would be comfortable with physical education courses if they were not forced to be weighed in front of the class. Some teachers also measure body fat and calculate the body mass index.

"I had to go on the scale, in front of people, and calculate my body mass index. It's not normal. These are doctors' tools. It's not something I should have to provide my teacher," Jamison said.

Cassandra Langevin, a social worker with Maison L'Éclaircie in Quebec City, works with people suffering from anorexia and bulimia and supports the petition. She says weighing can be a source of stress, especially with those vulnerable to having an eating disorder.

"It could have a lot of impact. Many people could be tempted afterwards to restrict their eating or to be careful," she says.

In partnership with Anorexia and Bulimia Quebec, Maison L'Éclaircie sent out an recommendation to schools last year, asking them to avoid weighing students and measuring their body mass index.

Not a government policy

The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Sébastien Proulx, said Thursday he was "surprised" to hear weigh-ins were happening in some physical education classes.

"It is not a requirement in ministry. This is not a policy," he said.

He didn't offer an official position on the debate, but questioned the relevance of weighing students.

"I thought about it as parent first and foremost, and I'm pretty sure there are other ways to explain how to calculate body mass index for children."

He said the government will gather more information on the issue before making a decision on next steps.

Weight doesn't give full picture

Researcher Jean-Pierre Després from the Quebec Heart and Lung Institute says that research on obesity and health demonstrates that this data are not sufficient on their own to determine the state of a person's health.

Jean-Pierre Després from Laval University's Faculty of Medicine says weighing and calculating body mass index are not enough to determine whether someone is fit or not. (Radio-Canada)

"It is not the body mass index that determines if someone is in good or bad health. It depends on their level of physical activity, their physical condition, the quality of their nutrition and if the person has too much internal fat," he says.

The petition is sponsored by Liberal MNA for La Prairie, Richard Merlini. The petition's author is unknown.