http://www.dailytrust.com.ng/news/general/budget-padding-i-ve-met-with-police--rep-gbajabiamila/159594.html
90
9
The Leader of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, has said that he reported himself to the Nigeria Police over the allegations of budget padding. Although Gbajabiamila’s name was not mentioned in the several allegations of fraud in the 2016 budget by the former chairman of the appropriation committee, there were insinuations that he was also involved.

However, the House Leader said in a statement yesterday that he met with the police over the matter for him to be interrogated to ascertain if he has any role in the allegations. “I returned from the United States just yesterday after a three week break. I called the Speaker a day before my return to urgently fix a Principal Officers meeting so we could address the several allegations made by Hon Jibrin. At the meeting Speaker Dogara, Deputy Speaker Lasun , Chief Whip, Hon Ado Dogwa and Minority Leader, Hon Leo Ogor passionately and vigorously clearly stated their innocence. A prepared text was read and we all agreed to sign.”

Gbajabiamila said: “The decision to relieve Hon Jibrin was indeed a collective decision of which I was a part of.”He added: “However I gave a caveat before the press release was signed. I made it clear to my colleagues in the leadership that because somehow my name had been sullied in all of this and fake documents and publications had been put out there in traditional and social media which stated I was also involved in the so-called padding of the budget, that I would need to clear my name and that even though no petition was filed against me by Hon. Jibrin and no invitation was extended to me by the police, I would be submitting myself on my own volition to the police for investigation.”“This is important to me as insinuations have been made from many quarters that I along with others were sponsoring Hon Jibrin. I have just this afternoon met with the police authorities for a proper and thorough investigation of my role if any in this whole bizarre episode,” he said.