http://leadership.ng/news/546885/budget-padding-gbajabiamila-surrenders-self-for-investigation
90
9
Majority Leader of the House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila yesterday said he has subjected himself to police investigation over budget padding allegations.

Gbajabiamila, who for the second time denied any involvement in the alleged fraud, said the principal officers who were accused in the alleged scam deserve a benefit of doubt.

According to him, the Speaker and other principal officers had at their executive meeting denied allegations levied against them by the sacked chairman of the House committee on Appropriation, Hon. Abdumumini.

The House Leader described speculations that he sponsored the petitioner, Hon. Abdumumini Jibrin to levy such weighty allegations against Speaker Yakubu Dogara and others as untrue.

“This is important to me as insinuations have been made from many quarters that I, along with others were sponsoring Hon Jibrin. I have just this afternoon met with the police authorities for a proper and thorough investigation of my role, if any, in this whole bizzare episode,” he said.

Although Gbajabiamila was not fingered in the alleged fraud, he said it was important to make himself available for investigation so as to clear his name from the alleged impropriety.

He however confirmed that the sack of Hon. Abdulmumini as the committee chairman was a collective decision.

“At the meeting Speaker Dogara, Deputy Speaker Lasun , Chief Whip, Hon Ado Dogwa and Minority Leader, Hon Leo Ogor passionately and vigorously clearly stated their innocence. A prepared text was read and we all agreed to sign. For me as the Leader of the House I felt it was important to give them the benefit of doubt which in any case is what our constitution says. The decision to relieve Hon Jibrin was indeed a collective decision of which I was a part of.”

“However I gave a caveat before the press release was signed, I made it clear to my colleagues in the leadership that because somehow my name had been soiled in all of this and fake documents and publications had been put out there in traditional and social media which stated I was also involved in the so called padding of the budget, that I would need to clear my name and that even though no petition was filed against me by Hon Jibrin and no invitation was extended to me by the police, I would be submitting myself on my own volition to the police for investigation,” he said.

Meanwhile, the petitioner, Abdulmumini has urged the anti-graft agencies and the Nigerian Police to be more vigilant, as he accused Speaker Dogara of doing everything possible to destroy evidences against himself and other accused principal officers.

“I am pleading with the security and anti-corruption agencies to be vigilant because Speaker Dogara is moving freely and destroying evidence. Let me assure Nigerians that I will continue with this struggle even if I am alone,” he said.

Abdulmumini in his reaction to the resolution of the Principal Officers on the matter, said Dogara and his co-accused wanted him to implicate the six principal officers who were not accused in his petition.

According to Abdulmumini: “They just want to drag as many people as possible into the matter to use it as a shield or create a situation that in their foolish way of thinking will compel me to implicate the 6 other Principal Officers or other people both in NASS and the Executive Arm. They are obviously looking for co-travellers.”

He however stated that the reforms needed in the House will only be possible after a new leadership has emerged in the lower chambers of the National Assembly.

“Looking beyond the corrupt regime of Yakubu Dogara, the first duty of the new Speaker is to implement a wide range of internal reforms. Speaker Dogara does not have the credibility to superintend over the reforms,” he stated.