http://www.india.com/news/india/islamic-international-school-operated-by-dr-zakir-naik-under-police-scanner-for-brainwashing-students-1409946/
90
9
Mumbai, August 15: The Mumbai police officials have brought Islamic International School (IIS), operated by Dr. Zakir Naik, under their scanner alleging that the school officials are ‘brainwashing’ its students. A report submitted by Mumbai police to Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis, have raised “serious concerns” over the kind of education imparted to students at his Mazgaon school.

The report suggested that there was enough material in the syllabus to indicate that the Zakir Naik’s school was not only “brainwashing” students into rejecting other faiths, it also urged them to convert people to Islam.

Last month the state government had ordered a probe against the Mumbai-based controversial preacher, who allegedly inspired ISIS terrorists in Dhaka and members of its module in Kerala, to know whether he is a threat to the society. Experts believe that Dr. Naik could only be booked by police officials for hurting religious sentiments. A source of Mumbai Mirror said that the “brainwashing” angle could lead to serious trouble for Naik. (Also Read: NDA government may face dilemma over prosecuting Zakir Naik: Analysts)

The cops are also investigating IIS’s branch located in Chennai, and which, according to its website, is “planned, operated and developed by Dr. Zakir Naik”.

The police investigation said the school, which also has a branch in Chennai, and which, according to its website, is “conceived, planned, and developed by Dr. Zakir Naik”, asks Muslims to stay away from non-Islamic schools.

The police report, running into 71 pages, quoted from the school’s literature to highlight how it aimed to ‘insular’ students.

A senior police official reportedly said, “Some of the school’s literature, which is also available on its website, is highly controversial and objectionable, and could produce indoctrinated individuals”.

Meanwhile, the school management denied all allegations. A senior functionary of the school was quoted by Mumbai Mirror where he said, “The curriculum of the Islamic International School is a combination of modern academics and Islamic studies. Nowhere does it promotes any kind of extremism.”