http://www.standardmedia.co.ke/article/2000219505/22-candidates-to-miss-kcse-exams-after-school-failed-to-register-them
90
9


Updated Thu, October 13th 2016 at 00:00 GMT +3

New Alumni education centre Director Emannuel Masinde (front left) after he ws arrested by police officers for operating a school illegally. At least 22 Form Four candidates from the school will not sit this year's national examinations because they are not registered. (PHOTO: BEVERLYNE MUSILI/ STANDARD)

At least 22 Form Four candidates will not sit this year's national examinations because they are not registered.

The candidates were not registered to sit the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education exams because their school is not registered with the Ministry of Education.

Authorities yesterday said New Alumni Education Centre in Gacharage, Kiambu County, is not in the records of the ministry.

Parents claim they paid Sh7,000 only to learn later that their children are not registered as candidates with the Kenya National Examination Council.

When we visited, it also emerged the private school, whose director was identified as Emmanuel Masinde, hosts primary and secondary school students on its quarter an acre land.

Located in a residential area, its classrooms, which are made of iron sheets, are in a deplorable state. Standard one, Two, Three and Four students share one classroom. Standard Five, Six and Seven students are also combined in one classroom.

READ MORE Bill to clip KNEC powers in cancellation of results

In one building marked as laboratory, only an old newspaper and a broken chair could be seen.

Ministry of Education officials and security officers yesterday visited the institution to investigate the matter.

Initially operating

Area assistant chief Mwaura Wagacha told The Standard the school was initially operating as a community-based organization (CBO) offering education to underprivileged children from the neighbourhood.

"Parents who take their children to the school are those who cannot afford fees. They brought them here after they were promised assistance. There is no official list of teachers here since most of them are volunteers and university students," said Wagacha.

Kiambaa sub-county director of education Francis Kibiko said the school, which has been in operation since 2013, is not registered.