http://www.taipeitimes.com/News/biz/archives/2016/08/19/2003653392
90
9
Staff writer, with agencies

ENERGY

Neo, Cathay announce tie-up

Neo Solar Power Corp (新日光能源) yesterday said it plans an initial investment of NT$1.5 billion (US$47.76 million) in a joint venture with Cathay Life Insurance Co (國泰人壽) in new solar power plants in Taiwan. The joint venture will have paid-in capital of NT$3.5 billion, Neo Solar said in a statement, adding that second-round investments would be made in accordance with the development of the new venture. Neo Solar said it has plans for 800 megawatts worth of solar power plant construction with its 70 percent-owned subsidiary General Energy Solutions Inc (永旺能源). General Energy operates solar power plants in western Europe, Africa, Latin America, the Middle East and Southeast Asia.

BANKING

High earnings reported

Southeast Asia-based branches of Taiwanese banks reported record-high earnings in the first half of the year, data from the Financial Supervisory Commission showed yesterday. Combined earnings from 33 branches in the region reached NT$4 billion, approaching the NT$5.4 billion recorded in the entirety of last year, the data showed. Singapore led the region with NT$2.51 billion in earnings contributions in the first half, while Vietnam and Cambodia had shown considerable growth momentum, the commission’s Banking Bureau said.

BIOTECHNOLOGY

TaiGen trials approved

TaiGen Biotechnology Co (太景生技) on Wednesday announced that its new hepatitis C virus inhibitor, Furaprevir, has received approval from the Chinese Food and Drug Administration to begin clinical trials under Class 1.1 designation. The drug has entered second-phase clinical trials in Taiwan and the US and is the only Taiwan-developed drug to be granted fast-track status by Chinese authorities. TaiGen said the Chinese study would explore Furaprevir’s efficacy when used in conjunction with antiviral drug Ribavirin. The company hopes to reduce the treatment period for hepatitis C from between 24 and 48 weeks to about 12 weeks. There are 160 million to 170 hepatitis C patients worldwide, of which a quarter are Chinese, the company said.

AUTOMAKERS

S Korean probe expanded

South Korea has expanded an investigation into the fabrication of emissions and noise-level test results to all foreign car brands after fining Volkswagen AG over breaches. The South Korean Ministry of the Environment last week launched a probe of 23 foreign automakers involving 110 diesel models, ministry director Hong Dong-kon said by telephone. The results of the investigation are to be announced in two to three months, Hong said. Earlier this month, South Korea blocked sales of 80 VW models and fined the company 17.8 billion won (US$16 million).

CHINA

Housing prices rise 0.8%

Housing prices in China rose 0.8 percent last month nationwide, but stalled or fell in more cities than in June, an official survey showed yesterday. Average new home prices in China’s 70 major cities rose 7.9 percent last month from a year earlier, accelerating from a 7.3 percent increase in June, the survey said. However, last month’s home prices rose at the same pace as in June, which was the slowest since April, according to a Reuters calculation based on data issued by the Chinese National Bureau of Statistics.