http://punemirror.indiatimes.com/columns/columnists/ajit-ranade/How-to-avoid-road-scam/articleshow/54984550.cms
90
9
Thane beat Mumbai in devising clever contracts and using advanced technology of polymer bitumen



Last week’s column examined what lies beneath Mumbai’s road scam. Road contracts have become a way of siphoning off BMC funds, whose annual budget is Rs 2,500 crore on roads related work. Engineers, auditors, supervisors and contractors are all in cahoots defrauding the public.



For the first time, thanks to the investigation launched by the municipal commissioner, 26 people are in jail. More may follow. The message is going around that such frauds won’t be tolerated. All this is post facto cleanup. Is there a way to prevent such frauds happening in the first place? Prevention is better than cure. So, how does one devise a tendering and contracting system, where there is minimal leakage of public funds, and we get a quality job? How do you create conditions where even if there is a demand for kickbacks, the honest contractor will be able to say no? This may sound Utopian, but we have a solution right in our neighborhood. That’s what triggered this follow-up column from last week.



Mumbai and Thane get the same amount of rain. It can be torrential, and contractors often blame the rain for potholes. But, Thane’s roads are in much better shape. Many service roads, and those which were not dug up, have withstood four or even five monsoons. So, what explains the difference? For this, we have to dig deeper into the details of the contract. First of all, when a municipality floats a tender, the amount is based on expert estimates. The actual bids may be lower or higher, depending on the efficiency or comparative advantage of the bidder. In Mumbai, often the winning bids for road contracts have been 40 or even 50 per cent lower than the tender announcement. That itself should set off alarm bells of suspicion.



In Thane, if such a low bid was received, it was placed in a “radioactive” category. That meant that the bidder had to submit a caution deposit, and give details of bill of materials and costing, etc. How the hell can you execute the contract with such a low bid, without compromising on quality? This is one difference between Thane and Mumbai. Next is the technology used. Thane chose Polymer Modified Bitumen (PMB) and Crumbled Rubber Modified Bitumen (CRMB) for road laying. This is slightly more expensive than conventional bitumen, but the road lasts longer, hence cheaper in the long run. Thane also used Ultra Thin White Top (UTWT) technology, which is a thin layer of cement on tar. This too is slightly expensive up front, but cheaper over the life cycle of the road. Better to spend more and have the road last for five years, than spend less but bleed every year. Of course cement roads are best, but they are 10 times more expensive.



The beauty of PMB is that the bitumen had to be taken to a specialist company (part of HPCL or BPCL). After polymerization, the hot material is brought to site, where it must be used quickly. Else it solidifies and becomes a rock, and is then unusable. Since the polymerising company gets paid on the volume of material, they keep a watch on whether any bitumen is being stolen, or in shortage. Thus, by introducing another stakeholder in the loop, there is an extra set of eyes watching the contractor and engineers.



Finally, when the road is laid, it is tested for water drainage right away (not wait for monsoon). So, if there is flooding or clogging, it is detected early in the road laying exercise. Because PMB or CRMB is costly, and involves a third party company keeping a watchful eye, the bids never went much below the tender announcements. There were many such technical innovations and contract design tricks used in Thane to get a successful outcome. The result is much fewer potholes, and nobody is in jail! Hence, best way to avoid road contract scams is to devise contract more cleverly, and use technology and engineering insights.





♦ Liked/hated this column? Write to Ajit Ranade at punemirror.feedback@gmail.com