http://www.nytimes.com/2016/09/04/business/international/venture-communism-how-china-is-building-a-start-up-boom.html
231
2
“From the central government all the way down to local governments, we have seen a lot of warm support,” said Li Liheng, co-founder and chief executive of Chemayi.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

For much of China’s long economic boom, young people flocked to manufacturing zones for jobs making bluejeans or iPhones. But today China is trying to move beyond just being the world’s factory floor. Policy makers want the next generation to find better-paying work in modern offices, creating the ideas, technologies and jobs to feed the country’s future growth.

Premier Li Keqiang frequently calls for “mass entrepreneurship.” In March at the National People’s Congress, he bragged that 12,000 new companies were founded each day in 2015.

The entrepreneurial embrace comes with lots of financial support. Across the country, officials are creating investment funds, providing cash subsidies and building incubators.

“Without these kinds of subsidies, you only rely on private money, and you wouldn’t see so many technology start-ups happening today,” said Ning Tao, a partner at Innovation Works, a venture capital fund in Beijing. “Without quantity, you cannot have quality.”

But the heavy spending is adding to worries about an inflating bubble in the world of China’s tiniest companies. Along with the government funds, venture capital money is flooding the country. About $49 billion in deals were made last year, making China second only to the United States, according to the accounting firm Ernst & Young.

Photo

Some economists and entrepreneurs are concerned that the government is helping fuel a frenzy that might ultimately result in failed businesses, wasted resources and financial losses. Just one city, Suzhou, near Shanghai, has announced it will open 300 incubators by 2020 to house 30,000 start-ups.

Beijing’s policy makers have a long history of giving favored companies easy access to loans and subsidies to propel certain industries, with both good and bad consequences. Though that tactic lubricated the nation’s industrialization, it also contributed to the excess that has buried the country in empty apartment blocks, mothballed cement plants and sputtering steel mills — all of which threaten the economy’s stability.

“I think the subsidies shouldn’t be a long-term policy,” Jin Xiangrong, an economist at Zhejiang University in Hangzhou, said of the start-up support programs. “They can lead to overcapacity like the kind we see now in China’s manufacturing sector, which is largely a result of government support.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Hangzhou city officials turned down requests for interviews.

The Children of Alibaba

At Dream Town, Mr. Li, 39, frets more about his own business. He got the initial idea for Chemayi in 2009 after a car accident. To find a trustworthy mechanic, he searched online, asked friends for advice and visited repair shops.

But Mr. Li found it difficult to judge who was reliable. A car culture — and all the services that come with it — is relatively new in China.

Aiming to fill the information void, he and three friends set up Chemayi in 2013 with 5 million renminbi (currently $750,000) of their own money. For an annual fee, Chemayi sends out staff members to help fix flat tires, paint scratches or repair broken-down engines.

“Henry Ford is gone for so many years, but we are still driving his cars,” Mr. Li said. “I felt that I also must pursue a cause that will persist after I’m gone.”

Chemayi beat out more than two dozen other start-ups for a coveted space in Dream Town in a 2014 competition. Another co-founder, Ouyang Feng, delivered a 40-minute presentation to a panel of judges who peppered him with questions about Chemayi’s business model and future prospects. The provincial governor watched over the grilling.

In the end, the committee awarded Chemayi a three-foot golden key that symbolically opened the doors to Dream Town.

Chemayi now has 284 employees in four cities, with plans to reach 1,000 by the end of the year. Mr. Li said his company had raised $22 million in private money and turned a profit of about 10 million renminbi last year.

Photo

“A lot of Chinese people want to be successful. They want to initiate change through innovation,” Mr. Li said in his spacious corner office, while fussing with a traditional Chinese wooden tea-making set. “That is a formidable power.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Hangzhou is a natural center for China’s start-up fever. After China embraced capitalist reform in the 1980s, Zhejiang province, of which Hangzhou is the capital, emerged as a leading base for the export industries that fueled the country’s rapid growth. Factories pumped out products like socks and plastic Christmas trees.

Now that zeal for commerce is being channeled into technology start-ups. Hangzhou is home to China’s most famous internet company, the e-commerce giant Alibaba, which has become a training ground for would-be entrepreneurs.

The neighborhoods near Alibaba’s sprawling campus, once a poorly developed area on the city’s outskirts, now make up a budding tech center with newly built office parks like Dream Town, dominated by ambitious college graduates, angel investors and venture capitalists. The local restaurants have become hangouts to exchange ideas and gossip over fried squid and stewed pork and eggs.

Feng Xiao is typical of this new breed. Mr. Feng, 39 and a Hangzhou native, spent 11 years at Alibaba, mainly in sales and marketing.

“There is a Chinese proverb, ‘The soil is too rich,’” Mr. Feng said. Alibaba “offered you a lot of opportunities. It was easy to have a sense of success. But I wanted to be able to start from scratch.”

His start-up was born in Alibaba’s cafeteria, where he ate meal after meal. “I really missed Mom’s cooking,” he said. He figured that many other people, trapped working for long hours far from home, felt the same.

Mr. Feng and two other Alibaba employees left their jobs in 2014 and opened a food delivery service, Mishi. Their plan was to connect people willing to prepare homemade meals with on-the-go professionals who were too busy to cook. They set up shop in a friend’s empty house, decorated with secondhand furniture and photos from home.

Along with raising $19 million from private investors, Mishi caught the eye of the Hangzhou city government. In 2014, district officials awarded Mishi 5 million renminbi to help pay the bills. Its rent in a Hangzhou office park is also subsidized.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“The most important thing on the part of the government is whether they are open” to new types of businesses, Mr. Feng said. “We are glad to see they are aggressively supporting us.”