http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/egypt-shoopping-eating-tips-history-nile-trip-travel-lifetr/1/767270.html
90
9
It's not every day that you set foot in a land where every tomb has a story that dates back to an enigmatic world, where every wall spins a tale that takes us back in time and where one can easily find Greek, Roman, Arabic and French culture, all together yet distinct. It is not every day that you land in Egypt.



Egyptians, one must know, are welcoming and known for their hospitality. They are very proud of their history and have made every effort to keep it alive. It is a land that has seen Pyramids, Cleopatra, Alexander, the Great, Tutakhamun. Needless to say, the country is a holy place not just for Muslims but also for Christians and Jews. An added attraction is the fact that they are a huge fan of Indian cinema. A civilisation that prospered on the Nile Valley, Egypt is now a perfect holiday destination for history, marine and landscape enthusiasts, in spite of the upheavals and turmoil that troubled the country recently

HISTORY

If you want to cover the entire length and breadth of the country, you will need a month in hand --the historic monuments, beaches, deserts and oases will ensure that a month passes in the blink of an eye. However, in a short trip, you can cover Cairo, Ismalia, Alexandria, Luxor and Aswan. These cities form a historical trail that would acquaint you with 60 per cent of Egypt. Keep a budget of USD 500 to USD 1000 for this. Egypt offers 50 per cent discount to student travellers. Students should not forget their ID cards and if possible even carry a letter from the college and it is worth the effort. You can start your trip from Luxor, where you must drop by the Valley of Kings--it has tombs of various Egyptian rulers including that of Tutakhuman. The tombs are colourfully scripted in hieroglyphic alphabets and you cannot mask the chill that runs through your spine on spotting Tutakhuman's mummy preserved in the tomb he was buried in.





Photo: Mail Today

Also, visit the Luxor temple, Karnak and the Mummification Museum where you can find other mummified human beings and animals. From Luxor, take a luxurious cruise to Aswan where you must visit The Great Philae Temple or the Temple of Isis (Goddess of Friendship and Love) and the Aswan Dam built on the lake Nasser. You can even take a hot air balloon for an aero-view of Luxor.

Also Read: REVEALED: Two hidden rooms behind King Tutankhamun's burial chamber in Egypt!

It will cost you around USD 100 but it is totally worth it. In Cairo, besides the obvious Sphinx and Pyramids in Giza, go to the Cairo Museum that has more than 1,60,000 artefacts including the oldest documented stone and the oldest chessboard. One should also explore Old Cairothat has the Coptic church where Jesus supposedly took bath while on the run as an infant from Romans. In Giza, you can take a camel ride to go around the desert and the pyramids. The price for a camel ride begins at 100 Egyptian pounds and you can enter the Pyramids for a cost of 200 Egyptian pounds. The best way to spend your evening in Cairo is to go for a cruise dinner on the Nile river.





Photo: Mail Today

For a slice of elegance, dress up for the Nile Maxim Dinner Cruise. Operated by Marriott Hotels, the cruise boat dinner has exquisite dinner followed by performances by a belly dancer, a Tanoora show and a live band. From Cairo you can either take a train to Alexandria or travel on road. Alexandria was established by Alexander the Great. You can find Greek influence. Cleopatra grew up in the city. Alexandria is a famous weekend holiday destination.

You can also travel to Ismalia to see the Suez Canal. If you want to arrange a sail on the canal, put in a word with either Egypt Tourism or Indian Embassy in Egypt. Try to spend more time in Luxor, two days should be enough for Aswan and three days in Cairo.

FOOD

Egypt is a heaven for gluttons. You cannot have enough of it. The cuisine which is an amalgam of Mediterranean, Europen, African and the Middle Eastern is fit for vegetarians and non vegetarians. Vegetarians must try the popular falafel sandwiches and koshary that are primarily vegetarian cuisines. The food is cheap in Egpyt. You can get a falafel sandwich for two to eight Egyptian pounds. You cannot miss Koshary--pasta rice inspired from Indian khichdi. It is the national dish of Egypt and is a vegetarian cuisine that would cost you not over eight Egyptian pounds. Hog on one of the best sea food in the world, meat shawarma and pigeon meat.





Photo: Mail Today

Each dish is served with fresh salad, hummus or Tahina and pita bread. You can begin your day with a bowl of healthy and delicious cious fava beans that hotels usually keep in their breakfast buffet. For coffee lovers, Turkish coffee is a must try and for teetotalers--Hibiscus juice cannot be missed. While Egyptians are fond of spices and herbs, the food joints and restaurants usually make the food bland and serve with the various spices that can be added as per taste.

Also Read: Visual tour of Egypt's Mount Moses

SHOPPING

Egypt is popular for its papyrus, ehtar and stones. However, before buying, ensure that you are making purchases only from government approved shops as tourists are taken for a ride with fake products. For papyrus, you can visit Old Cairo Papyrus Museum in Cairo. The starting range of a papyrus painting is around 300 Egyptian Pounds. Another interesting take away is the Ehtar (incense). Ehtar is different from India ittar as Ehtar is made from fermented juice of flowers while ittar is made from fresh flower juice. You can buy Ehtars from Golden Eagle Crystal in Giza. The range for a 30ml bottle of Ehtar would begin from a reasonable amount of USD 30. If you want to buy more, you may get discounts. When in Cairo, do not forget to visit the one of world’s oldest living markets Khan-el-Khalili. It dates back to the 14th century. It is just like Colaba causeway or Sarojini and Lajpat Nagar market. You can pick up some souvenirs, antiques and silver jewellery. It is a beautiful market with colourfully lit alleys with small cafes. You can even buy elegant hookas or shishas. But do make sure you put your bargaining skills to its best use.

DOS AND DON'TS

It is important to respect the local culture. While Egypt is a liberal Islamic state, avoid wearing short dresses and have your shoulders covered. Egypt is dry and hot. Make sure you carry sunscreen and keep your head covered to protect yourself from the heatstroke. Keep water handy or you can also carry lime water. Do not plan to visit any site on Friday as it is a weekend for the country. Please keep a guide book at hand that is easily available at a local tourist information centre. Keep a track of opening times for places to visit so that you can make most from your trip. Do not forget to carry your camera.

PLANNING A TRIP?

If you are going through a travel agency, then you almost have your plan sorted. But for those making individual trips can write to Egypt Tourism and ask for assistance. The Egypt Tourism would not only help you find an economic travel option but also recommend choices for accommodation, conveyance and tour guides. You can write to Rehab Sameer, Egypt Tourism on Rehabsameer@egypt.travel or touristrelations@egypt.travel.

