http://www.express.co.uk/news/uk/700146/EU-sends-record-189-million-to-Nigeria-and-Cameroon-in-2016-and-you-re-still-paying
90
9
GETTY A man wearing a Unicef charity t-shirt sells black market fuel to motorists

According to new figures released by the commission a new £10m pot of additional emergency assistance money was sent to support people last week. Of that £7 million was sent to Nigeria, £1.7 million to Cameroon and £1.3 million in Niger. The money, which is intended for starving refugees in the Lake Chad basin, was transferred at the same time the UN put a halt on aid after Boko Haram ambushed a humanitarian convoy. Western aid officials have criticised Nigerian government’s handling of its terror crisis saying President Muhammadu Buhari, the country’s Muslim president, is using some of the aid to persecute Christian political rivals.

GETTY David Cameron and President Muhammadu Buhari at an anti corruption conference in London

Increased tensions between the government and southern Nigeria, which is predominantly Christian, intensified in May when the military killed 15 people during a peaceful protest. The EU report states: "Nigeria is the worst hit country by the regional humanitarian crisis." According to the Britain’s Department for International Development £870 million has been earmarked to send to Nigeria to 2019 support the government and aid agencies as well as money to fight Boko Haram. But despite the funds little has been done to actually curb their rise.

GETTY Food and petrol shortages have led to lucrative illegal trade

A source told the Telegraph: "One of the reasons we have this humanitarian crisis in northern Nigeria is that Mr Buhari is diverting vital resources away from the campaign to pursue his own political agenda. “The Nigerian government, which is receiving significant amounts of foreign aid, needs to understand that its main priority is to deal with Boko Haram, and also to make sure Nigeria does not suffer the worst humanitarian disaster in its history.” Last month Nigeria announced plans to begin exploratory drilling in search of oil in the northeastern Chad Basin in two months.