http://www.4-traders.com/ISIGN-MEDIA-SOLUTIONS-INC-11360090/news/iSIGN-Media-Provides-an-Update-of-iSIGN-and-We-Build-Apps-Agreement-for-US-Market-23196928/
90
9
TORONTO , Oct. 11, 2016 /CNW/ - iSIGN Media Solutions Inc. ( "iSIGN" or "Company") (TSX-V: ISD) (OTC: ISDSF), a leading provider of interactive mobile advertising solutions that serves brands, commercial locations, retailers and service providers throughout North America

On October 5 and 6, 2016 meetings were held in Cleveland, Ohio with our reseller, We Build Apps, LLC ("WBA") and their legal representative. IPX Communications , the installation company and the agreed upon leasing company being used by WBA were represented by legal counsel and their services were confirmed during these meetings.

During the course of those meetings, the principal terms that will govern the relationship of iSIGN and WBA were discussed, mutually agreed upon and signed by both parties.

Initial shipment of the Smart Antennas required for installation into the shopping complex site, will commence once units have been prepared for shipment. Payment for these units will be on a COD basis, with the initial shipping anticipated to be completed the week of October 17, 2016 .

Upon payment of the 500 Smart Antennas required by WBA , iSIGN will grant to WBA exclusive reseller status for the State of Ohio and nationally for the United States military.

About iSIGN Media

iSIGN Media, based in Toronto , is a data-focused, software-as-a-service (SaaS) company that is a pioneering leader in gathering point-of-sale data and mobile shopper preferences to generate actionable data and reveal valuable consumer insights. Creators of the Smart suite of products, a patented interactive proximity marketing technology, iSIGN enables brands to deliver targeted messaging, personalized offers and loyalty perks to consumers' mobile devices in proximity and with real-time proof of redemption. iSIGN's data gathering capabilities provide analytics on price points, typical purchases, in-store dwell time and other shopper metrics that identify emerging consumer behaviors. These insights enable smarter business decisions and provide increased ROI metrics for more transparent marketing. iSIGN delivers relevant, timely messages on an opt-in basis at no charge to consumers, transmitting rich media to consumer mobile devices via Bluetooth® and WiFi connectivity in complete privacy as opposed to iBeacons, apps, downloads and required surrendering of personal information. Proven to increase brand engagement and customer loyalty, iSIGN generates preference-based, predictive "clean data" without compromising consumer privacy. Partners include: IBM, Keyser Retail Solutions, Baylor University , Verizon Wireless , TELUS and AOpen America Inc. www.isignmedia.com

Forward-Looking Statements

This news release may include certain forward-looking statements that are based upon current expectations, which involve risks and uncertainties associated with iSIGN Media's business and the environment in which the business operates. Any statements contained herein that are not statements of historical facts may be deemed to be forward-looking, including those identified by the expressions "anticipate", "believe", "plan", "estimate", "expect", "intend" and similar expressions to the extent they relate to the Company or its management. The forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but reflect iSIGN Media's current expectations regarding future results or events. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from current expectations. iSIGN Media assumes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements, or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those reflected in the forward-looking statements.

© 2016 iSIGN Media Solutions Inc. All Rights Reserved. All other trademarks and trade names are the property of their respective owners.

Neither the TSX Venture Exchange nor Its Regulation Services Provider (as that term is defined in the policies of the TSX Venture Exchange ) accepts responsibility or accuracy of this release.

SOURCE iSIGN Media Solutions Inc , Alex Romanov Chief Executive Officer