http://m.philstar.com/nation/show/39490664efbdd8e066b42372b09e3618?t=2k1dmm901vd734nqe8jaurnup0
90
9
9 drug suspects slain

MANILA, Philippines – Nine more drug suspects were killed in separate incidents, seven of them in stings, in the past two days.

Rey Bonaobra, who was ranked ninth on the drug watchlist of the Albay police, drew his gun when he sensed that he had sold shabu to undercover agents in Barangay Nagcalsot in Rapu-Rapu town at around 5 a.m. yesterday, police said.

Fortune Caoile and a man who has yet to be identified were killed in an anti-drug operation in Barangay Sta. Justina in Buhi, Camarines Sur at around 8:30 p.m. on Monday.

A man identified only as Fhaizal was killed in a reported shootout with police during a drug sting in Barangay Datu Esmael in Dasmariñas City, Cavite on Monday.

Jhurenz Orcas drowned when he jumped into the sea during a raid on his house in Barangay 42-C Pinagbuklod in Cavite City at around 5 a.m. yesterday, said Senior Superintendent Rex Anongos, Criminal Investigation and Detection Group regional director.

In Laguna, Elvin Roy Lacbay, 21, alias Jopet, died in an alleged firefight with police officers in the boundary of Pagsanjan and Sta. Cruz towns also yesterday.

Jeepney driver Reynaldo Arenas, 54, was waiting for passengers in Barangay Minien in Sta. Barbara town in Pangasinan when motorcycle-riding suspects fired at him on Monday.

Joemen Garcia, 18, was sleeping in his room in Barangay Matic-Matic when an unidentified man who barged into his house shot him at around 9:15 p.m. also on Monday.

In La Union, Ariel Ibay, a newly identified drug suspect, allegedly shot it out with police officers who chased him when he did not pull over at a checkpoint in Barangay Alipang in Rosario town on Monday.

Ibay was pronounced dead on arrival at the Rosario District Hospital.

Police said the fatalities, who were on drug watchlists, yielded sachets of shabu and guns.

Meanwhile, in Ilocos Sur, marijuana bricks with an estimated value of P800,000 were confiscated from a jeepney driver at a police checkpoint in Barangay Alilem Daya in Alilem town on Monday.

Nardo Itso, 42, who was supposed to transport the illegal drugs to Sudipen, La Union, was arrested.

Five suspected drug pushers were arrested in stings in Taytay and Rodriguez, Rizal; six in Pangasinan and one each in Mercedes, Camarines Norte; Libmanan, Camarines Sur and Bataan on Monday. Three others were arrested during a pot session in Rizal, Kalinga. – Eva Visperas, Celso Amo, Jun Elias, Ed Amoroso, Raymund Catindig, Cesar Ramirez, Francis Elevado, Non Alquitran, Raffy Viray