http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3818854/Police-look-Ben-Needham-s-toys-Miniature-cars-playing-day-disappeared-never-found.html
90
9
Two toy cars and a pair of shorts from the day Ben Needham went missing have never been found, police confirmed last night.

The revelation came as the family of the toddler who vanished 25 years ago said they were 'incredibly grateful' to trained volunteers on the Greek island of Kos who were giving up their free time to search for Ben.

On the day of his disappearance in July 1991, the 21-month-old boy, from Sheffield, south Yorkshire, had wet his shorts which his grandmother had washed and hung on a tree to dry.

Detective Inspector Jon Cousins, from South Yorkshire Police (pictured in white shirt) told the Mail that two toys cars and a pair of blue and turquoise coloured shorts were a focus of the investigation into Ben's disappearance

His grandmother Christine Needham, has previously revealed that she remembers Ben crashing the two matchbox style cars together.

The toys and shorts have never been found despite specialist equipment being used in 2012, police have said.

Although officers have retrieved pieces of fabric on the site, they believe they are not likely to be remnants of the boy's shorts and have not found his DNA on them – but are not able to 'rule anything out'.

Remains of toys found during earlier searches near the farmhouse in the village of Iraklis are also not like the cars Ben was playing with that day, his family told police.

Volunteers on the Greek Island of Kos have joined the South Yorkshire Police team members (pictured) to help search the area

Speaking yesterday, Detective Inspector Jon Cousins, from South Yorkshire Police told the Mail that the cars and blue and turquoise coloured shorts were still a focus of the investigation into Ben's disappearance.

Asked about the toys and the elasticated shorts, he said: 'We are still looking for those'.

He added that fragments of clothing found in 2012 had been examined but the 'level of interest (in those) is still low'.

Investigators will continue to comb the land for pieces of fabric or any possible remnants of what could have been a toy car in the coming days in the hope that it might provide them with clues of what happened to Ben.

Ben Needham was just 21-months-old when he disappeared from the village of Iraklise, Kos, in July 1991

Volunteers at the site confirmed they were specifically hunting for any fragments of clothing or toys which could be embedded in the soil.

Hellenic Red Cross member, Alex Pantelidis, who normally works as a salesman on the island said yesterday: 'We search for bone fragments, small pieces of toys, small clothes, something interesting for the British police.'

British officers have been deployed to the island following a £1million funding boost to the campaign by the Home Office. They are being assisted by Greek police and dozens of volunteers.

Members of the Greek rescue services work at the search site of missing toddler Ben Needham yesterday

Officers returned to the island last month to reexamine the site where Ben vanished after a new witness came forward and claimed the toddler had been knocked over and buried by a local digger driver.

DI Cousins thanked the helpers from the Red Cross and the Hellenic Rescue Team adding: 'They dedicate their free time to come here and help us out.'

Many are carrying out the search alongside their day jobs and the team consists of doctors, teachers, army officers, a salesman and a lifeguard.

Last week, lifeguard Rafael Gerasklis, 25, told of how he had grown up on the island of Kos hearing about 'little Ben' and had felt compelled to help the family obtain answers.

Volunteers have been examining debris after sifting through excavated soil

A statement from the Needham family, read by DI Cousins yesterday said: 'We are so incredibly thankful for the help and support of the volunteer search teams working with officers in Iraklis.

The Needham family thanked everyone who is trying to help in the investigation

'To know that people are giving up their own time and are as desperate as we are to find answers about what happened to Ben is something we will be eternally grateful for.

'We've been told that volunteers are coming to the site on their days off, or straight from work, and we honestly can't thank them enough for that and for their dedication.'

They added: 'We honestly can't say it enough but once again, thank you to the team and to the people of Kos for your continued support and commitment in helping us to find answers about what happened to Ben.'

Police will today start their eight day of searches on a piece of land surrounding a farmhouse where Ben went missing in 1991 while playing outside.