http://newsday.co.tt/crime_and_court/0,234411.html
94
9
A d v e r t i s e m e n t

Three in court for bail fraud

Tuesday, October 11 2016

THREE persons, among them a husband and wife, appeared in the San Fernando Magistrates’ court yesterday charged with fraud in connection with the granting of bail for an accused person. The arrest of the three occurred last week Friday following investigations conducted by Fraud Squad detectives headed by Snr Supt Totaram Dookhie.

Appearing before Senior Magistrate Nanette Forde-John yesterday were Veronica Lall and her husband Vijay Lall both of Paporie Road, Diamond Village and David Moses Gow, 47, of Tarodale, Ste Madeleine.



They were arrested outside the San Fernando Magistrates’ Court last Friday. Magistrate Forde-John read the charge against the trio that on Thursday September 22, at San Fernando Magistrates’ Court, they conspired to pervert the course of public justice.



The particulars of the offence as read out in court alleges that persons uttered a document purported to be an extract from the Court’s Case Book dated August 28, for case No. 573/16. The case involved, Forde-John read to the three accused, Police Constable Morris versus Donovan Jaggernauth and Sylvenus Grant, for the offence of possession of marijuana. The charges allege that the uttering of the forged case book extract was for the purpose of obtaining bail for accused Clifford David, knowing same to be forged and with intent to defraud.



Attorney Chateram Sinanan represented the Lalls while attorney Ainsley Lucky appeared for Moses. Magistrate Forde-John asked court prosecutor PC Cleyon Seedan if there was any material evidence to disclose to the attorneys.



Seedan said that the file would be sent to the office of the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) for advice on whether the police would prosecute or if an attorney from the State would be appointed.



A decision would also be made, he added, on whether the case would be pursued against the trio summarily (trial in the Magistrates Court) or indictably (trial before a judge and jury if so ordered at the end of a preliminary inquiry hearing in the lower courts).



The three were allowed continued bail in the sum of $50,000 and the case was adjourned to December 7.







