http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/how-centre-dropped-the-ball-in-televangelist-zakir-naik-case/1/757541.html
90
9
Highlights 1 DoPT wanted a notice to be served to suspended joint secretary GK Dwivedi.

2 Dwivedi himself recommended putting IRF in the "prior reference" category.

3 Lapses in dealing with IRF's file were reported between 2013 and 2015.

Putting controversial televangelist Zakir Naik's Islamic Research Foundation (IRF) on a watch list would have spared the Narendra Modi government's blushes, say sources, with a controversy swirling after four officials were suspended over the renewal of the organisation's foreign funding licence.

The Centre sat on a recommendation to put IRF under the "prior reference" category that would prevent it from receiving overseas donations without getting a clearance from the home ministry.

DWIVEDI FINDS SUPPORT IN HIS COLLEAGUES IN MHA

Sources say there are differing views in the government over the suspension of joint secretary GK Dwivedi who was overseeing the functioning of foreign-funded NGOs registered under FCRA.

"The Department of Personnel Training (DoPT) responsible for administrative functioning of IAS officers had expressed reservations and wanted a notice to be served to Dwivedi but the home ministry pressed for immediate action," said a government official.

Naik's organisation has come under the scanner amid fears that his hardline views could radicalise youth after it was alleged that some of the gunmen who launched a deadly attack on a cafe in Bangladesh about two months ago were influenced by his sermons.

IRREGULARITIES IN RENEWAL OF NAIK'S NGO LICENCE

The home ministry has ordered an inquiry into the circumstances under which the IRF's Foreigner's Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) licence was renewed after it expired last month.

Dwivedi himself recommended putting IRF in the "prior reference" category, but no action was taken. Several lapses in dealing with the foundation's file were also reported between 2013 and 2015 while disciplinary action was advised against four officers.

A decision was taken to put Naik's NGO under scrutiny for inspiring Muslim youth to follow radical Islam and indulge in terror activities but there was no action on it and it could not be implemented, sources said.

As of now there are close to 20 bodies in this category. US-based Ford Foundation was also put under a watch list last year but was taken off it a few months ago.

MHA WOKE UP AFTER DHAKA TERROR ATTACK

Sources said the home ministry swung into action only after the Dhaka attack even though counter-terror agencies had flagged the controversial Islamic preacher.

Terror investigators had pointed out that in several cases attackers had revealed in their interrogation that Naik's views inspired them to follow the path of extremism.

Bangladesh banned IRF after a probe into the Dhaka siege during which 20 people were killed indicated the preacher's influence. It was only after an IRF spokesperson in Mumbai made a statement about the renewal of the licence was action taken against the home ministry officials.

Following reports from Dhaka, Dwivedi, who was in-charge of FCRA, sought reports from the Intelligence Bureau and various state governments before sending a questionnaire to the foundation on August 8.

He had also raised the issue of an anomaly in the online renewal system put in place earlier this year to cut out any human interface. The software did not "redflag" NGOs under scrutiny and a list had to be maintained manually, leaving gaps in the system.

Currently there are close to 700 NGOs in the list, sources said. This was shared with the National Informatics Centre (NIC) responsible for setting up e-governance platforms, but the problem could not be rectified. Dwivedi found support in his colleagues in the home ministry as well.

ALSO READ:

MHA renewed our foreign fund license last week, says Zakir Naik's IRF

