http://www.4-traders.com/THAI-AIRWAYS-INTERNATIONA-6491677/news/Thai-Airways-International-PCL-CAAT-director-gets-the-boot-22926061/
90
9
Aug. 19 -- Civil Aviation Authority of Thailand (CAAT) director Alongkot Poolsuk was abruptly suspended from work, despite his approved resignation.

Sources said Sqn Ldr Alongkot was removed from the post due to his unimpressive performance after an order signed Thursday by Prime Minister Prayut Chan -o-cha, who used the powerful Section 44 of the interim charter.

The suspension comes three months after Sqn Ldr Alongkot became the first director of the CAAT. His term was supposed to run for two years from May 16 .

CAAT replaced the country's Department of Civil Aviation . Its mission is to improve Thai aviation standards in the hope the International Civil Aviation Organisation's (ICAO) will lift its red flag over the industry.

ICAO issued the red flag warning indicating significant safety concerns in June last year following Thailand's failure to meet standards in regulating aviation businesses and granting air operator certificates.

The immediate suspension of Sqn Ldr Alongkot, former managing director overseeing aviation resource development at Thai Airways International (THAI), was executed under an order signed by Gen Prayut.

Under the same order, Chula Sukmanop, director-general of the Department of Airports , will be appointed CAAT director on Oct 1 . He will serve as acting director until his official appointment.

Sqn Ldr Alongkot is entitled to receive his salary until his official resignation date of Sept 30 .

Chartchai Tipsunave, permanent secretary for transport in his capacity as chairman of the CAAT board, said Sqn Ldr Alongkot had cited health problems as reasons to support his resignation submitted on Wednesday.

In a phone interview, Sqn Ldr Alongkot only briefly mentioned health problems including high blood pressure that might affect his work.

Mr Chartchai said the order to appoint Mr Chula as new CAAT director bypassed the normal process so the next step is to draft an employment contract.

Gen Prayut's order left the window open for Mr Chula to return to his previous post, or an equivalent one, after he leaves the CAAT.

Rumours emerged two weeks ago that Sqn Ldr Alongkot would be dismissed due to the fact that Transport Minister Arkhom Termpittayapaisith wasn't impressed with his progress in resolving the ICAO problem, said a CAAT source.

According to observers, Sqn Ldr Alongkot was also facing intense pressure from top authorities to restructure the civil aviation authority, something that proved to be more complex and problematic than expected.

Meanwhile, airline executives said the change of leadership at the CAAT would also stall the issuing of CAAT licences and seriously affect their business.

A source at the Transport Ministry said Mr Chula had already played an important role in efforts to prepare a report that will be submitted to the European Aviation Safety Agency next month.

Mr Chula , meanwhile, said he was ready to take responsibility at the CAAT.

Mr Chula is due for mandatory retirement in nine years, so he has been given a chance to return to the ministry and finish his mission, said the CAAT source, adding that Mr Chula has a good chance to become a permanent secretary for transport in the future.

___

(c)2016 the Bangkok Post (Bangkok, Thailand)

Visit the Bangkok Post (Bangkok, Thailand) at www.bangkokpost.com

Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.