http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/ben-needham-search-team-expect-8914721
10
1
Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

Police have revealed they expect to find "hundreds of bones" in a field as they start digging for missing toddler Ben Needham.

A team of 19 are involved in the dig - police officers, forensic examiners and an archaeologist. - are carrying out a delicate search of an olive grove which is being treated as the potential burial site.

This morning surveying equipment was brought onto the land in Makris in Kos, which has been used by farmers to keep pigs chickens and sheep.

The coarse scrubland site - a five-minute drive east of the island's historic harbour capital - is expected to have hundreds of animal bones.

The South Yorkshire Police team, led by Detective Superintendent Matt Fenwick, warned progress could be painstaking, with the first dig expected to last up to 12 days.

Detectives are said to have carried out initial inquiries at the site, with experts testing soil and surveying the area with drones.

British and Greek Police begin a search for clues in the Ben Needham case at the farmhouse where he was last seen

Reuters South Yorkshire police officers and members of the Greek rescue service (in red uniforms) investigate the ground before commencing excavating a site for Ben Needham, a 21 month old British toddler who went missing in 1991, on the island of Kos, Greece

Daily Mirror/Philip Coburn British and Greek Police begin a search for clues in the Ben Needham case at the farmhouse where he was last seen

The land is accessed by a narrow track into the hills and beyond the sprawling luxury hotels on the seafront, where all-inclusive patrons sup on their refreshments.

It is here where, on July 24 1991, Ben Needham was last seen.

Video loading Watch next Watch this video again Watch Next Click to play Tap to play The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

His grandfather was helping renovate a property in the area when the boy, who was on holiday with his mother Kerry, from Sheffield, vanished.

Detective inspector Jon Cousins said that police had already interviewed the family of "Konstantinos "Dino" Barkas - the digger driver at the centre of the mystery who died last year. He said the family were co-operating.

Reuters South Yorkshire police officers and members of the Greek rescue service (in red uniforms) investigate the ground before commencing excavating a site for Ben Needham

Daily Mirror / Philip Coburn Police examine evidence at the scene

Reuters A South Yorkshire police officer investigates the ground before commencing excavating a site for Ben Needham, a 21 month old British toddler who went missing in 1991, on the island of Kos

DI Cousins said he was "optimistic" they would find something that would end the mystery.

He said: "This farmland has been farmed for many many hundreds of years and as a result we will be finding many hundreds of bones each of which will have to be very carefully looked at.

"Work will continue tirelessly once everything has been assessed."

Ben's mother Kerry Needham, from Sheffield, has been told to "prepare for the worst" by South Yorkshire Police who suspect he may have died in an accident 25 years ago.

The new line of inquiry suggests the 21-month-old may have been crushed to death by a digger near a farmhouse his grandparents were renovating in July 1991.

Daily Mirror / Philip Coburn Police examine evidence at the scene

AP Excavations begun at a farmland on the Aegean island of Kos as new information suggested British boy Ben Needham could have been crushed to death by a digger

Daily Mirror/Philip Coburn British and Greek Police begin a search for clues in the Ben Needham case at the farmhouse where he was last seen

Konstantinos Barkas, also known as Dino, was clearing land with an excavator close to where Ben was playing on the day he vanished and may be responsible for his death, a friend of the builder has reportedly told police.

The driver died of stomach cancer last year, months before detectives from South Yorkshire Police arrived on the island for a renewed investigation.

But Mr Barkas's widow Varvara strongly dismissed any suggestions her late husband had killed Ben in an accident.

A variety of theories on his fate and reported sightings have arisen since his disappearance and Ms Needham had been holding out hope that she would one day be reunited with her son.

PA

Video loading Click to play Tap to play The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

John Alevroyiannis

Last week, Mr Fenwick said: "There will be planned operational activity at two locations on the island that have been identified as areas of interest to the investigation.

"We continue to keep an open mind and have updated Ben's family about certain lines of inquiry we're currently exploring."

Earlier this year, South Yorkshire Police received extra funding from the Home Office to help in the search for Ben.

Ms Needham has been forthright in her support of Mr Fenwick's investigation.

In May, she jumped to the defence of the investigation team when they were pictured on the front page of a national newspaper drinking in the sunshine during a visit to Kos.

Mr Fenwick was called back from the island but a lawyer for Ms Needham wrote to the chief constable saying: "Ms Needham trusts the officers involved, believes they are working to the highest standards operationally and professionally and wishes there to be no disruption."