http://www.nytimes.com/2016/08/23/nyregion/new-york-police-struggle-to-generate-leads-in-murder-of-queens-jogger.html
90
9
Photo

On the map it is just a green fringe, nestled between Jamaica Bay and Howard Beach, Queens, but for the New York City detectives investigating the murder of a jogger it has revealed itself to be a desolate wilderness. Clearing the crime scene required machetes. The police now patrol the area daily on all-terrain vehicles.

In the three weeks since Karina Vetrano, 30, was strangled while on an evening jog through the wetlands and woods known as Spring Creek Park, investigators are struggling to generate leads, said one law enforcement official who was briefed on the investigation last week.

“This won’t be solved easily,” the law enforcement official said, explaining that the most promising initial lead — DNA evidence quite likely from the assailant — had not helped identify a suspect. The DNA evidence was found on Ms. Vetrano’s hands, her throat and her cellphone, the official said. But when a profile developed from the DNA at the crime scene was searched against the DNA profiles of known offenders, it did not result in a match.

That suggests that Ms. Vetrano’s killer has had little contact with the police in recent years. “It’s not a previously known assailant,” said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the investigation was continuing.

The case has sent a shiver through the city, both because of its echoes of the Central Park jogger case, one of the city’s most infamous crimes, but also because five days after Ms. Vetrano’s death, another New York woman, Vanessa Marcotte, was killed during a jog near her mother’s home in a small town in Massachusetts.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ms. Vetrano’s death has also resonated because of poignant details about her relationship with her father, Philip Vetrano, whose grief-stricken public appearances since her death have fueled more news media attention. Mr. Vetrano, a retired firefighter, usually jogged through the preserves with his daughter. But he had recently injured his back, so his daughter had been jogging there without him, despite his concerns about the safety of doing so.

At a news conference last week, Mr. Vetrano said he believed that the investigation was progressing toward a resolution. “We have a number of very, very strong leads, and there are a few suspects that are very interesting to the police,” he said, according to news reports. Mr. Vetrano called on the family of the killer to come forward, noting that there was considerable reward money, more than $250,000 so far.

But the same day as Mr. Vetrano’s news conference, however, the police commissioner, William J. Bratton, denied that the police had any suspects in their sight, according to news reports.

A call on Monday to Mr. Vetrano’s phone number was answered by a man who identified himself as a family member. Before hanging up, he insisted that there remained “a number of leads and a number of suspects.”

So far the New York Police Department has received 77 tips relating to the case, a police department spokesman, J. Peter Donald, said. Whether any of them lead anywhere useful remains to be seen. Ever since Ms. Vetrano’s body was found on Aug. 2, detectives are often spotted around the edge of the park, some 220 acres of federal national parkland.

“The investigation remains very active and ongoing and we are encouraging anyone who might know something — however small it may seem — to contact the police,” Mr. Donald said, adding that detectives were still actively searching for any video of the area taken around the time of the attack.

The police have been asking residents along 165th Avenue, which runs on one edge of the park, for any footage from any private surveillance cameras they might have in their yards. And the police have also installed a camera at one of the park’s entrances, said Jim Buttner, who lives just across the street from the entrance.

While some news reports have suggested the area was teeming with vagrants, Mr. Buttner said the park was usually empty. Birders prefer a nearby sanctuary. Homeless people tend to camp closer to civilization, by the Joseph P. Addabbo Memorial Bridge, also nearby.

Mr. Buttner said only fisherman regularly frequented the park. They often walk to the end of 165th Avenue, cross into the park and pick up a trail that leads south to the water, said Mr. Buttner, 74, who has lived by the park’s main entrance on 165th Avenue and Cross Bay Boulevard since 1971.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Daphne Yun, a spokeswoman with the National Park Service, said that park police had searched the area twice since the murder for any people living there. “They went through and they did not find anyone,” Ms. Yun said.