http://news2.onlinenigeria.com/news/general/537549-2nd-year-anniversary-fayose-his-beats-chest-says-we-have-restored-hope-in-ekiti.html
90
9
Home | News | General | 2nd year anniversary: Fayose his beats chest, says we have restored hope in Ekiti

By Rotimi Ojomoyela

Ado-Ekiti State Governor, Mr Ayodele Fayose, Tuesday declared that his administration’s Six-Point Agenda focusing on empowerment, development of agriculture, infrastructural development, education, science and technology, health and security has been faithfully implemented.

The governor, who spoke through the Secretary to the State Government, Dr Mrs Modupe Alade, in Ado-Ekiti on Tuesday while briefing newsmen on activities of the government in the last two years, said his administration has lived up to expectation as one that is labelled ‘Government of Restoration’, two years after coming into office.

Mrs Alade, who was flanked by top government officials, said the achievements of the government could be seen in great improvement in performance of students from the state in public examinations, as well as the provision of social amenities despite lean resources.

“Restoration has come for the education sector under the Ayodele Fayose administration with the record breaking score of 96.48 percent performance of Ekiti Senior Secondary three students in the 2016 National Examinations Council exams, to emerge an enviable first position in Nigeria,”she said.

The SSG said the feat was achieved by religiously implementing the recommendations of the Education Summit organised by the state government in September 2015.

“These crystalised in the progressive performance chart of students in public examinations from 29th position with an average 58 percent in 2014 to 18th position with an average 74.5 percent in 2015 and now to the enviable position of first in 2016 with a percentage score of 96.48 percent for the first time in the history of NECO.

“Performance in the West African School Certificate Examinations also gives reason to cheer from 25 percent in 2014, to 37 percent in 2015 and now 42 percent in 2016. While for the School of Nursing, it has been a consistent 98 percent pass in 2015 and 2016. And for the School of Midwifery, it has been all time high of 100 percent score in 2015 and 2016 in national examinations conducted by the National Council of Nurses and Midwives,” she said.

Mrs Alade added that economic recession notwithstanding, the state government embarked on and executed a lot of projects across the state.

She listed them to include dualisation of roads in Ado, Ikere, Emure, Efon, Ikole, Ise, while a flyover is being built in Ado-Ekiti.

While soliciting support for Governor Fayose, the SSG stated that the administration would not leave any project abandoned, saying before embarking on any project, the administration always ensured that the fund to execute it was already on ground.

Rate this article 0

CLICK HERE TO READ MORE FROM: General