http://dailytimes.com.pk/sindh/11-Oct-16/thieves-ransack-shops-in-historic-empress-market
90
9
KARACHI: Thieves have broken the foolproof security of the police as a part of Muharram security plan and ransacked around a dozen of the shops in city's historical Empress Market and stolen cash and good worth millions of rupees during wee hour of Monday.

Although, Karachi police has sealed almost every exit and entry point around the Ashura procession route with shipping containers and buses on midnight Sunday including Saddar area of Karachi and since the Empress Market also lies on the route of the procession, the shopkeepers were directed to keep their shops closeed for three days and the police had also sealed it. Despite all the measures the thieves somehow managed to enter into the market and broke the locks of around a dozen of the shops and stole goods and cash.

The incident has created a feeling of insecurity among local shopkeepers of the area.

Preedy Police have arrested two suspicious watchmen of the market, identified as Abdul Hameed and Usman Ghani for interrogation into the matter but no any case has been registered till the filing of this report .

On contact, Station House Officer (SHO) Preedy Police Station, Aurangzeb Khatak confirmed the news and said since the market was sealed, so no one could have entered from outside and there are possibilities that guards have broken the locks and stolen the goods themselves .

"We have arrested two watchmen and both have said that three to four unidentified thieves tied them with ropes, but we doubt that they both did this themselves , we are investigating the incident," said Khatak.

Police further informed that the case will be registered when the members of market's union will contact them and provide details of stolen goods or cash. The Police is sure that the thieves could not be succeed in steeling a large amount of cash or valuables because shopkeepers had already been informed that their market will be closed for three days.

Police have further informed that CCTV cameras were not installed in the market so there is no footage to be examined.