http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3876672/Nato-squares-Putin-Russia-beefs-military-Europe-s-border-West-responds-biggest-force-Cold-War.html
91
9
Russia's military escalation on Europe's border has triggered the West's biggest show of force in the region since the Cold War as Nato continues to square up to Vladimir Putin.

Britain is to deploy troops, tanks and jets to Estonia to deter Russian aggression while UK and Romanian forces will also join a US battalion in Poland.

As part of the biggest military build-up in Eastern Europe since the Cold War, RAF planes are also being dispatched to patrol Romanian airspace for the first time.

The moves are designed to stop Moscow taking over or undermining its former Eastern European satellites as it has with Crimea and Ukraine.

The US is hoping for European nations to fill four battle groups of some 4,000 troops as part of Nato's response to Russia. More troops will be sent to the Baltic states and eastern Poland early next year. They will be backed by Nato's 40,000-strong rapid reaction force.

France, Denmark, Italy and other allies are expected to join the four battle groups led by the United States, Germany, Britain and Canada to go to Poland, Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia, with forces ranging from armoured infantry to drones.

It comes after Russia unveiled pictures of its largest ever nuclear missile – Satan 2 – which is capable of obliterating the UK.

The UK is sending 800 troops to Estonia as part of a Nato reaction to Russian aggression in Eastern Europe, with both sides increasing their military capability in eastern Europe in the biggest military build-up since the Cold War

Yesterday, Putin also reportedly launched an RS-18 ballistic missile, understood to be a test to see if it could defeat US defence systems.

And today, 130 military centres were put on high alert in Russia and six surrounding countries for drills on the region's ability to respond to attacks from the West.

In other developments:

Vladimir Putin upgraded the firepower of his Baltic Fleet with more ships and missiles;

40million Russians took part in four days of nuclear defence drills;

Spain cancelled plans to refuel Russian vessels heading for Syria.

Several Nato states, including Estonia, fear they could be next on President Putin's hit list. And fellow members, including the UK, have a legal duty to defend them.

The alliance's build-up will see 800 UK troops deployed to Estonia for six months from May. They will be relieved by soldiers from another Nato nation to keep up a continuous presence.

Sir Michael Fallon said the British mission would incorporate Challenger 2 tanks, Warrior vehicles and hand-held drones.

Britain is sending tanks, drones and 800 troops to Estonia as part of the biggest military build-up on Russia's borders since the Cold War. Russian president Vladimir Putin is pictured in the Black Sea resort of Yalta yesterday

The Royal Navy was placed on red alert last week after it emerged Russia was sailing a fleet of warships along the British coast en route to Syria

British Royal Navy type 45 destroyer HMS Duncan is pictured with its Wildcat helicopter as it shadows the Russian Carrier Task Group in the English Channel last week

Speaking at Nato headquarters in Brussels, the Defence Secretary added: 'This is Britain stepping up in Nato, beefing up the reassurance that we are able to offer.

'Although we are leaving the European Union, we will be doing more to help secure the eastern and southern flanks of Nato.'

An MoD spokesman added: 'The UK is stepping up its package of measures to support its allies in Europe, in the face of a more assertive Russia.'

Tensions between Russia and the West have escalated due to Moscow's indiscriminate bombing of civilians in Aleppo.

President Putin sent a fleet of eight Russian warships through the English Channel to assist the assault on the besieged Syrian city.

But yesterday, following pressure from its Nato allies, Spain withdrew permission for the ships to refuel because Moscow was unable to pledge the vessels would not be used to bomb Syria.

Lev Gudkov, head of the Russian polling group Levada-Center, said most of his countrymen 'believe that the Third World War has begun'.

Pictures have emerged showing how the Kremlin completed a nuclear drill for 40 million citizens

France, Denmark, Italy and other allies are expected to join the four battle groups led by the United States, Germany, Britain and Canada to go to Poland, Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia, with forces ranging from armoured infantry to drones

He added: 'Right now we are still in the cold phase of the war, which may or may not turn into a hot war.'

Footage emerged yesterday of Russian emergency workers wearing protective suits and gas masks as part of their doomsday exercise – the biggest in decades.

Mr Putin has demanded sufficient bomb shelters to protect the entire population of Moscow.

The arrival of extra Russian warships in the Baltic last night sparked concern among Nato members.

A Russian newspaper cited a military source saying the Serpukhov and the Zeleny Dol were the first of five vessels to be deployed.

They are to form a new division in Kaliningrad, a Russian enclave sandwiched between Poland and Lithuania. Another source said the vessels were armed with Kalibr long-range cruise missiles.

'The fleet's potential targeting range will be significantly expanded in the northern European military theatre,' the source told Interfax.

Rockets point towards the sky during the 2016 Army Games, an international event organised by the Russian Defense Ministry

A fortnight ago, Hillary Clinton launched an open attack on Russia in a presidential debate, saying Vladimir Putin wants Trump to win and accused the regime of 'war crimes' in Syria

Russia's defence ministry, which said earlier this month the two ships were en route to the Mediterranean, did not respond to a request for comment.

Nato and the Swedish military confirmed the two warships had entered the Baltic. 'Nato navies are monitoring this activity near our borders,' said Dylan White, the alliance's spokesman.

The cruise missiles on the Buyan-M class corvettes are known by the Nato code name Sizzler. The Russian military says they have a range of at least 900 miles.

Though variants of the missile are capable of carrying nuclear warheads, the ships are believed to be carrying conventional warheads.

'The addition of Kalibr missiles would increase the strike range not just of the Baltic Fleet, but of Russian forces in the Baltic region, fivefold,' said Ben Nimmo, a defence analyst.

He said the Baltic Fleet's coastal defences would also be beefed up with Bastion and Bal land-based missile systems.

SPAIN SHUTS OUT RUSSIA: PLANS TO REFUEL PUTIN'S WARSHIPS CANCELLED Spain last night cancelled plans to refuel Russian warships heading for Syria after Britain warned it would have civilian lives 'on its conscience'. The Russian flotilla – led by the aircraft carrier Admiral Kuznetsov – had been expected to take on fuel and supplies tomorrow at the port of Ceuta, a Spanish territory on the north coast of Africa. But officials in Madrid yesterday said Russia had withdrawn its request amid mounting pressure on the government to cancel the stop. Defence Secretary Sir Michael Fallon had warned Britain would be 'extremely concerned' if a Nato member assisted a carrier group that later carried out attacks on Syrian civilians. Speaking in Brussels, where Nato defence ministers are meeting, Sir Michael said: 'Our concern is that any Nato member should consider assisting a Russian carrier group that is heading for Syria and might end up bombing Syrian civilians. 'That clearly wouldn't be right and runs counter to the solidarity of Nato. Eight of Vladimir Putin's warships were expected to take on fuel and supplies from the Spanish port of Cueta this week 'If that carrier group heads down to the eastern Mediterranean, as Moscow has announced, and then gets involved in striking in Syria and bombing civilians then that will be on Madrid's conscience.' Last night Spain said it had withdrawn its permission for the refuelling after Russia was unable to pledge that the warships would not be used to launch bomb attacks in Syria. It is not known where the boats will now take on fuel. Greece, another Nato member, and Malta, which is part of the EU but not Nato, have previously allowed Russian navy ships to use their ports. Last week Royal Navy vessels monitored the flotilla as it moved through the English Channel. The fleet was shadowed by the Navy as it passed through the Dover Strait. Spain, a Nato member, regularly allows Russian warships to stop in Ceuta, which faces the British territory of Gibraltar on Spain's southern tip. But Nato said the prospect of Russia's only aircraft carrier heading to the region did not 'inspire confidence' that Moscow is seeking a political solution to the Syrian crisis.

Sweden's defence minister said his country was worried by the presence of the warships in the Baltic. He said the move was likely to keep tensions in the region high.

'This is worrying and is not something that helps to reduce tensions in our region,' said Peter Hultqvist.

Nato secretary-general Jens Stoltenberg said he was concerned by the Iskander ballistic missiles deployed in the Kaliningrad region earlier this month.

The UK force in Estonia will be joined by French and Danish companies. At least two RAF Typhoons will be sent from RAF Coningsby to the Black Sea region for four months as part of an air policing mission over Romania.

And a 28-strong team will go to Kosovo to provide reassurance in the Western Balkans and troops will be dispatched to Poland next year.

Russia has unveiled chilling pictures of its largest ever nuclear missile, capable of destroying an area the size of France. A contract for the weapons was signed in 2011, and they are expected to be ready in 2018

Each missile contains 16 nuclear warheads, according to pictures revealed online from the Makeyev Rocket Design Bureau. It is also able to evade radar.

The Russian flotilla – led by the aircraft carrier Admiral Kuznetsov – had been expected to take on fuel and supplies tomorrow in Ceuta, a Spanish territory in Africa.

But officials in Madrid yesterday said Russia had withdrawn its request amid mounting pressure.

Sir Michael had warned Britain would be 'extremely concerned' if a Nato member assisted a carrier group that later carried out attacks on Syrian civilians.

Earlier this week, Russia unveiled chilling pictures of its largest ever nuclear missile, capable of destroying an area the size of France.

The RS-28 Sarmat missile, dubbed Satan 2 by Nato, has a top speed of 4.3 miles (7km) per second and has been designed to outfox anti-missile shield systems.

The new Sarmat missile could deliver warheads of 40 megatons - 2,000 times as powerful as the atom bombs dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki in 1945.

The Russian President is reportedly planning to replace the country's older SS-18 Satan weapons with the new missiles amid a string of recent disagreements with the West.

The tests are the latest in a line of policies and incidents carried out by Putin to antagonise the West. Western leaders have been quick to slap him down and accuse him of war-mongering.

A fortnight ago, Hillary Clinton launched an open attack on Russia in a presidential debate, saying Vladimir Putin wants Trump to win and accused the regime of 'war crimes' in Syria.

British soldiers will be by sent to Estonia in the spring and will be joined by forces from Denmark and France, according to Defence Secretary Michael Fallon (pictured)

Clinton went on the offensive during the combative head-to-head showdown, apparently riled after she fell victim to leaks which she attributed to Russian hackers.

In some of her strongest words yet aimed at Russian President Putin, Clinton rebuked the country for its bombing of Aleppo, home to some 250,000 people.

'There is a determined effort by the Russian air force to destroy Aleppo in order to eliminate the last of the Syrian rebels who are really holding out against the Assad regime,' she told the crowd.

'Russia hasn't paid any attention to ISIS. They're interested in keeping Assad in power,' she went on.

'I do support the effort to investigate for crimes - war crimes - committed by the Syrians and the Russians, and try to hold them accountable,' she told the crowd.

She also alleged that Russia wanted to see Trump in power rather than her.

'But I want to emphasise that what is at stake here is the ambitions and the aggressiveness of Russia,' she said.

'Russia has decided that it's all in in Syria, and they've also decided who they want to see become president of the United States too - and it's not me.'

The FBI said in July that it was looking into the hacking of the Democratic National Committee computer system, after WikiLeaks published nearly 20,000 internal emails on the eve of the party's convention.

The White House and the Kremlin have been at loggerheads for weeks over the Syrian civil war with the US backing rebel groups attempting to overthrow the government and Putin supporting President Assad

At the debate the subject of Russian hacks also came up in a separate voter question about a WikiLeaks document published earlier this month, which showed that Clinton allegedly said in a Wall Street speech that 'you need both a public and a private position on certain issues.'

Clinton went on to blame the leak on Russian meddling, saying: 'We have never, in the history of our country, been in a situation where an adversary, a foreign power, is working so hard to influence the outcome of the election.'

The recent criticism has clearly rubbed Putin up the wrong way, who reacted today by saying: 'If somebody out there wants confrontation this is not our choice but this means that there will be problems,' according to The Mirror.

The White House and the Kremlin have been at loggerheads for weeks over the Syrian civil war with the US backing rebel groups attempting to overthrow the government and Putin supporting President Assad.

Both have accused each other of air strikes on aid convoys and civilians.

Though the Russian military said Tuesday the weeklong halt of Russian and Syrian air strikes on the besieged city of Aleppo will continue and humanitarian corridors will remain open even as the Syrian army has unleashed a new offensive on the rebel-held neighborhoods.

As well as a bulging stock of nuclear missiles in Russia itself, Putin is looking to flex his muscles around the world.

Russia is considering reopening military bases in Vietnam and Cuba as Putin looks to assert his army's presence around the world.