http://www.thenational.scot/world/profile-wallonia-the-belgian-region-that-voted-against-ceta.23981
90
9
Profile: Wallonia – The Belgian region that voted against CETA

If you would prefer unlimited access, please support our journalism with a website subscription. Subscribe today for just £3.99 a month.

Registered users can read up to 10 articles for free each month.

Will fin breid, barley-bree an paintit room. Whan MacLean meets wi's friens in Springburn. Aa thae roses an geeans will turn tae blume. An a black laud frae yont Nyanga. Dings the fell gallows o the burghers doun.

Black an white ane-til-ither mairriet. Mak the vile barracks o thair maisters bare. Sae come aa ye at hame wi freedom. Never heed whit the houdies croak for Doom. In yer hous aa the bairns o Aidam.

Tak the road an seek ither loanins. Wi thair ill-ploys tae sport an play. Nae mair will our bonnie callants. Merch tae war whan our braggarts crousely craw. Nor wee weans frae pitheid an clachan. Murn the ships sailin doun the Broomielaw. Broken faimilies in launs we've hairriet. Will curse 'Scotlan the Brave' nae mair, nae mair.

Roch the win i the clear day's dawin. Blaws the clouds heilster-gowdie owre the bay. But thair's mair nor a roch win blawin. Thro the Great Glen o the warl the day. It's a thocht that wad gar our rottans. Aa thae rogues that gang gallus fresh an gay.

The Walloons of Wallonia have, for the last century or so, been somewhat overshadowed by their Flemish neighbours.

The Walloons of Wallonia have, for the last century or so, been somewhat overshadowed by their Flemish neighbours.



When you think of Belgium, you’ll likely think of Brussels, or maybe Flanders, or Antwerp. In fact, there’s likely a good chance you’ve not even heard of Wallonia.

According to Google’s trends, searches for Wallonia by people living in Scotland have skyrocketed in the last week.

That is likely down to the 3.5 million Walloons putting the kibosh on a trillion dollar trade deal being negotiated by Canada and the EU just days before it was due to be formally signed.

And in doing so, they’ve found themselves at the heart of Britain’s Brexit dilemma.

What and where is Wallonia?

Belgium is separated into three regions: Flanders in the North, Wallonia in the South, and then the Brussels Capital Region.

French speaking Wallonia is the biggest region in Belgium, taking up 55 per cent of the country, though less than a third of the country’s population live here.

Under the Belgian federal system, there are five regional and language-based parliaments, all of which have a say in the country’s foreign affairs.

Which is why, despite the seven years of negotiation between Canada and the EU, despite the agreement from every other European member state, the Walloons can say no to CETA.

What is CETA?

The Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement, if ratified, will remove practically all tariffs on goods exchanged between Canada and the EU. A briefing from the EU says the deal will create new markets in “financial services, telecommunications, energy and maritime transport, while reserving the parties’ right to regulate their internal public affairs”.

It will, they claim see Canada substantially “open up its public procurement, at both federal and sub-federal level”.

Global Justice Now, however, say the deal would pose “a major threat to our democracy, public services and the environment,” harm regulation, and lead to more privatisation in the public sector.

Why are the Walloons opposed?

For this, it’s important to know a little history of the region. In its heyday during the industrial revolution, Wallonia was the second most industrialised area in the world after Britain.

The collapse in those industries has hit Wallonia hard, while Flanders developed a services economy and saw its economy prosper.

Unlike the Flemish though, the Walloons do not consider themselves a nation or desire an independent state.

According to the BBC a recent poll found that only a tiny minority of Walloons wanted Belgium to break up, and if they were to secede, then they’d rather join up with France.

They are a deeply left-wing part of the world.

Walloon Premier Paul Magnette, a socialist, says the deal will weaken legal, health and environmental standards, give multinationals too much power to sue governments, and threaten the region’s dairy farmers.

There’s internal politics at play here as well, Magnette’s socialist party are losing ground to the region’s Marxist party, pushing him left.

Unemployment in the region is about 16 per cent, compounded recently by US construction company Caterpillar closing their plant and sacking 2,000 workers.

What does this mean for Brexit?

As with everything, it’s too early to say. Wallonia has been used by both sides as proof of the strength of their argument.

Yesterday, financial paper, City AM’s front page was Walooney Toons.

If a trade deal agreed by all the leaders of all the countries in the EU can’t get signed off, what hope does a Brexit deal have?

Alternatively, why would you want to be part of a dysfunctional trading bloc where one region of one country can hold up a major deal.

Theresa May addressed the issue in the House of Commons on Monday, telling MPs: “I share everyone’s disappointment over the stalled talks between the EU and Canada.

“But to those who suggest that these difficulties have a bearing on our own future negotiations, I would remind them that we are not seeking to replicate any existing model that any other country has in relation to its trade with the European Union.

“We will be developing our own British model – a deal that is ambitious and bold for Britain.”

What now?

Chrystia Freeland, Canada’s Trade Minister, flew home from Brussels on Saturday saying it was up to the EU to sort this out. The Canadians are ready to sign.

On Monday night European Council President Donald Tusk tweeted: “Together with PM @JustinTrudeau, we think Thursday’s summit still possible. We encourage all parties to find a solution. There’s yet time.”

If, by the time you read this, Trudeau is on a plane to the EU, then it’s a good bet the fears of the Walloons have been sated and the signing, supposed to happen on Thursday morning, is going ahead.



The Vatican: Catholic Church imposes new cremation rules

