http://www.dnaindia.com/india/report-ed-issues-fresh-summons-to-meat-exporter-moin-qureshi-2267571
90
9
Despite a look out notice in a PMLA case, Qureshi mislead the authorities with court order obtained in an Income Tax case. He has not received any relief from court in the PMLA case.

The Delhi High Court on Wednesday stayed the Look Out Circular (LOC) issued against controversial meat exporter Moin Qureshi till November 16, in money laundering case.

The court has declined to grant interim protection to Qureshi from arrest, and has asked him to appear before Enforcement Directorate (ED) on November 22.

The ED had issued fresh summons to Qureshi for questioning, after he recently managed to go out of the country despite a Look Out Circular (LOC) issued against him by the agency.

The agency has also issued fresh summons to his wife and daughter.

Officials said the Enforcement Directorate has asked Qureshi to report before its Investigating Officer (IO) next week in connection with a criminal case registered against him under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).

The agency wants to expedite action against him, even as it is understood that the businessman has not returned till now. The officials said while the ED has questioned him in the past, some more recording of his statement is to be done in the said case.

Qureshi had managed to leave for Dubai recently after showing a court order obtained in an Income Tax case, and not in the case for which the ED has issued the LOC.

The Delhi-based meat exporter was briefly detained at the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport, based on the ED's LOC on October 15, and the Immigration department had informed the agency about it. He then presented a court order in which there was no restriction on his flying abroad. The immigration officer checked for the veracity of the order and allowed him to fly. When the ED team reached the airport to take the meat exporter into custody, they were informed he had been allowed to fly on the basis of the court order.

Later, the immigration officer realised that the order was in connection with an Income Tax case and not in the ED matter, prompting the authorities to order an inquiry. The ED had registered a case against Qureshi under PMLA last year. He is under the scanner of probe agencies for alleged tax evasion and hawala-like dealings.