http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3806856/Two-former-Wells-Fargo-file-2-6-billion-lawsuit-against-scandal-hit-bank-claiming-staff-pressure-create-fraudulent-accounts-fired.html
90
9
Two former employees of Wells Fargo Bank have filed a $2.6 billion lawsuit against the bank as it is investigated for alleged banking fraud.

Wells Fargo agreed to pay $185million to federal and local authorities earlier this month to settle allegations that bankers striving to meet the targets opened fraudulent credit card and bank accounts.

Last week, the bank's Chief Executive John Stumpf - who faced difficult questions over the allegations, resigned from the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco's advisory council on Thursday.

Now two former employees Alexander Polonsky and Brian Zaghi have filed a lawsuit in California seeking $2.6 billion or more for workers who tried to meet aggressive sales quotas without engaging in fraud and were later demoted, forced to resign or fired.

Two former employees of Wells Fargo Bank have filed a lawsuit against the bank as it is investigated for alleged banking fraud

The lawsuit for both current and past Wells Fargo employees in California in the last 10 years, focuses on those who followed the rules and were penalized for not meeting sales quotas.

'Wells Fargo fired or demoted employees who failed to meet unrealistic quotas while at the same time providing promotions to employees who met these quotas by opening fraudulent accounts,' the lawsuit filed on Thursday in California Superior Court in Los Angeles County said.

The revelations are a severe hit to Wells Fargo's reputation. During the financial crisis, the bank trumpeted being a conservative bank in contrast with its rivals.

A Wells Fargo spokesman on Saturday declined to comment on the lawsuit.

Polonsky and Zaghi allege Wells Fargo managers pressed workers to meet quotas of 10 accounts per day, required progress reports several times daily and reprimanded workers who fell short.

Polonsky and Zaghi filed applications matching customer requests and were counseled, demoted and later terminated, the lawsuit said.

While executives at the top benefited from the activity, the blame landed on thousands of $12-per-hour employees who tried to meet the quotas and were often required to work off the clock to do so, the lawsuit said.

Employees with a conscience who tried to meet quotas without engaging in fraud were the biggest victims, losing wages, benefits and suffering anxiety, humiliation and embarrassment, the lawsuit said.

Wells Fargo CEO John Stumpf is pictured testifying in front of the Senate Banking Committee. He has since stepped down

Wells Fargo was aware many accounts were illegally opened, unwanted, carried a zero balance, or were simply a result of unethical business practices, the lawsuit said.

'Wells Fargo knew that their unreasonable quotas were driving these unethical behaviors that were used to fraudulently increase their stock price and benefit the CEO at the expense of the low level employees,' the lawsuit said.

The lawsuit accuses Wells Fargo of wrongful termination, unlawful business practices and failure to pay wages, overtime, and penalties under California law.

Wells Fargo was worth just shy of $300billion, making it the world's most valuable bank in the world according to figures released last year.

The bank was known for it's ability to 'cross-sell' or get customers to sign up for more and more accounts, which attracted the financial backing of Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway.

Buffett's firm is the largest owner of Wells Fargo with a 9.5% stake in the bank.

The bank attracted the financial backing of Warren Buffett's firm Berkshire Hathaway

According to a criminal complaint filed in California, the bank largely targeted checking account customers, pushing them into taking savings, online or credit accounts which would charge fees.

Bank employees were told that the average customer tapped six financial tools but that they should push households to use eight products, according to the complaint.

A 2013 LA Times investigation found a culture that left some employees desperate to reach quotas, whether it was forging signatures or begging family members to open additional accounts.

In some cases, employees created fake email addresses and pin numbers to create more accounts, and customers were charged for overdraft fees after their money was moved without their consent.

A former bank manager Rita Murillo told the paper: 'We were constantly told we would end up working for McDonald's.

'If we did not make the sales quotas…we had to stay for what felt like after-school detention, or report to a call session on Saturdays.'

In total, a consulting firm hired by Wells Fargo to investigate the fraud found more than two million deposit accounts that may not have been authorized.

Wells Fargo ended up firing 5,300 employees over the last few years, but top executives have been largely saved from the chopping block.

CEO John Stumpf was paid $19.3million in 2015 and has been awarded several 'Banker of the Year' awards from industry organizations, CNN reported.

CEO John Stumpf, (left) who has received several industry awards, was paid $19.3million in 2015. David Carroll (right) was paid $9.05million because his department oversaw growth

David Carroll, the senior executive vice president of Wealth and Investment Management, was paid $9.05million, according to the news website.

His department 'achieved a number of important strategic objectives, including ... growth in loan balances and deposits,' a Securities and Exchange Commission filing cited by CNN stated.

A Wells Fargo spokesperson told CNN the terminations affected 'both managers and team members'.

The bank has since lowered sales goals, restructured employee incentives and instilled a system of oversight, the LA Times reported.

Stumpf, under fire over problematic sales tactics, has now resigned from the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco's advisory council on Thursday.

'John made a personal decision to resign as the Twelfth District's representative to the Federal Advisory Council. His top priority is leading Wells Fargo,' Wells Fargo spokesman Mark Folk said in an email.