http://www.whio.com/news/crime--law/former-mayor-charged-with-rape-claims-year-old-victim-was-willing-participant/HDD81IjCdCFF9SGejducZK/
25
2
Updated: Tuesday, September 13, 2016 @ 11:24 AM

Published: Tuesday, September 13, 2016 @ 11:04 AM

By: Crystal Bonvillian - Cox Media Group National Content Desk

The former mayor of a small Ohio city has reportedly admitted to raping a young girl over a three-year period, but blamed the girl for initiating the sex acts and called her a “willing participant.”

Richard Keenan, who was mayor of Hubbard, Ohio, in 2010 and 2011, is charged with eight counts of rape and 12 counts of gross sexual imposition, according to the Youngstown Vindicator. Keenan was indicted on the charges last month and is free on bond.

The Vindicator reported that the 65-year-old Keenan admitted the crimes to his wife, a pastor, a social worker and other family members. The allegations reportedly came to light after the little girl told Keenan’s wife about the abuse.

When his wife confronted him, Keenan allegedly admitted the abuse, the newspaper reported. He later checked himself into a psychiatric facility because he felt suicidal.

>> Read more trending stories

It was during discussions with a social worker there that Keenan is accused of blaming the girl, who he began abusing at the age of four, for instigating the incidents. The Vindicator reported that prosecutors are asking a judge to determine if Keenan’s admissions to his wife, as well as “in-depth” conversations with the pastor, are allowable as evidence in his trial next year or if they are privileged.

In Ohio, a person can testify against their spouse if they choose to do so, the newspaper reported. A member of the clergy cannot be forced to testify against someone about a confession or confidential discussion.

Keenan, who also served as a Hubbard city councilman in the 90s, described himself as a Christian when he was sworn in as mayor in January 2010.

“Dedicating my life to Jesus has changed my life,” Keenan told the Vindicator at that time.

Keenan was booked into the Trumbull County jail last month and released the same day on $75,000 bond, jail records show.