http://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/nova-scotia/school-bus-confusion-new-school-problems-1.3760473
25
2
New Waterford, N.S., parents say the local school bus system is still not working properly, despite a promise from the Cape Breton-Victoria District School Board to fix the problems.

"I'm not willing to put my children back on the bus until all of it stops," said Amy MacDonald.

She has two children at New Waterford Elementary, one in Grade 2 and the other in Grade 3.

"I waited [an] hour and a half for them the first day," said MacDonald.

MacDonald said she heard of children on the wrong bus or being dropped off at the wrong stop. "There's too many stories floating around [so] I'm not willing to risk anything."

Growing pains

Three schools are now under one roof with some school bus issues resulting. (CBC/Norma Jean MacPhee)

This year, New Waterford Elementary has students from two other schools which have been closed.

Taking a bus at all is new to many of the students so Kelly Campbell, whose son is in Grade 3, said some adjustment time is needed.

"Growing pains are kind of reasonable to expect with the situation."

But she said the level of confusion that's occurring isn't reasonable.

"I'm more concerned about how many kids have been put on the wrong bus and dropped off at the wrong stops and people [who] they genuinely didn't know where they were for a period of time,"said Campbell.

People are disappointed

Giving the children a coloured tag to show them which bus they're supposed to be on seemed to help, she said, but overall people are disappointed.

Last year, when parents learned two of the elementary schools would be closing, Campbell said they accepted the reality of the situation, given the dwindling population and declining enrolments.

But she said they were also were told the street where the school is located would be extended to improve traffic flow. That didn't happen.

And they were told there would be enough room for the students, but Campbell says many of the classrooms are over capacity.

'Our children were let down'

"I think a lot of people feel like this was pushed through, looking more at the bottom line and finances and that not enough preparation was done,"said Campbell.

"And this situation with the buses is just one symptom of that poor planning and lack of preparation for the transition."

MacDonald agrees. She said she'll be keeping her children off the bus for at least a month.

"I feel the community and our children were let down and we weren't given the effort to make sure this went smoothly," said MacDonald. "And the bus system could not be any worse."