https://www.theguardian.com/world/2016/sep/13/un-turkey-seek-security-guarantees-aid-convoy-enters-aleppo-syria
20
2
The UN and Turkey are seeking security guarantees before sending aid convoys into Aleppo after a shaky start to a ceasefire across Syria that observers say is starting to take hold.

The deal, brokered by Russia and the US, is expected to clear the way for humanitarian deliveries to many of the 18 besieged areas across the country by grounding the Russian and Syrian air forces and calling on opposition groups to lower their weapons.

Despite widespread scepticism in the runup to the truce, which began at sunset on Monday, most rebel groups appear to have grudgingly backed the agreement, which diplomats have suggested could be a first step towards a more lasting peace after five years of war that has left much of the country in ruin.

Syrian ceasefire deal - the Guardian briefing Read more

On Tuesday the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, a group that monitors the conflict, updated its tally of fatalities. The SOHR said its records show that since the crisis began in March 2011 more than 301,000 people have been killed, 86,000 of them civilians.

It said the actual figure might be 70,000 higher, as insurgent groups do not announce their deaths and there are other deaths that are not documented. The UN previously suggested the toll may be as high as 400,000, but officials stopped counting in August last year.

Turkish reports said 40 trucks were due to cross the border into Syria late on Tuesday, carrying food, clothing and children’s toys. Much of the aid was destined for rebel-held eastern Aleppo, which has been largely besieged by the Bashar al-Assad regime for the past two months. The northern entrance to the city was bombed from the air shortly after the ceasefire began and remains one of the most bitterly contested parts of the country.



Facebook Twitter Pinterest Picture released by Syrian state media on Monday shows Bashar al-Assad speaking with press in Daraya. Photograph: HO/AFP/Getty Images

Control of Aleppo remains central to the conflict and to the fate of the ceasefire. On the opposition side, rebel groups have blended with Islamist groups and jihadis, such as Jabhat Fatah al-Sham – the rebranded Jabhat al-Nusra – to defend the city. On the other, Iranian-backed Shia militias and Hezbollah, supported by the Syrian army, are battling to take it from them.



Jabhat Fatah al-Sham released a statement on Tuesday criticising the deal, which excluded the group and stated that it remains a valid target for Russian and US jets. A critical theme of the deal was to isolate jihadis from more mainstream groups. The latter have been reluctant to disentangle themselves from jihadi groups, who have acted as guarantors in the face of relentless attacks from Russian and Syrian aircraft over the past year.



Rebel leaders in Aleppo told the Observer at the weekend that they did not support the jihadis’ ideology or vision for Syria, but had no other option than to accept them as part of the opposition scene, particularly around Aleppo and Idlib province.

If the truce holds, Russia and the US say they plan to open a joint operations room within seven days, which would precisely map out areas that remain valid targets.