http://www.news24.com/SouthAfrica/News/state-capture-report-wont-divide-the-anc-mantashe-20161022
90
9
Johannesburg – There is no reason for former public protector Thuli Madonsela’s state capture report to divide the ruling party says ANC Secretary General Gwede Mantashe.

He made the comments during an interview with News24 on Friday; just hours before it was revealed that new public protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane would not oppose President Jacob Zuma’s court bid to delay the release of a report into allegations of being captured by the influential Gupta family. It’s been alleged the family has interfered in key decisions by Zuma including the appointment of ministers.

Mantashe said the ANC attempted to investigate the matter, but it was fruitless.

“We opened the investigation; they [members of the party who made the claims] didn’t come forward and trusted someone else. Its fine,” said Mantashe.

ANC members including deputy finance Minister Mcebisi Jonas and former member of parliament Vytjie Mentor claimed they were both approached by the family offering them ministerial positions,

Mantashe said the report compiled by the former public protector, who has been criticised in some quarters for rushing the investigation wouldn’t be seen as an issue in the party as long as it was accurate.

“If it’s factual, it’s not sensational, not trying to exaggerate it will help us see through the issues.”

The report is currently under lock and key, what happens with it will be determined by court proceedings as the president is seeking to delay the release of the report with an application for an an interdict due to be heard on the 1st of November.

The ANC SG who has been out of the country said he raised concerns at Madonsela’s farewell dinner last month that some were seeing the investigation as a possible final nail in the coffin in attempts of getting rid of the president.

“I hinted on the report, many in certain circles refer to it as a final push, if it’s used as that then the intention is bad but if it is intending to give us factual information then it would be a point of learning,” said Mantashe.