http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/british-cyber-predator-arrested-barcelona-9020885
100
10
Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

A former teacher who vanished while facing trial accused of a string of sex offences has been arrested in Barcelona

Fugitive Cory Baptiste from Purfleet, Essex, was detained in a popular city centre square in a joint operation involving Spanish National Police and officers from Britain’s National Crime Agency.

A manhunt was launched for the 24-year-old after he failed to appear at Basildon Crown Court in August to answer five counts of child sex offences .

He had been working at a school in Essex until he was arrested in January and ordered to attend court to enter pleas on two counts of causing or inciting sexual activity with a child and three counts of causing a child to watch a sexual act.

Police handout Cory Baptiste was a teacher at a school in Essex

Spanish police described him as an alleged “cyber predator” as they confirmed the arrest in a press release yesterday and released footage of the moment he was held and handcuffed.

They said he was accused of creating a string of fake internet profiles posing as a teenager so he could obtain pornographic images of other youngsters.

A spokesman said: “Spanish police officers have arrested in Barcelona a British citizen who was on the run from the British authorities having been charged with a string of sex offences.

“He fled to Spain at the start of this year after being summonsed to court , leading to the British authorities issuing a European Arrest Warrant.

“Since then he was on his country’s ‘Most Wanted’ list.”

Spanish police added in a statement: “The fugitive, whilst working in a school in Essex in 2015, allegedly created fake profiles in a well-known social network with false names and dates of birth.

PA Baptiste failed to appear at Basildon Crown Court

“His aim was to appear younger, gain their [the victims'] confidence and invite them to take part in different sexual acts in which they stripped off and showed their private parts on camera as well as carrying out sexual acts.

“The victims, all aged between 12 and 15, thought they were communicating with a boy aged around the same as them.”

Police said the detainee had been changing addresses in Barcelona on a regular basis in an effort to avoid detection.

He was held in the Plaza de Catalunya, a city centre square in the Catalan capital.

He is understood to have already appeared at an extradition hearing in Madrid although it is not known if he agreed to extradition or refused to be sent back in Britain to face justice.

Essex police said after Baptiste went missing that he had been working as an estate agent and they had received information he may be trying to travel to France.

Previous reports have said he allegedly used Facebook and Shapchat in the fake names of Daniel, Danielle and Dan to commit offences.