http://www.asianews.network/content/two-killed-cops-bangladesh-raid-two-gazipur-%E2%80%98militant-dens%E2%80%99-28607
100
10
Two alleged militants were killed in a 'shootout' with the Rapid Action Battalion (Rab) in Harinal area of Gazipur City today, while the law enforcers are conducting a raid at another house in the city’s Patartek area.

Mizanur Rahman Bhuyan, senior assistant superintendent of police of Rab-1, confirmed the deaths of two militants killed in the 'shootout' to The Daily Star.

The killed 'militants' are Touhidul Islam and Rashed Mia, both hailing from Narsingdi, The Daily Star Gazipur correspondent reported quoting Rab-1 media director Mukti Mahmud Khan who quoted the house owner as saying.

Law enforcers found the two bodies in one of the units of the house, Mahiul Alam, Rab 1 assistant superintendent of police, told The Daily Star Gazipur correspondent.

The Law enforcers recovered an AK-47 rifle, dozens of bullets, bomb-making explosive substances, four laptops, three machetes and a laminating machine from the house, the Rab official said.

The recovered items have raised suspicions that more people might have been living in the unit, Mufti Mahmud Khan, legal and media wing director of Rab, said.

Acting on a tip-off that a divisional commander of the banned militant outfit Jama'atul Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB) was staying at the house, law enforcers raided it, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Counter terrorism unit Sanwar Hossain told The Daily Star.

A large number of Rab and police personnel cordoned off the building in the Lebubagan area since 7 am local time, The Daily Star Gazipur correspondent reported, quoting Khandakar Rezaul Hasssan Reza, officer-in-charge of Joydevpur Police Station.

Around 150 law enforcers, including the local policemen, were present at the scene, the correspondent said.

The law enforcers urged the onlookers to move to safe distance.

The single-floor house constructed recently was rented out a month ago, the correspondent said quoting the locals.

Ataur Rahman, owner of the building, does not live in the house, said Fazila Khatun, a neighbour.

Patartek raid

Meanwhile, law enforcers were exchanging gunfire with the alleged militants in another raid at a two-storey-house in Patartek area of the Gazipur City, Harunur Rashid, police superintendent of the district, said.

The raid, which started in the morning, was ongoing when this report was filed at 2:55 pm local time.

Alleged militants were firing at the law enforcers through the windows of a ground floor unit of the building, reported the correspondent.

Militants rented the building owned by a Saudi expatriate Suleiman Sarkar about three months back, the locals were quoted as saying.

The Gazipur police suspect that a team, under the commander of the Neo JMB Dhaka unit Akash, was staying there.

They suspect that there are four militants staying in the flat, according to the correspondent.