https://www.washingtonpost.com/national/world-digest-sept-13-2016/2016/09/13/24ff1a3e-79bd-11e6-bd86-b7bbd53d2b5d_story.html
100
10
PHILIPPINES

President rejects joint patrols in disputed seas

Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte said Tuesday that he will not allow government forces to conduct joint patrols of disputed waters near the South China Sea with foreign powers, apparently scrapping a deal his predecessor reached with the U.S. military this year.

Duterte also said he is considering acquiring defense equipment from Russia and China. The Philippines has traditionally leaned on the United States and other Western allies for its security needs.

The Philippine president has had an uneasy relationship with the United States but has tried to mend ties with China strained by South China Sea disputes.

Duterte said he wanted only Philippine territorial waters to be patrolled by his nation’s forces, not offshore areas that are contested. He added that he opposes Philippine forces accompanying foreign powers in joint patrols that could entangle his country in hostilities.

“We do not go into a patrol or join any other army from now because I do not want trouble,” Duterte said.

His rejection of joint patrols apparently goes against an arrangement announced in April by the U.S. and Philippine defense chiefs.

While visiting Manila, U.S. Defense Secretary Ashton B. Carter disclosed that U.S. ships had carried out patrols with the Philippines in the South China Sea, a somewhat rare move.

On Monday, Duterte said he wanted U.S. military forces out of the southern Philippines.

— Associated Press

BRAZIL

Architect of Rousseff’s fall stripped of seat

The once-powerful speaker of the lower house of Brazil’s legislature is the latest top politician to fall amid mammoth corruption scandals that have caused widespread anger among Brazilians.

In a 450-to-10 vote, the Chamber of Deputies stripped Eduardo Cunha of his congressional seat. He has been accused of corruption and obstructing justice.

Cunha proclaimed his innocence and said he was being punished for leading the charge to oust Dilma Rousseff from the presidency.

Cunha was the main force behind the impeachment process that led to the Senate trying Rousseff and removing her from office last month for allegedly shifting funds between budgets illegally.

With the loss of his seat, Cunha loses the partial immunity from prosecution that comes with the office.

Prosecutors accuse him of corruption and money laundering over his role in negotiating contracts with the state-run oil giant Petrobras.

— Associated Press

INDIA

Nearly 400 arrested amid violence in IT hub

Police arrested nearly 400 people amid looting and vandalism in India’s information technology hub of Bangalore after a curfew was imposed to quell violence set off by a court ruling over a disputed water source, a police officer said Tuesday.

Police gunfire killed one protester and injured another on Monday night after mobs set fire to dozens of buses, trucks and cars and attacked shops and businesses in Bangalore and other parts of Karnataka state.

A top police officer said there was no major incident after the curfew was imposed in parts of the city on Monday night. Protesters set some trucks on fire in rural areas of the state on Tuesday.

The Cauvery River, which originates in Karnataka and flows into Tamil Nadu state, has been the source of a bitter water dispute for decades. India’s top court last week ordered Karnataka to release water downriver to Tamil Nadu.

Karnataka’s top elected official said Tuesday that he was bound by the court ruling but that there was not enough water to share.

Bangalore is home to top Indian IT and multinational companies.

— Associated Press

U.N. approves Colombia peace mission: The U.N. Security Council approved the deployment of a U.N. political mission to monitor a cease-fire between the government of Colombia and the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC. Diplomats say the mission should be in place when the two parties sign a formal peace agreement on Sept. 26 and when the deal is subject to a referendum on Oct. 2. President Juan Manuel Santos and FARC rebels signed a cease-fire and rebel disarmament deal in June that moved the country to the brink of ending its 52-year war.

Death toll in Tanzania quake rises to 17: The number of people killed in a rare earthquake in the Lake Victoria region over the weekend has risen to 17, a Tanzanian official said. The 5.7-magnitude quake also injured 252 people and displaced 840 families, George Simbachawene told the National Assembly. The shallow quake also was felt in western Kenya, in parts of Uganda and in Rwanda’s capital.

— From news services