http://www.asianews.network/content/eastern-taiwan-battered-heavy-rains-29881
100
10
No casualties due to the heavy rains were reported as of press time.

Torrential rains triggered by Typhoon Aere began battering the two eastern counties, but the local governments did not announce the closure of schools or offices until Friday afternoon.

According to the Central Weather Bureau (CWB), the Beiyuan area of Taitung’s Donghe township recorded accumulated precipitation of more than 400 millimetres between Thursday night and Friday evening.

Mountainous areas in Taitung’s Changbin Township recorded rainfall close to the Beiyuan level during the period, the CWB said.

For other areas in Taitung, including Peinan, Luye, Yenping, Haitun, Chenggong and Taitung City, the accumulated rainfall exceeded 200 millimetres during the period, the CWB added.

According to the Central News Agency (CNA), rains in Hualien had become even heavier by daybreak, flooding several areas in downtown Hualien City and disrupting rush-hour traffic.

The train service in Hualien was disrupted in the morning amid reports that the tracks at the eastern county’s railway station were submerged in water as high as the platforms.

Landslides were also reported in the mountainous areas in Hualien, and transport authorities closed sections of some of the mountain roads.

The Water and Soil Conservation Bureau of the central government issued a landslide red alert for 37 villages in Hualien and Taitung, saying the local authorities should encourage or force the residents to evacuate from those areas.

After normal train services resumed, the Hualien Railway Station witnessed a significant rise in the number of passengers in the afternoon, as several people decided to leave early for the National Day holiday, due to the half-day closure of schools and offices, according to the CNA.

The CNA cited a student from the Tzu Chi University in Hualien as saying that he had already booked a ticket for a later train but wanted to return to his home in Taipei earlier after school was cancelled.

Taitung County Commissioner Huang Chien-ting said several of the drainage systems in Taitung were unable to handle such heavy rains.

Huang said his government will study the issue with the local water resources agencies to improve the systems.