http://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi/rwas-in-delhi-resort-to-fogging-buy-machines-to-keep-off-vectors/story-yUIwLcmfL8182UrJLNyyeJ.html
100
10
Residents welfare associations (RWAs) have bought their own fogging machines as they feel they can’t depend entirely on civic agencies during an outbreak of mosquito-borne diseases.

“We decided to conduct fogging at our own expenses since the civic workers did not cover the entire locality and their focus was mainly on the houses on the main road,” said Fighter Enclave RWA president, Prem Deep. He bought a machine two weeks ago for Rs 46,000.

“We have a prescription for the right combination of chemicals from the shop on GB Road from where we bought the machine,” he said.

Vasant Kunj B block’s RWA member Swarup Sharma, who bought the machine for Rs 42,000, said it was sufficient for the entire locality.

For the first time, Govindpuri trader Vikas Sahay sold 12 fogging machines to RWAs, out of which Dwarka RWAs bought four. Last year, too, we sold machines to RWAs, but not more than two or three, he added.

Read: New chikungunya cases in Delhi drop for first time this year, dengue on the rise

A fogging machine with three-litre tank capacity and a fogging range of five metres can cost Rs 35,000 to Rs 50,000. Fuel and chemicals for one-time fogging costs Rs 1,500 - R 1,800.

The shops sell the chemicals as well. “We give cyphenothrin to the residents as it is prescribed by World Health Organisation,” said Sahay. The correct mix is one litre diesel with 7 ml cyphenothrin, he said. The corporations also use the same chemical.

Another GB Road trader said the number of enquiries has also been increasing. “I have got inquiries from over 30 RWAs across Delhi. Six of them bought the machine.”

Earlier, he sold to government agencies, hospitals or farm house owners. This time even apartment residents have bought them, he added.

The weekly report of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), nodal agency for vector-borne diseases, reported 1,419 chikungunya cases and 578 dengue cases this week.

“Dwarka is among the worst affected region. We do not want to depend upon corporations for the safety of our children so we took the decision to purchase the machine,” said Sector 21 RWA secretary, Ranjan Dube.

A senior SDMC official said even if residents use fogging machines, they should get the corporation workers to check the chemicals. “Our workers are ready to assist them in ensuring that correct proportion of diesel is mixed with the chemical else it could be hazardous to health.”