https://www.yahoo.com/news/public-interest-registry-opens-call-nominations-global-leaders-130000757.html
100
10
RESTON, Va., Oct. 11, 2016 /PRNewswire-USNewswire/ -- Today, Public Interest Registry – the not-for-profit operator of the .org, .ngo and .ong domains – announced its search for NGO Community Advisory Council nominations. Focusing on issues unique to the non-governmental organizations (NGOs), the NGO Community Advisory Council members will help Public Interest Registry better serve the worldwide users of .ngo and .ong – top-level domains available exclusively to NGOs.

The Public Interest Registry NGO Community Advisory Council provides feedback and advice on issues relating to the NGO community ranging from policy considerations to the introduction of new services. Seeking qualified leaders from Asia, Oceania, and Latin America and the Caribbean, Public Interest Registry collaborates with current Council members from diverse backgrounds, representing major regions from around the globe. Individuals may apply or nominate others now through December 9, 2016. New members will be appointed and will begin their three-year term in January 2017.

"The NGO Community Advisory Council plays a vital role in helping Public Interest Registry fulfill its mission," said Brian Cute, CEO of Public Interest Registry. "With .ngo domain users representing NGOs of varying size, scope and geography, it is important to us that all have advocates in the Internet community who fully understand their needs as diverse service-based organizations. The Council continually lends its unique global expertise to help us meet those needs and strengthen our efforts in supporting NGOs worldwide."

Comprised of seven members from a broad and geographically diverse spectrum of the non-commercial community, one Council member represents each of the following: Asia, Oceania, Africa, Europe, North America, Latin America and The Caribbean and Middle East/North Africa. Members are also drawn from diverse sectors of the non-commercial community, including educational, artistic, cultural, human rights, political, religious and scientific sectors.

Eligible candidates should have notable leadership experience in non-commercial community, an acute understanding of the issues and policies that affect the NGO society and an affinity with the values of Public Interest Registry. Candidates should submit their expression of interest detailing their experience, expertise and qualifications online here.

About Public Interest Registry

Public Interest Registry is a nonprofit organization that operates the .org top-level domain — the world's third largest "generic" top-level domain with more than 10.5 million domain names registered worldwide – and the newly launched .ngo and .ong domains and OnGood community website. As an advocate for collaboration, safety and security on the Internet, Public Interest Registry's mission is to empower the global noncommercial community to use the Internet more effectively, and to take a leadership position among Internet stakeholders on policy and other issues relating to the domain naming system. Public Interest Registry was founded by the Internet Society (internetsociety.org) in 2002 and is based in Reston, Virginia, USA.

Contact:

Jessica Dunten

646-428-0610

pir@allisonpr.com

To view the original version on PR Newswire, visit:http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/public-interest-registry-opens-call-for-nominations-for-global-leaders-to-join-ngo-community-advisory-council-300341849.html

SOURCE Public Interest Registry