http://freerepublic.com/focus/f-religion/3469848/posts
100
10
Skip to comments.

September 15th - Our Lady of Sorrows [Catholic Caucus]

Torch of the Faith ^ | September 15, 2016 | admin

Posted on by ebb tide

Lamentations 1:12: O all ye that pass by the way, attend, and see if there be any sorrow like to my sorrow.

Devotion to the sorrows of Our Lady was fostered during the Middle Ages by the Fathers of the Servite Order. It was these good priests who first enumerated the Seven Dolours of Our Lady. Pope Pius VII extended the celebration of this feast to the Universal Church in 1817, in order to recall the sufferings which the Church had undergone in the troubled period following the French Revolution.

Of course, the forces working through and beyond that revolutionary ideology are still harrowing the Church in our own present times. The difference is that those forces and ideologies have now infilitrated to the very highest levels of the Church and society.

In our times too, the words of Our Lady of Akita have come to pass: ''The priests who venerate me will be scorned and opposed by their confreres.''

One can only grieve to think how much suffering Our Blessed Lord and Our Lady of Sorrows must have endured in the Passion when they saw the organized rebellions, both within and against the Church, in the days through which we are now living.

During her life in the 14th-Century, St. Bridget of Sweden received a series of private revelations. Recorded in nine books, these ''Heavenly Revelations'' received the decisive approval of Pope Benedict XIV in the 18th-Century as being orthodox.

There follows an extract of the private revelation that St. Bridget received from the Mother of Sorrows on the subject of the Crucifixion of Our Lord.

Because I was very close to Him during His Passion and did not allow myself to be separated from Him, for I stood right next to His Cross, and because the nearer something is to the heart the keener is its stab, so His suffering was more painful to me than to others. And when He looked down at me from the Cross, and I looked up at Him, tears streamed from my eyes like blood from veins. And when He saw me so overwhelmed with grief, my sorrow made Him suffer so much that all the pains which He felt from His wounds were surpassed by the sight of the grief in which He beheld me. Therefore I boldly assert that His suffering became my suffering, because His heart was mine. And just as Adam and Eve sold the world for an apple, so in a certain sense my Son and I redeemed the world with one Heart.''

During the series of heavenly apparitions at Fatima in 1917, Blessed Francisco Marto said to Sr. Lucia: ''Didn't you notice how sad Our Lady was that last month, when she said that people must not offend Our Lord anymore, for He is already much offended? I would like to console Our Lord, and after that, convert sinners so that they won't offend Him anymore.''

In the century that has passed since those innocent words were uttered, Our Lord has been offended much more than we can possibly imagine.

The personal sins of each one of us have added to the offences caused by an epic falling away from the One True Faith, the acceptance of irreverence and sacrilege at Holy Mass, the destruction of the natural family, the vast brutalities of the two world wars and countless smaller wars, the immense scale of abortion, the global corruption of the young, the widespread persecution of Christians, and the passing of iniquitous laws approving divorce, ''gay marriage'' and euthanasia in country after country.

And now this hideous letter of Pope Francis to the bishops around Buenos Aires. It must be the worst officially headed and signed letter of a reigning pontiff in 2,000 years of Church history. But where is the outcry, or even a fraternal word of correction, from any of the cardinals and bishops?

Look: We must stop offending God with our sins, with our indifference and with our silence in the face of the grave evils and widespread sacrilege inflicting the Church and world in our times!

We have to stop making the Madonna sad!

Collect Prayer from today's Traditional Latin Mass: ''O God, in Whose Passion, according to the prophecy of Simeon, a sword of grief pierced the most sweet soul of the glorious virgin and mother, Mary; mercifully grant that we who celebrate with reverence the memory of her dolours may obtain the blessed effect of Thy Passion. Amen.''

Our Lady of Sorrows - Pray for us!



TOPICS:

Apologetics

Catholic

Moral Issues

KEYWORDS:

francischurch

And now this hideous letter of Pope Francis to the bishops around Buenos Aires. It must be the worst officially headed and signed letter of a reigning pontiff in 2,000 years of Church history. But where is the outcry, or even a fraternal word of correction, from any of the cardinals and bishops?



To: ebb tide

During the 40s & 50’s Servites used to broadcast novenas and the mass over Chicago radio from Our Lady of Sorrows basilica.



by 2 posted onby mosesdapoet (My best insights get lost in FR's because of meaningless venting no one reads.)

Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works.

FreeRepublic , LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794

FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson