http://www.asianews.network/content/crowds-pour-out-their-love-king-28941
100
10
In an historic event yesterday, hundreds of thousands of Thais congregated at the Sanam Luang and loudly sang the royal anthem to express their love for His Majesty King Bhumibol Adulyadej. The occasion will leave a lasting impression on Thais and the people worldwide.

The Nation’s Juthathip Lucksanawong asked mourners who joined the event for their impressions of the heartfelt moment.

Prakorn Sornsiri, 14, from Bangkok said: “I volunteered to help facilitate the elderly and handicapped who came to join the mass-singing event. When I escort the elderly, who sit on wheelchairs, and they say ‘thank you’ and wish me well, I feel blessed and encouraged to help the people and do good deeds in tribute to the late King.”

Tasanee Jemasukkase, 60, from Bangkok said: “This is the last chance for me to join an event to express my condolences to the King. As I am Muslim, I am not in the position to join other religious ceremonies. Hence, this singing event is my rare opportunity."

“I did not tell my daughters that I came here, as they were so worried about me and didn’t want me to come due to my inflamed knee. I told them I went to a market. The King is always in my mind since I think about him when I fry Nile tilapia (fish), which was introduced to Thais by the King. He had done so many things for us,” Jemasukkase noted.

Pornoimol Yuim, 69, from Uttaradit said: “I left Uttaradit yesterday (Friday) evening and arrived at Sanam Luang at midnight. Despite no sleep, I will wait here and join the singing event until it finishes. This is too little compared to what our Father (the King did) – devoted himself for the nation."

“I have just undergone knee surgery. However, I wanted to come,” Yuim added.

Surapong Rungratree, 88, from Pathum Thani: “I came here alone. I want to do something for my King. I am old and what I can do is come here to join the singing of the royal anthem."

“I saw him (the King) many times when he visited upcountry. I grew up at the same time as the King, as my birthday is six months after his. I feel profoundly connected to the King,” Rungratree added.

Montri Panthung, 54, from Bangkok said: “For 10 years, I have routinely prayed for him (the King), wishing him well. I am handicapped with deformed legs, but I knew I had to come. I will sing the royal anthem for him aloud to show how much I love and revere him. I am proud of my (garbage collecting) job, as it helps keep our country, our land, clean.”

Sakdayuth Wansala, 23, of Bangkok said: “I am proud (as a military staff member at the Phramongkutklao Hospital) to help the people here. Dozens of people joining the event were sick and passed out. We reach out and help them to get first aid as soon as possible. I can’t describe how much I feel blessed. I just want to do my best to help the people.”

Yiamkamol Kosonkij, 90, from Bangkok said: “It is good that this event is held, so that Thais together can express their unity and their love of the King. The King will hear and see this."

“I have experienced two painful losses. The first was the demise of King Rama VIII. (But) among hundreds of the royal events over the last 80 years, this is the most tragic and painful. I will sing aloud as the royal anthem is the sung. I have heard it for a lifetime,” Kosonkij said.

Poonsiri Piromwong, 67, from Bangkok said: “This is an auspicious day. Thai people came here to sing and show the world how much we love and revere our King. Thailand is unique in the way the people unite in their love for the beloved King. Thais love each other and value happiness and peace. Despite the current turmoil and division, we can unite and love each other when this moment of loss comes. The nation, religion, and the King are the most revered things for Thais. The demise of the King is so painful.”

Somruthai Nulasin, 26, from Rayong Province said: “I arrived here at 4 am local time. I came along with my sister’s daughter. I brought her here as I wanted to show her how much the people love the King and why. She is always curious about the late King as our family regularly speakes about the King’s good deeds and devotion.”

Vanika Chaloydam, 30, from Bangkok said: “I wanted to be part of this grateful moment, so I deployed my skill in hair dressing to serve the people. Today is the first time our team (of 30 hairdressers) has cut the people’s hair for free in tribute to the King. Many people came from far away with little money to join the singing event. (We thought) it would be good if they had their hair cut for free. Between 7 am and 10 am local time, over 40 people used our service.”