http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3765222/Be-happy-alive-crew-member-tells-passengers-180-tourists-evacuated-yellow-smoke-starts-pouring-plane-off.html
1053
10
The dramatic incident took place at Heraklion airport in Crete, Greece

A Thomas Cook plane with 180 passengers on board had to be evacuated after yellow smoke began pouring from its side as it prepared to take off.

Firefighters and paramedics were called to Heraklion airport on the Greek island of Crete after the incident on a flight to Brussels yesterday.

The aircraft was forced to abandon the take off and there was panic on board when the pilot cut the lighting and ventilation.

The plane was flying from Heraklion (pictured), the main town on the holiday island of Crete

Florence Brassart, from Lasne, Belgium said: 'When the pilot pushed the engine for take off the yellowish smoke came out of the right side of the reactor before catching fire.

'It suddenly slowed and we were all thrown forward.'

She said: 'There were many children on the plane. You can imagine the panic and stress for children.'

Ms Brassart said after the evacuation one crew member told her: 'Be happy to be alive.'

Another passenger, Fabien Herpers, said the heat on board became 'unbearable' during the incident but cabin crew needed to keep the doors closed to stop the smoke getting inside.

The pilot has just had time to stop the plane. A few metres later and he would have been impossible to go backwards Fabien Herpers

Writing on Facebook, he said: 'Just after the thrust of the engine, a yellowish smoke came out.

'The pilot has just had time to stop the plane. A few metres later and he would have been impossible to go backwards.'

He said firefighters extinguished the fire as the passengers escaped.

Thomas Cook Airlines Belgium insisted there was no fire onboard the plane.

A Thomas Cook plane takes off from Manchester airport STOCK IMAGE

A spokesperson said: 'Flight HQ1513 from Heraklion to Brussels returned to the gate after an oil leak required its takeoff to be aborted.

'This is a standard procedure, with all customers and crew disembarking the aircraft in the usual fashion before being transferred and accommodated in local hotels for the night.

'We are very sorry for their inconvenience.'

They said there was 'no increased risk' to passengers and crew during the incident.