http://thezimbabwemail.com/zimbabwe-7461-mliswa-tears-into-mujuru.html
100
10
Expelled Zanu PF lawmaker, Temba Mliswa, says ousted former Vice President Joice Mujuru is failing to protect her supporters who were booted out of the ruling party for allegedly planning to topple President Robert Mugabe.

Mliswa told journalists in Harare on Thursday that Mrs. Mujuru’s supporters of her movement believed to be named Zanu PF People First are concerned about her silence on violence in Hurungwe West where he is contesting as an independent candidate and other regions.

“Mai Mujuru has been quiet, but I believe in leaders who stand up for the people,” Mliswa said.

“If you go through a list of the number of people who suffered because of her, they are many. I sat down with my uncle (Didymus Mutasa) and said you were part of the (Zanu PF) politburo and when I was suspended what did you say? What did Mujuru say to defend me if people said I belonged to her? What did Simon Khaya Moyo (Zanu PF spokesperson) say since he was part of us?”

He said leaders should be ready to stand for the people.

“I back leaders who are prepared to stand for us and ask what wrong did he do? They were silent until all of us went and they went too and now they want to fight back and want us to join them in their fight. I will never, not me,” he said.

But Gumbo, who has been speaking on behalf of Mrs. Mujuru following their expulsion from Zanu PF, was quick to rebuke Mliswa saying he is free to join any party if he feels that the former vice president is not doing anything to cater for his political needs.

Mrs. Mujuru was ousted from the party last December together with some senior members including former party spokesman, Rugare Gumbo, and former secretary for administration, Didymus Mutasa.

Some critics have been infuriated about Mrs. Mujuru’s delay in announcing her next move following her ouster, noting that she appears to be running out of ideas.

Studio 7 could not reach the former vice president for comment as her mobile phone was switched off. VOA Studio 7