http://www.nationmultimedia.com/life/Love-friendship-and-a-white-painting-30294996.html
20
2
Bangkok Community Theatre (BCT), the oldest and largest English-speaking theatre group, was originally known for producing plays whose authors are dead. But now that the number of English-speaking theatre groups in this country has risen significantly, reflecting also the expanding expatriate community, the group’s two contemporary plays at a regular theatre venue, not a hotel ballroom, this month are worth our attention.

Opening last Thursday and continuing this weekend is John Cariani’s romantic comedy “Almost, Maine”.

“I was given the script last year by one of the Bangkok Community Theatre board members when I was looking for a new modern play to develop my directing skills,” director Peevara “PV” Kitchumnongpan says,

“I fell in love with the play after reading it the first time. John Cariani’s writing is incredibly charming and heartfelt so it comes as no surprise that ‘Almost, Maine’ is one of the most widely produced plays in the US.”

PV, a trained actor who was last seen in “Stick Figures” and “Mom: The Musical”, adds: “The play comprises nine short stories about love, with each story exploring different relationships and concepts of love with ‘almost’ no cultural barrier. I’m sure ‘Almost, Maine’ will touch the hearts of the audience in Bangkok, both Thais and foreigners alike. I’m also trying to bring a youthful energy to the English-speaking theatre scene in Bangkok. BCT has not done a straight modern play for a few years now and I’m determined to bring that trend back with this heart-warming and romantic play that is accessible to all ages.”

PV has selected a venue much smaller than those usually used for BCT events. “Because there are only a few characters on stage at any given time, I believe that with Blue Box Studio we can really zoom in on their interactions and experience the warm human connections together with the audience in a smaller space. My vision for ‘Almost, Maine’ is truthful, simple and honest, so I’m very happy to be working in such a great space.”

Next week, another BCT production will settle into the same studio, Yasmina Reza’s “Art”, the Thai version of which was at M Theatre and Kad Theatre in Chiang Mai 16 years ago.

Seasoned American director Michael Allman tells XP: “I read this play when it first became popular, around the year 2000 or so. I was working at La Crosse Community Theatre in La Crosse, Wisconsin, and we’re always looking for the latest new plays. At first I didn't really like it. For some reason it felt to me like a bad translation, very literal, like the kind they make of French or German plays, just so students can read the plays in English before attempting to read them in the original language.

“Then it was performed in La Crosse by another group and I saw how wrong I was. It’s a good lesson in re-thinking your opinions. Since then, I’ve really grown to love the play and to understand how good the writing really is. And actually living with the play through the rehearsal process has only deepened my appreciation. I've also learned a lot working with this marvellous cast.

“I decided to do it here in Bangkok, just because I love the play and I consider Bangkok my home now. I feel you should bloom where you're planted.

“I understand the play has been performed in Thai and that's a bit daunting, because I really do respect Thai actors. They really commit to their roles in a way that many western actor are a bit hesitant to do.”

As for the Blue Box Studio, Allman says, “For ‘Art’ it's perfect. The play is all about the interaction of the three characters and in this space you can see every gesture, glance and expression. We've worked a lot on what I call the 'emotional geography' of the play and it's wonderful to know that the audience will be able to follow us on every step of that journey.”

He also shares his tricks for staging comedy, “You have to be true to the script and play the emotional truth of the characters – certainly that's true in this play. The other thing that's important is clarity. Drama can be moody and atmospheric, but comedy must be crystal clear.”

SEE BOTH AND SAVE

- “Almost, Maine” continues at Blue Box Studio (2nd floor of M Theatre, New Phetchaburi road between Ekamai and Thonglor from Thursday to Saturday, 7:30pm.

- “Art” is on September 23-24, and September 29-October 1, same curtain time, same venue.

n Ticket for each is Bt500 (10-per-cent discount if you book both) at BangkokCommunityTheatre.com.