http://www.presstv.ir/Detail/2016/10/11/488519/UK-EU-Brexit-David-Davis
100
10
UK Brexit Secretary David Davis has said the government would reject any attempt to undo or delay the result of a referendum on June 23 when Britons opted for an exit from the European Union.

"The mandate is clear and we will reject any attempt to undo the referendum result, any attempt to hold up the process unduly, or any attempt to keep Britain in the EU by the back door by those who didn't like the answer they were given on June 23rd," Davis told parliament on Monday.

His remarks came after a number of MPs from all sides on Monday called for a parliamentary vote on ties with the EU in the future, warning that Brexit would pose a “great danger.”

Davis, however, said that the UK government should "respect” the British people’s decision, noting that “no one should seek to thwart the will of the people.”

"It's now incumbent on the government to deliver an exit in the most orderly and smooth way possible, delivering maximum certainty for businesses and workers," he stated.

On Friday, a group of business lobbyists warned British Prime Minister Theresa May against persuing a “hard Brexit,” calling on her to insure that the UK will continue to have access to the EU market after it leaves the bloc.

May delivers an address on the final day of the annual Conservative Party conference at the International Convention Center in Birmingham, central England, on October 5, 2016. (Photo by AFP)

The so-called “hard Brexit” suggests surrendering access to the EU’s single market and scrapping the free movement of EU nationals in return for securing control over immigration.

Following the June referendum, the EU members decided to trigger Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty -- the step required to officially begin the withdrawal -- as soon as possible in an effort to end what they called political and economic uncertainty.

Starting the negotiations would begin a two-year countdown for the UK to separate itself from Brussels.

On October 2, May said that she would formally begin the Brexit process by the end of March 2017.

Her promise means that Britain will leave the bloc by spring 2019, before the country’s next general elections.