http://www.indiatimes.com/news/india/everyone-including-those-doubting-surgical-strike-can-take-credit-for-it-says-parrikar-263406.html
1044
10
Even as the Centre and the opposition spar over political capital being made of the surgical strikes on Pakistan, defence minister Manohar Parrikar said that even those doubting the surgical strikes took place can take credit for them, although "the major share of the credit" for the strikes must go to PM Narendra Modi and the Indian Army.

PTI

"Even those doubting the strikes can share the credit. I don't mind sharing the credit, with every countryman because it is done by our armed forces and not by any political party. So all Indians, including, those doubting it also, can share the credit."

Parrikar's comments were a none-too-subtle reference to people like Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal who said the PM should present proof of the strike on seven terrorist camps in Pakistan-Occupied-Kashmir late last month. The minister was also answering opposition critics who said the BJP is "taking advantage of the bloodshed of soldiers."

ALSO READ: Politics Over Surgical Strikes Intensifies As Congress, SP Blame BJP Of Taking Political Advantage

AFP

The Congress party has claimed that while it was in power, three cross-border raids were carried out, but that it chose not to publicize these to avoid the conflict with Pakistan from escalating.

According to reports, PM Modi too has asked his ministers to not do any "chest thumping" about the success of the September 29 surgical strikes, which were in retaliation for the terror attack on September 18 in Uri in Jammu and Kashmir.

ALSO READ: According To His Party's Poster Mulayam Singh Yadav Organised Surgical Strike

AFP

Pakistan has denied the cross-border strikes, accusing New Delhi of misrepresenting cross-border exchange of fire as 'surgical strikes.'

Parrikar also said the surgical strikes have been a balm for people across the country who were outraged by the Uri terror attack.

"I understand (that) people's sentiments are satisfied and population is satisfied," he said.

Originally published in Times of India