http://news2.onlinenigeria.com/news/general/537553-govt-had-formulated-framework-on-job-creation-%E2%80%93-osinbajo.html
100
10
Home | News | General | Govt had formulated framework on job creation – Osinbajo

Abuja – Panelists at the ongoing 22nd Nigerian Economic Summit (NES) on Tuesday in Abuja advocated formulation of clear policies and incentives for companies as means of generating employment in the country.

These were the views of some panelists who spoke at the Plenary on Roundtable with the Vice President on Job Creation, Skills and Employment at the summit.

One of the panelists, Jay Ireland, General Electrics based in Nairobi, said formulation of clear policies on how to create jobs would help to address unemployment.

Osinbajo

Ireland said that government should have consistent policies that would work and the policies that both government and private would be accountable for.

He said that continued training of personnel would also help so that the unemployed could learn from those already working in the companies.

“We should make companies invest locally and hire locally and build up their supply chains which will have multiplier effect

“Big companies drive small companies so we need big companies if we do that we will continue to increase employment,’’ he said.

Aliko Dangote said that providing incentive for companies would motivate them to create jobs or provide opportunities for industrial training.

He, however, urged the government to focus on real sectors of the economy to create jobs, saying that the economic recession was a lesson for the country to implement its diversification drive.

He also said that his company would be able to make fertiliser available by 2017 through the good policies of the Federal Government.

“I think by the end of next year, people who are going to sell fertilisers, you will buy it cheaper than what you were buying it now

“We will be begging you to buy it, there will not be scarcity of fertiliser anymore; we have three million tonnes of capacity coming into the country by that time,’’ he said.

Also, Alhaji Abubakar Baguda said that the country needed political will to implement some of its policies on job creations.

“I have mentioned political will; we are not alone, other countries are competing with us.

“Just two weeks, there was disapproval by the U.S. that there was a complaint by World Trade Organisation (WTO) against China, that rice, wheat and corn subsidy in China was distorting the market.

“They are distorting the market particularly those of America, wheat and rice farmers since it created WTO by countries again conducts of others.

“If we have this clarity or policy direction, it will enable us to conform and compensate for those distortion that are coming from outside,’’ he said.

He said that NAFDAC had a news conference last week on the quality of rice coming into the country through the land border.

He said that the agency concluded that huge percentage of rice coming into the country was not fit for human consumption.

The Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, said that the government had formulated a framework on job creation in the country.

“ What can be done is to continue with this engagement, tilling the issues and try to address the issues.

“We are engaging all the Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) that are facilitating trade; they have to encourage business and promote it.

“This is the only way to create jobs; it is not from government alone.

“The Federal Government and states are very focused on creating jobs and improve environment for creating jobs,’’ he said.

Rate this article 0

CLICK HERE TO READ MORE FROM: General