http://www.sfgate.com/business/article/Samsung-kills-off-Galaxy-Note7-9964131.php
100
10
Samsung kills off Galaxy Note7

SEOUL — Samsung Electronics is killing its troubled Galaxy Note7 smartphone, a humbling about-face for the South Korean giant and its global brand. In an unprecedented move, the company will no longer produce or market the smartphones.

The demise of the Galaxy Note7 is a major setback for Samsung, the world’s largest maker of smartphones. The premium device — with a 5.7-inch screen, curved contours and comparatively high price — won praise from consumers and reviewers, and was the company’s most ambitious effort yet to take on Apple for the high-end market.

But Samsung has struggled to address reports that the Note7 could overheat and catch fire because of a manufacturing flaw. Last month, the company said it would recall 2.5 million phones to fix the problem. But Note7 users reported that some devices that had supposedly been repaired were overheating, smoking and even bursting into flames. And on Monday, Samsung asked Note7 customers to power off the phones while it worked on the problem.





















Photo: Shawn L. Minter, AP Image 1 of / 6 Caption Close Image 1 of 6 This Sunday, Oct. 9, 2016, photo shows damage to a bedside table after a Samsung Galaxy Note 7 caught fire on the table in Richmond, Va. Samsung Electronics said Tuesday, Oct. 11, that it is discontinuing production of Galaxy Note 7 smartphones permanently, a day after stopping global sales of the ill-fated devices. (Shawn L. Minter via AP) less This Sunday, Oct. 9, 2016, photo shows damage to a bedside table after a Samsung Galaxy Note 7 caught fire on the table in Richmond, Va. Samsung Electronics said Tuesday, Oct. 11, that it is discontinuing ... more Photo: Shawn L. Minter, AP Image 2 of 6 This Sunday, Oct. 9, 2016, photo shows a damaged Samsung Galaxy Note 7 on a table in Richmond, Va., after it caught fire earlier in the day. Samsung Electronics said Tuesday, Oct. 11, that it is discontinuing production of Galaxy Note 7 smartphones permanently, a day after stopping global sales of the ill-fated devices. (Shawn L. Minter via AP) less This Sunday, Oct. 9, 2016, photo shows a damaged Samsung Galaxy Note 7 on a table in Richmond, Va., after it caught fire earlier in the day. Samsung Electronics said Tuesday, Oct. 11, that it is discontinuing ... more Photo: Shawn L. Minter, AP Image 3 of 6 This Friday, Oct. 7, 2016, photo provided by Andrew Zuis, of Farmington, Minn., shows the replacement Samsung Galaxy Note 7 phone belonging to his 13-year-old daughter Abby, that melted in her hand earlier in the day. "She's done with Note 7s right now," Zuis said of his daughter. Reports of more replacement phones catching fire are trickling in, and the South Korean tech giant faces more scrutiny after earlier criticism for being slow to react and sending confusing signals in the first days of the recall. (Andrew Zuis via AP) less This Friday, Oct. 7, 2016, photo provided by Andrew Zuis, of Farmington, Minn., shows the replacement Samsung Galaxy Note 7 phone belonging to his 13-year-old daughter Abby, that melted in her hand earlier in ... more Photo: Andrew Zuis, AP Image 4 of 6 FILE - In this Friday, Sept. 2, 2016, file photo, a woman walks by an advertisement of the Samsung Electronics Galaxy Note 7 smartphone at the company's showroom in Seoul, South Korea. Samsung is asking owners of its fire-prone Galaxy Note 7 to do something crazy: “power down and stop using the device.” This is all but unthinkable in an age where smartphones have become an extra limb, the last thing we look at before falling asleep and the first thing we grab in the morning, not to mention throughout the day. less FILE - In this Friday, Sept. 2, 2016, file photo, a woman walks by an advertisement of the Samsung Electronics Galaxy Note 7 smartphone at the company's showroom in Seoul, South Korea. Samsung is asking owners ... more Photo: Ahn Young-joon, AP Image 5 of 6 FILE - In this Monday, Oct. 10, 2016, file photo, South Korean high school students try out Samsung Electronics Galaxy Note 7 smartphones at the company's shop in Seoul in Seoul, South Korea. Samsung is asking owners of its fire-prone Galaxy Note 7 to do something crazy: “power down and stop using the device.” This is all but unthinkable in an age where smartphones have become an extra limb, the last thing we look at before falling asleep and the first thing we grab in the morning, not to mention throughout the day. less FILE - In this Monday, Oct. 10, 2016, file photo, South Korean high school students try out Samsung Electronics Galaxy Note 7 smartphones at the company's shop in Seoul in Seoul, South Korea. Samsung is asking ... more Photo: Ahn Young-joon, AP Image 6 of 6 A visitor tries out a Samsung Electronics Galaxy Note 7 smartphone at the company's shop in Seoul in Seoul, South Korea, Monday, Oct. 10, 2016. Samsung Electronics has temporarily halted production of its Galaxy Note 7 smartphones, South Korea's Yonhap news agency reported Monday, following reports that replacements for the fire-prone phones were also overheating. less A visitor tries out a Samsung Electronics Galaxy Note 7 smartphone at the company's shop in Seoul in Seoul, South Korea, Monday, Oct. 10, 2016. Samsung Electronics has temporarily halted production of its ... more Photo: Ahn Young-joon, AP Samsung kills off Galaxy Note7 1 / 6 Back to Gallery

In a filing with the South Korean stock exchange late Tuesday, Samsung said it had made a “final decision” to stop production. The company will no longer make or market the phones, said a person familiar with the decision, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because Samsung did not publicly disclose details.

Samsung has a strong position in modestly priced smartphones and has made progress in challenging the Apple iPhone for the high end of the market. Samsung showed its confidence in the new Galaxy Note7 by skipping a sixth version in the series and offering the new phone beginning in August, before Apple’s introduction of its iPhone 7.

It was unclear where the Note7’s problem began. But Samsung’s fight to catch up with Apple by cramming increasingly sophisticated features into the device may have been the phone’s undoing. Industry experts are scrutinizing Samsung’s supply chain to see whether the rush to market caused technical problems or led to corners being cut.

“With the Note7, Samsung strengthened its power as a speedy competitor,” said Lee Seung-woo, an analyst with IBK Investment & Securities. “But one wonders whether it hasn’t raced ahead alone, without helping its component suppliers to catch up.”

The company is facing an immediate, and substantial, financial blow. On Tuesday, even before Samsung had announced it was killing the Galaxy Note7, its South Korea-traded shares fell more than 8 percent, the biggest daily drop since 2008, knocking $17 billion off the company’s market value.

Strategy Analytics, a research firm, had earlier estimated that Samsung could lose more than $10 billion from the phone’s troubles. Samsung’s smartphone business also helps its other divisions by buying their computer chips and panel screens.

Tougher to predict is how badly the Samsung brand itself will suffer. “It’s difficult to estimate now the damage it has caused to Samsung’s mid- and long-term brand value,” Lee said, “as well as its impact on Samsung’s smartphone sales in the future.”

An editorial in South Korea’s largest newspaper, the Chosun Ilbo, said: “You cannot really calculate the loss of consumer trust in money.” It said that Samsung must realize that it “didn’t take many years for Nokia to tumble from its position as the world’s top cellphone maker.”

No major manufacturer has killed off such a high-profile smartphone at the height of its popularity. But the person familiar with Samsung’s decision to end production said the company determined that simply removing the Note7 from the market would be the quickest way to stem further confusion and anxiety about the phone, albeit a costly one.

It is an embarrassing moment for Samsung, whose name has come to be synonymous among South Koreans with cutting-edge technology and manufacturing prowess.

The troubling part for many is that Samsung recalled the devices, but then had to try to fix the problem a second time.

“Maybe they should look harder and closer at what is happening at the management level,” said Roberta Cozza, a research director with Gartner Research, who cited the damage to Samsung’s credibility with customers and with telecommunications carriers.