http://dailytimes.com.pk/islamabad/11-Oct-16/pti-moves-appeal-in-sc-against-orange-line-metro-train
100
10
ISLAMABAD: The Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf (PTI) on Monday moved an appeal in the Supreme Court as a party in the case of Rs 45 billion Orange Line Metro Train (OLMT) project. The government of Punjab had challenged the Lahore High Court (LHC's) judgment of August 19, in which while setting aside the NOCs the provincial government was restrained from carrying out development work relating to OLMT within a distance of 200 feet around 10 heritage sites in Lahore.

The five judge bench of the apex court, headed by Chief Justice of Pakistan Anwar Zaheer Jamali will on October 13 hear different appeals filed by NESPAK, Lahore Development Authority and Punjab government appeals against LHC's judgment. However, in the recent development of PTI's President in District Lahore (Urban) Waleed Iqbal filed the petition under Order V Rule 2(2) of Supreme Court Rules, 1980, to implead party in the OTMP case.

He stated that he took the office of President PTI District Lahore (Urban) on 25-08-2016, while the LHC judgment was announced on 19-08-2016. Therefore, he could not file the application before the High Court.

"We will expose how the project threatens national monuments and heritage sites that not only give pride to the people of Lahore but also give them insight into past glory of their structural, cultural, sculptural artistic and archeological skills," stated the applicant Waleed.

He stated that the NOCs were granted by the officials without putting any thought into it and acted against the policy of law, adding that these ways and manners clearly demonstrate that the decision taken by the Punjab government was based upon vested interest, mala fide and against public interest.

These heritage sites are also a source of the vision and wisdom to their ancestors, he stated, adding that the appeal is taking up not just a matter of national importance and national laws, including Antiquity Act 1975, the Punjab Special Premises (Preservation) Ordinance 1985, the Punjab Heritage Foundation Act 2005, but is also of international significance in light of UNESCO Convention.

PTI further contended that they would reveal before the bench that how the state's functionaries have acted against the policy of law merely to promote the whims of their political masters and to please them. The applicant said that his presence before the august court is necessary as he would assist it to settle the questions involved in the appeal.