http://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2016/06/23/world/starvation-claims-200-refugees-mainly-kids-fled-boko-haram-nigeria-camp/
101
10
Nearly 200 refugees from Boko Haram have died of starvation and dehydration in the northeastern Nigerian city of Bama in the past month, Doctors Without Borders said Wednesday.

The refugees “speak of children dying of hunger and digging new graves every day,” according to a statement from the group, also known by its French acronym MSF.

“A catastrophic humanitarian emergency” is unfolding at a makeshift camp on a hospital compound where 24,000 people have taken refuge, it said.

The doctors referred 16 emaciated children at risk of dying to their special feeding center in Maiduguri. One in five of the 15,000 children are suffering severe acute malnutrition, the group found.

“We see the trauma on the faces of our patients who have witnessed and survived many horrors,” said Ghada Hatim, head of the Doctors Without Borders mission in Nigeria.

Her team reached Bama on Tuesday following a military convoy from Maiduguri, the Borno state capital that is the headquarters of Nigeria’s military campaign.

Though Bama is just 70 km (45 miles) southeast of Maiduguri, ongoing clashes between the militants and troops make travel unsafe and farmers have not planted crops for 18 months, Dr. Christopher Mampula of Doctors Without Borders explained by telephone from Paris.

Boko Haram fighters routinely burn down homes and destroy wells, leaving few water sources in an area where temperatures often soar above 40 degrees (100 degrees Fahrenheit).

The Islamic militants seized Bama in September 2014 and Nigerian troops recaptured it in March 2015. Nigeria’s military has greatly curtailed the seven-year-old insurgency that has killed some 20,000 people, but militants still attack villages, deploy suicide bombers and have staged attacks across Nigeria’s borders in Chad, Niger and Cameroon.

The refugees in Bama are among 1.8 million Nigerians forced from their homes and living inside the country, with another 155,000 in neighboring countries, according to the United Nations.

At least 188 people have died in the internally displaced people (IDP) camp in Bama since May 23 — about six a day — mainly from diarrhea and malnutrition, MSF said in a statement.

A total of 1,233 graves, many of them of for children, had been dug near the camp in the past year, the agency said.

“This is the first time MSF has been able to access Bama but we already know the needs of the people there are beyond critical,” said MSF head of mission in Nigeria Ghada Hatim.

The Borno state government and international aid agencies have previously warned about acute food shortages for IDPs in northeast Nigeria and the wider Lake Chad region.

On June 15, the Borno state government said it had transferred nearly 700 people, most of them children, from Bama to Maiduguri for treatment for severe malnutrition.

Sixty-one young children and babies were said to be “critically malnourished.”

A civilian vigilante and a soldier based in the remote town of Banki, 60 km from Bama near the Cameroon border, told AFP this month at least 10 people were “starving to death” every day.

The vigilante said 376 people had been buried in the last three months and those still alive were like “walking corpses.”

Boko Haram controlled swaths of territory in the northeast in 2014.

But the Nigerian government has said IDPs housed in camps or host communities can return after a military counteroffensive pushed the militants out of captured towns and villages.

Despite assurances the northeast is largely clear of the rebels, sporadic attacks continue and security remains an issue, while houses, businesses and farms have largely been destroyed.

Domestic and international aid agencies are mainly based in Maiduguri and dependent on Nigerian army assistance to access camps outside the city.

The Borno state governor, Kashim Shettima, last week ordered police to investigate reports that relief material, including bags of rice meant for IDPs, was being stolen.

UNICEF said it has been working with its partners in Bama since March and has provided health and nutrition support for some 19,000 people.

Its primary health care center sees on average 140 patients a day for conditions ranging from malaria, respiratory infections and diarrhea, as well as malnutrition screening and treatment.