http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/717757/Donald-Tusk-EU-presidency-under-threat-over-Polish-criminal-probe
100
10
GETTY Donald Tusk is under pressure in Poland over the plane crash that killed the president in 2010

Mr Tusk is facing a potential criminal probe in his home country after he became embroiled in a scandal relating to a plane crash during commemorations of the 70th anniversary of the Katyn massacre. The crash, in Smolensk, Russia in April 2010, killed 96 people including former president President Lech Kaczyński and his wife, the president of Poland’s central bank, as well as notable political and military figures. Current president Jarosław Kaczyński, the twin brother of the popular former president, believes criminal charges could be filed against Mr Tusk over the crash.

GETTY The pressure is mounting on Mr Tusk as his elections dreams are marred in Poland

I can imagine the Polish government would not support Donald Tusk for a second term in the European Council Jarosław Kaczyński

In the most public comments yet on the growing controversy, 67-year-old Kaczyński says a parliamentary probe could effectively end Mr Tusk's political ambitions. In an interview with Polish newspaper Polska Times which is due to be published in full on Friday, Mr Kaczyński said he has "profound doubts" that Tusk should be at the "forefront of the European Council." He added: "I can imagine the Polish government would not support Donald Tusk for a second term in the European Council.

“There are investigations being conducted by parliament and prosecutors that could see some charges filed against him. Should a person like that stand at the head of the European Council? I have my doubts.” Prosecutors in Poland have launched four investigations into the Smolensk crash which the Polish president believes Mr Tusk carries a "moral responsibility" for. The Government recently changed the law to provide politicians with far reaching power to implement an investigation. They merged the posts of prosecutor-general and justice minister, giving Zbigniew Ziobro, the justice minister, direct control over the investigation and he is now said to be at advanced stages of his investigation.

GETTY President Jarosław Kaczyński attends a memorial service for his twin brother, his wife and victims

However Mr Tusk who spends the majority of his time now travelling around the world shoring up support for the failing EU administration has hit back at the claims in a tweet. Tackling the allegations head on he said: “Maybe a debate, Mr Chairman? About Europe, Poland and your insinuations. I’m available.” Last week Lawyer Rafal Rogalski told Polish station TVN24 that it is believed Mr Tusk could be held to account for "acting to the detriment of Poland.

GETTY President Kaczyński's daughter and granddaughter attend his funeral service with his twin brother

He said: "In my opinion, the prosecutor investigating the responsibility of Donald Tusk, the then Prime Minister, Radoslaw Sikorski, the foreign minister, diplomatic corps, officials of the Prime Minister from the time of Tusk and Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz. "[Section] 129 of the Criminal Code can allow anyone who is authorised to act on behalf of the Republic in its relations with the government of a foreign state or foreign organisation and having such authorisation, acts to the detriment of Poland [to be prosecuted]." In June Polish prosecutors revealed they were to reopen the coffins to examine the victims. The Ruling Law and Justice (PiS) party, led by current President Kaczyński, is determined to prove that the crash happened as a result of an "explosion" on board the plane. The elections are scheduled for May next year.