http://www.standardmedia.co.ke/article/2000203246/judiciary-sliding-into-paralysis-as-top-judges-fight-for-survival
100
10


Updated Sat, May 28th 2016 at 00:00 GMT +3

The country was last night sliding into an assured judicial and political paralysis after two Supreme Court judges moved to their own court to challenge an order on them to retire.

Barely hours after a seven judge Court of Appeal bench ruled that they must retire, Deputy Chief Justice Kalpana Rawal and Judge Philip Tunoi rushed to the Supreme Court and obtained conservatory orders from the duty judge Lady Justice Njoki Ndung’u.

“What we witnessed today is a gangster approach of doing things. The conservatory order itself is null and void. One judge cannot purport to issue a conservatory order against the known rules of the court. I will personally fight the order,” said lawyer Apollo Mboya.

Further, Mboya said he will file misconduct proceedings against Justice Ndung’u. A process of getting at least two other Supreme Court judges to review Justice Ndung’u’s order will be commenced simultaneously with constitutional court action.

The fast move sent shock waves as legal minds predicted a definite legal quagmire because the country’s top most court is itself, in observers’ views, mired in myriad of issues which predispose it against hearing the matter.

Foreseeing this eventuality, the Commission on Administrative Justice, popularly known as the “Office of the Ombudsman” issued an advisory opinion as early as January 5, 2016 warning against dragging the Supreme Court into the matter.

“The decision of the Court of Appeal ought to be accepted as final in the interest of justice. A further appeal to the Supreme Court would be inappropriate and riddled with conflicting interests. This is because of the seven judges of the Supreme Court, two including the Chief Justice are members of the JSC who took the view that retirement of judges ought to be at 70; two other judges are the subject of the appeal, while the remaining three judges were part of the bench that expressed the opinion that the judges ought to serve up to 74 years,” the advisory reads.

Lack of quorum

Chief Justice Willy Mutunga chairs the JSC and is retiring in two weeks’ time while Justice Smokin Wanjala represents the Supreme Court at the JSC.

Judges Ndung’u – who issued the conservatory orders yesterday – Jackton Ojwang’ and Mohamed Ibrahim were part of a five-judge bench which controversially pronounced themselves on the question of retirement and nullified the JSC letter asking Tunoi to retire.

Their pronouncement is the subject of a tribunal proceedings lodged against them by Mboya, a former Law Society of Kenya (LSK) CEO.