http://www.news.com.au/national/northern-territory/housing-department-chief-mike-chiodo-departs-after-sudden-resignation/news-story/f301562bba1b8b59d8c533ec6f385ead
100
10
CHRISTOPHER WALSH NT News

A SENIOR bureaucrat who last week was told his job was safe has suddenly resigned after a meeting with the Gunner Government.

Mike Chiodo, chief executive of the Housing Department, mysteriously resigned on Monday despite arranging meetings for the rest of the week, sources in the public service said.

Just last week, Chief Minister Michael Gunner’s office, as well as acting head bureaucrat Jodie Ryan, released a “key agency changes” list with Mr Chiodo’s name on it, indicating he was staying in the role. Four other chief executives were outright sacked at that time.

Housing Minister Gerry McCarthy said yesterday in an email that Mr Chiodo was not sacked, and that “negotiations” with other chief executives were “ongoing”.

“It was important to announce our changes to the machinery of government early to provide certainty to both the public service and the public,” he said, adding that “we don’t expect any substantive changes in the foreseeable future”.

Mr McCarthy said Mr Chiodo resigned after being offered a role in the Environment Department to make way for changes in Housing.

Mr Chiodo is highly regarded in the public service. He will be replaced temporarily by Andrew Kirkman, the chief executive of Infrastructure, while the Government recruits.

Meanwhile, the first meeting of the new cabinet occurred yesterday, but Mr Gunner would not discuss the issues raised until today, when it’s expected he will announce details of Labor’s fracking moratorium. Also yesterday, Mr Gunner called a trip to Malaysia by one of his assistant ministers as “the first step” in bringing the Arafura Games back to the NT.

Newly-elected Sanderson MLA Kate Worden will fly to the Sabah International Expo with a delegation organised by the NT Chamber of Commerce this week.

Labor kept their commitment of reporting the cost of Government travel by revealing Ms Worden’s trip will cost taxpayers just over $3300 over three days this week.

The Arafura Games were ended by the previous CLP Government.