http://www.business-standard.com/article/pti-stories/court-directs-mathew-samuel-to-appear-before-kolkata-police-116072101354_1.html
100
10
Court directs Mathew Samuel to appear before Kolkata Police

A city court has directed Narada News CEO Mathew Samuel to appear before Kolkata Police within seven days in connection with the ongoing probe into the Narada sting operation. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Sanjay Ranjan Paul issued the order yesterday as per provision of Section 41A of CrPC and asked Samuel to appear before the Assistant Commissioner of Police, Economic Offence Wing of the Detective Department within seven days of the receipt of the notice. The order relates to the case lodged against Samuel by Kolkata Mayor and Fire and Emergency Services Minister Sovan Chattopadhyay's wife Ratna Chattopadhyay. The court said that Samuel's presence is required before the Investigating Officer as he is acquainted with the facts and circumstances of the case. Two court notices had been sent to Samuel by the Investigation Officer on June 26 and July 1, asking for his appearance, but on both occasions he had failed to appear. When contacted, Samuel, who is currently abroad, told ...

A city has directed Narada CEO Mathew Samuel to appear before Police within seven days in connection with the ongoing probe into the Narada sting operation.



Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Sanjay Ranjan Paul issued the order yesterday as per provision of Section 41A of CrPC and asked Samuel to appear before the Assistant Commissioner of Police, Economic Offence Wing of the Detective Department within seven days of the receipt of the notice.



The order relates to the case lodged against Samuel by Mayor and Fire and Emergency Services Minister Sovan Chattopadhyay's wife Ratna Chattopadhyay.



The said that Samuel's presence is required before the Investigating Officer as he is acquainted with the facts and circumstances of the case.



Two notices had been sent to Samuel by the Investigation Officer on June 26 and July 1, asking for his appearance, but on both occasions he had failed to appear.



When contacted, Samuel, who is currently abroad, told PTI, "Yes, I have received the mail from Police containing the notice. I reiterate that the subject matter is pending for consideration of the High of Calcutta and I have submitted all documents, materials, original footage and all equipment that I have used as per the direction of the high court."



"I have not yet been served with a copy of the complaint which is the basis for this case," he said.

The SIT of Police had earlier questioned Trinamool Congress MLA Iqbal Ahmed and IPS officer S M Hussain Mirza in connection with the sting operation, which showed persons resembling TMC leaders accepting cash in exchange of services.



On June 17, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had ordered a probe by the police into the sting operation and had claimed her party had not taken "a single penny" from anyone in the Saradha chit fund scam and the Narada sting operation.



The SIT under Police Commissioner Rajeev Kumar was formed to conduct the probe.



An investigation into the Narada sting operation is on by the Lok Sabha Ethics Committee, while a case on the issue is pending before the Calcutta High Court.

Press Trust of India