http://www.heraldscotland.com/politics/14652265.Campaigners_call_for_named_person_trials_to_cease_immediately_following_court_victory/
1043
10
TRIALS of the controversial named person service should be immediately suspended after legislation the scheme is based on was found to be unlawful, campaigners have said.

The No to Named Persons (NO2NP) group, which this week won a Supreme Court victory when it was ruled that Scottish Government plans for data sharing breached human rights laws, has warned that councils that have operated the scheme for years with Holyrood approval could now face having to pay out millions as a result of legal action.

Read more: Kevin McKenna: Named Person scheme has seen SNP at its worst

The possibility was backed up by Jane Mair, a professor of law at Glasgow University. Asked whether councils running the scheme were in breach of the law and face court cases, she replied: "I think that is a possibility... because this legislation has followed on from practice that is already in place."

Simon Calvert, NO2NP spokesman, said: "Many Scottish families whose lives have been already been impacted by illegal intrusions in recent years have approached us and are seeking legal advice."

Calling for existing schemes to cease, he added: "They have no legal jurisdiction and in fact are in breach of the law. All the information which has been gathered in recent years should be handed over to families and any data which is held by public bodies should be removed and destroyed."

Councils operating the service, such as those Edinburgh, Highland and Lanarkshire, are believed to have reviewed their practices and taken legal advice.

The Scottish Government has insisted it will make appropriate changes to the legislation before rolling out the named person service, which sees a state-appointed figure assigned to look out for the welfare of every child in Scotland, "as soon as possible".

Read more: Readers' Opinion: Named Person scheme should not be used as a stick with which to beat the SNP

However, the Scottish Tories yesterday said Nicola Sturgeon should now admit her law is not "proportionate and appropriate", as former children's minister Aileen Campbell claimed in March.

The party's education spokeswoman, Liz Smith, said: "The SNP was told consistently that plans to share children’s confidential details were wrong. But critics were just brushed aside and told they were scaremongering. We now need to know how it was ever allowed to get to this stage.

"Either the Scottish Government knew it risked breaking human rights laws and went ahead anyway, or didn’t realise – in which case it has been utterly negligent. The SNP needs to stop the arrogance and accept these plans were wrong."