http://city-press.news24.com/News/let-the-world-see-what-oscar-did-nel-on-reeva-photos-20160615
100
10


















































Pistorius will be sentenced on July 6. – News24 Nel said finding that Pistorius had expressed remorse was unacceptable since he had not offered a credible explanation for his actions. “Remorse for what?” Nel asked. The court replaced it with a verdict of murder. It found that he was a poor witness, and that he never provided an acceptable explanation for firing the shots that killed Steenkamp. He was quoting the appeal court’s ruling that overturned Masipa’s finding that Pistorius was guilty of culpable homicide for killing Steenkamp in February 2013. “One notices all too frequently a willingness on the part of sentencing courts to deviate from minimum sentences for the flimsiest of reasons,” Nel read. He said sentencing Pistorius to correctional supervision would fail to pay “due regard” to the benchmark of 15 years for murder, which was set down by law. He quoted from a Supreme Court of Appeal ruling that crime was still on the rise in South Africa. “Courts have a duty to impose minimum sentences,” he told Masipa during his closing arguments. Nel argued that Pistorius had to be sentenced to a minimum of 15 years for Steenkamp’s murder. Pistorius made his way back across the court, his face red and streaked with tears. He sat down next to the police officers, put his prostheses back on and walked back into the dock. He sat there, doubled over, hiding his face in his hands. “It’s not a man running on two healthy legs. It’s a severely compromised person.” He stood there for several minutes as Roux continued talking. Pistorius reached the left side of the court and stopped, holding on to a bench. His psychologist Lore Hartzenberg came up to him to comfort him. Someone handed him a tissue as he began crying. Several old ladies who had been in court all week to show their support for him, began sobbing.

“Just take off the legs,” Roux instructed him. Pistorius did as he was told. Three police officers next to him looked uncomfortable as he took off his prostheses. Pistorius got up and slowly made his way across the court, in front of Masipa’s bench, steadying himself on the furniture. He kept his eyes down.