http://zeenews.india.com/entertainment/celebrity/taking-a-stand-is-considered-anti-national-kabir-khan_1895828.html
100
10
Mumbai: Filmmaker Kabir Khan says a problem that the film industry is facing today is that the moment one tries to take a stand on social issues, the person is labelled as an anti-national.

The "Bajrangi Bhaijaan" helmer says he does not like generalisations regarding the film industry as it includes people from different backgrounds and ideologies.

"The problem that's happening and I am seeing right now is the whole narrative which is being build up. The moment you critique anything in the country you are being labelled (an) anti-national," he says.

"I become uncomfortable when people say Bollywood or the film industry is one mass of people because we really are made up of different individuals and diverse ideologies," he adds.

Citing the example of the movie "Udta Punjab", Khan says just because a person is talking about a problem doesn't mean that he doesn't love his country.

"So if you are making a 'Udta Punjab' and talking about drug problem in Punjab, you are essentially defaming Punjab. I have never I understood this argument," he quips.

"If we critique something happening in the country that means we love our country more than those who stay indifferent," the director adds.

The "Phantom" helmer was speaking here as part of the panel discussion on 'Soft Power, Hard Influence' along with Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Vikas Swarup and Saffronart CEO Hugo Weihe.

Khan, who has directed movies like "Kabul Express", "New York" and "Ek Tha Tiger", says whenever someone takes a stand on an issue, it is considered as doing "disservice" to the nation.

"That is the problem which over the past couple of years we are facing in the film industry. Whenever we try to take a hard stand on something, on certain social issues, there are always trolls, people coming out and calling you anti- nationals, that you are doing disservice to the country."

The makers of "Udta Punjab", which deals with the issue of substance abuse in Punjab, had locked horns with the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC).

The Bombay High Court yesterday ordered the CBFC to certify the movie within two days with just one cut so that its producers can release the film on June 17.