http://www.timeslive.co.za/thetimes/2016/06/15/Hawks-boss-Ntlemeza-on-thin-ice
100
10
Ntlemeza is accused of abusing his position and pursuing liberation activists when he was an apartheid-era policeman.

"We call on President Zuma to remove Ntlemeza as the head of the Hawks with immediate effect," the league's national secretary, Mluleki Dlelanga, said in Johannesburg yesterday. "It is beyond comprehension as to how a former apartheid security branch operative could be appointed head of the Hawks."

Last month, Police Minister Nkosinathi Nhleko defended Ntlemeza from similar accusations, saying descriptions of Ntlemeza as an apartheid-era policeman were unfair, because blacks joined the police at the time because they needed work, not to uphold the system.

Ntlemeza is also accused of using Hawks' resources to fight ANC factional battles. Dlelanga said the security arms of the state were more concerned with internal political rivalries than with state security.

Bongani Mwale, a member of the n ational committee of the league, said Ntlemeza should refrain from "pushing his own agenda".

"We want to ... warn him that he is driving a highly disruptive programme. That man is going to hurt himself. He must be very careful," said Mwale.

Judge Elias Matojane in the Pretoria High Court in March scolded Ntlemeza for lying and described him as "dishonest". Matojane said Ntlemeza had lied repeatedly in giving evidence in an appeal against a court ruling in favour of Gauteng Hawks head Shadrack Sibiya, who had been accused of fraud involving R24000 in false travel-expenses claims in 2012.

The S A Communist Party has accused Ntlemeza of targeting Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan by threatening to investigate him for his role in setting up a surveillance unit at SARS during his time there as commissioner.

The league said it was concerned about the state of the tripartite alliance because, it said, state institutions were being used to fight political battles. It urged Zuma to distance himself from the so-called "premier league", which it said was trying to determine the next leadership of the ANC.

"Our leader in Moses Mabhida is saying Comrade Jacob Zuma is the chairman of the premier league. We don't dispute that.

"It's up to him to portray that he is not the chairman of the premier league, because a president of the ANC in these trying times in the movement is supposed to be the one that unites the alliance."