http://standardmedia.co.ke/article/2000207308/grief-and-shock-as-kin-view-bodies-or-murder-victims-at-city-mortuary
1053
10


Updated Sat, July 2nd 2016 at 11:07 GMT +3

The entrance to the Nairobi City Mortuary. The families of two of the three slain victims of an abduction possibly linked to a court case involving a rogue police officer recounted their pain after seeing the bodies of their kin at the mortuary. (PHOTO: COURTESY)

The families of two of the three slain victims of an abduction possibly linked to a court case involving a rogue police officer recounted their pain after seeing the bodies of their kin.

Taxi driver Joseph Muiruri sister's Stela Muiruri recalled her fruitless search for her brother after he went missing on June 23, and said they had reported the matter to the police. She said her and family members were in shock after viewing the body.

"I was shocked to learn through the media that some two bodies had been found dumped in Oldonyo Sabuk River. A friend also called to inform me of the development. We came as a family to the morgue," said Ms Muiruri.

Muiruri's brother, Mr Nahashon Muiruri, said he had also telephoned the police and asked them to expedite investigations.

Nahashonsaid his brother died a painful death at just 27 years.

"My brother was doing his usual taxi business. He has met a painful death," Nahashon said.

Lawyer Willie Kimani's family was not at the mortuary to identify his body; however, the Law Society of Kenya officials positively identified their colleague.

The bodies were badly mutilated with tongues hanging loosely from the mouth. There were indications that they had been tied with a rope before the assailants executed and dumped them in the river wrapped in separate brown body bags. The bodies had visible bruises on the forehead, legs, chest and legs.

Meanwhile, the High Court has ordered that autopsies on the bodies be carried out in 24 hours.

High Court Judge Luka Kimaru issued the orders yesterday, and insisted that the procedure be done in the presence of the a Law Society of Kenya representative and a report on the same be tabled before him.

Justice Kimaru also summoned the heads of the Serious Crimes Unit and the Flying Squad, John Kariuki and Said Mohamed respectively, to appear before him to explain the progress of the investigations.