http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3728604/Cameron-s-cronies-1m-golden-goodbyes-George-Osborne-two-ministers-21-aides-line-severance-payments.html
100
10
Cronies and allies of David Cameron will receive almost £1million in golden goodbyes on top of their honours

Cronies and allies of David Cameron will receive almost £1million in golden goodbyes on top of their honours.

The ex-PM showered Downing Street staff and former ministers with peerages, knighthoods and other awards in his much-criticised resignation list.

Now it has emerged that many of them are also in line for generous severance payments.

Three ministers, including George Osborne, and 21 aides who lost their jobs after Mr Cameron stepped down will be handed more than £900,000, an analysis found.

The total was pushed higher as the former prime minister overhauled Whitehall rules to give aides six months’ pay rather than the usual four-and-a-half.

Recipients include Craig Oliver, former No 10 director of communications, who has received a knighthood, and Ed Llewellyn, the chief of staff made a peer by Mr Cameron. They will each receive £70,000.

Those who have been elevated to the Lords – including Mr Llewellyn and former aides Gabby Bertin and Liz Sugg – will be able to claim thousands in attendance allowance for the rest of their lives, on top of the severance payments.

In addition, Cabinet ministers such as the former chancellor – made a Companion of Honour – are in line for £17,000 pay-off. However, they can choose to refuse the cash.

The ex-PM showered Downing Street staff and former ministers with peerages, knighthoods and other awards in his much-criticised resignation list

News of the largesse came as aides of Theresa May revealed she would refuse to issue a lengthy resignation honours list, and instead hand out just six or seven awards.

Sources said the Prime Minister believed her predecessor’s list of 59 was ‘excessive’ and ‘an unfortunate lapse of judgment’.

A Downing Street source said: ‘Theresa supports the tradition of departing PMs being able to reward a small number of longstanding, dedicated and loyal public servants. But doling out gongs like confetti is not her style. Six or seven seems more appropriate than 59.’

Lord Bew, the chairman of the Committee on Standards in Public Life, said such lists were ‘increasingly questionable’.

Putting the ‘ludicrously long list’ down to Mr Cameron’s ‘warm’ nature, he said: ‘As an objective thing in our public life – separating out my human sympathies that are involved here – I do think it is increasingly questionable.’

Labour deputy leader Tom Watson said Mr Cameron’s reputation would suffer from lavishing honours and inflated pay on his team.

Three ministers, including George Osborne, and 21 aides who lost their jobs after Mr Cameron stepped down will be handed more than £900,000, an analysis found

‘Theresa May should act now to prevent the honours and appointments system becoming discredited,’ he told the Sunday Times.

One MP said: ‘One reason Theresa wouldn’t give as many baubles to friends as Dave is that she doesn’t have as many friends. She is very self-contained and spends most weekends at home with [her husband] Philip, not at a weekend house party in the Cotswolds.

‘She has a small team of advisers who have been with her for years, but you can count them on the fingers of one hand.’

Mr Cameron could face a grilling about his resignation honours list from the Public Administration Committee, with Labour member Paul Flynn saying it should consider calling the ex-PM to give evidence.