http://standardmedia.co.ke/article/2000209076/africa-needs-trade-partners-uhuru-says-as-he-criticises-west
100
10


Updated Tue, July 19th 2016 at 00:00 GMT +3

billions of dollars on peace-keeping missions in the Democratic Republic of Congo, Somalia and South Sudan. But after spending all these billions, what impact do they have?” Uhuru asked.

“Why don’t you just ask us how we can find solutions to these problems rather than spending billions to pay salaries to UN agencies and buying big cars?” President Kenyatta said, drawing applause from delegates attending the United Nations Conference for Trade and Development (UNCTAD).

“After all these billions (spent), there is really nothing that changes yet it would have translated to much more for our people,” said the President, who was a panellist on the second day of the conference at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre.

The UN spent about Sh850 billion last year alone on peace-keeping missions around the world, including in Somalia, South Sudan and DRC.

Under attack

The Head of State regretted that the West was now running away from globalisation (the process by which world economies are becoming interconnected) from which they had benefited.

“And the most interesting thing is that as Africa moves, we are seeing the rest of the world retreat. As Africa advances, we are seeing the rest of the world that has benefited from globalisation all these years now retreating to become more internal in their own things,” he said, adding that for globalisation to truly work, “it must work for all of us”.

That globalisation has come under attack was demonstrated recently when the United Kingdom voted to leave the European Union.

And Donald Trump, a presumptive presidential candidate for the Republican Party in the US, has also been pushing for protectionist policies as a means of saving American jobs.

During the World Trade Organisation meeting in Nairobi last year, developed countries were also accused of subsiding their farmers, thus making it hard for agricultural products from Africa, such as cotton, to get into those markets. Yesterday, the President said the same transparency demanded of Africa must be embraced by the West.

“There was an argument many years back, that the problem in implementation was lack of democracy, lack of accountability on the part of largely African countries. Over the last 15 to 20 years, this continent has changed. Democracy is deeply embedded in most of Africa. Governments are becoming more accountable and more transparent. Civil society is having a much greater and open role. Our budgets are open. And we are beginning to implement mobilisation of domestic resources,” he said.

President Kenyatta went on: “We now ask them: how do you come and partner with us? How do you join us? Let us move from excuses and blame games to negotiation.”