http://asianews.network/content/malaysian-bomb-making-expert-caught-philippines-31400
1031
10
A Malaysian bomb expert identified as Mohamas Amin has been caught by the Philippines authorities, the Bukit Aman confirmed.

Inspector-General of Police Khalid Abu Bakar confirmed that Mohamas Amin was a Malaysian national from Kelantan.

“Earlier on, a Malaysian arrested by the Philippine authorities. He is said to be a bomb-making expert.

“That is what we know so far,” he told reporters after attending the International Drug Prevention and Rehabilitation Conference at the Royal Malaysia Police College here.

Asked whether the suspect was arrested with any explosives, Bakar said that was the claim made by the Philippine authorities.

“From what we know, this Malaysian is a supporter of Muslim fighters in southern Philippines,” he said.

On October 12, Bakar said the police needed to get more information on the arrest before taking any further action, when asked to comment on Mohamas Amin’s arrest by the Philippines National Police (PNP) which thwarted planned bombing attacks in Manila.

The PNP reported that the suspect, who had a 600,000-peso ($12,394) bounty on his head, was present at a press briefing by PNP-Criminal Investigation and Detection Group (CIDG) acting director Chief Supt Roel Obusan on October 10.

Mohamas Amin was arrested at 4 am on October 8 by joint operatives from the Anti-Transnational Crimes Unit (ATCU) of the CIDG and the PNP Intelligence Group during a raid in Quezon City.

Sources said Mohamas Amin, whose real name is Ahmad Tarmizi Mohamad Sayuti, had admitted his involvement with terror groups in Basilan, Philippines, and explained that he entered the country through a contact known as Abu Khalid.

“Further investigations by the authorities revealed his knowledge and involvement in Abu Sayyaf Group.

“He gained access into Abu Sayyaf camps in Tipo-Tipo and Al-Barka (both in Basilan) through a terrorist with the nickname Abu Malik,” a source said.

It is learnt that the suspect also claimed to have met terrorists Isnilon Hapilon, Mohamad Amad, also known as Abu Doctor, Amin Baco and Qayyim, who also goes by the name Guro.

“In August, the suspect in a group of 40 militants, including the four terrorists, left an Abu Sayyaf encampment in Kawilan Hill and went through the jungle for two days before arriving at a new camp in Brgy Mahatalang, Sumisip in Basilan.

“In September, the suspect went to Samal Village in Maluso to arrange safe passage back to Malaysia before being caught by the Philippine authorities,” another source said, adding that the suspect never revealed his true motive in joining the Abu Sayyaf group.

Also arrested during the raid were Bilal Taalam, the owner of the house where Mohamas Amin was staying, and Adnan Malangkis. Eight other tenants in the house are also being investigated.

CIDG believes that all three have links to the Abu Sayyaf group in Sulu. A fragmentation grenade, several rounds of ammunition, various identification cards, a blueprint of a condo mall in Quezon City and a cellular phone were recovered.

The Philippine Daily Inquirer also quoted Chief Supt Obusan as saying that the results of the police interrogation further strengthened their belief about Mohamas Amin’s plot to stage bomb attacks in Manila.

“Our operatives confiscated a blueprint of a building, a condo mall, indicating they were studying the area,” Chief Supt Obusan said, declining to name the mall to avoid panic.

Mohamas Amin, who also goes by the names Asman, Akman Amin and Amin Aklam, is a bomb expert and is the subject of an arrest warrant for a murder case filed at the Regional Trial Court in Jolo, Sulu.

Other Abu Sayyaf members are also facing the same charges in the same court.

Mohamas Amin and Malangkis were subjected to inquest proceedings for violations of the Comprehensive Firearms and Ammunition Regula­tion Act and Illegal Possession of Explosives Act before the Quezon City Regional Trial Court.

Mohamas Amin will also be charged with violation of Article 78 of the Revised Penal Code for concealing his true identity while Taalam was charged with obstruction of justice and harbouring a fugitive or wanted person.