http://www.politico.eu/article/marine-le-pen-and-the-trump-supporting-us-congressman-steve-king/
26
2
Marine Le Pen is looking to burnish her international profile as part of a bid to become French president in 2017 | Thomas Samson/AFP via Getty Images Marine Le Pen and the Trump-supporting US congressman National Front leader pictured with Republican Steve King.

PARIS — Marine Le Pen, head of France’s National Front, met with Republican congressman Steve King in her first public encounter with a U.S. elected official, a tweet sent Monday from her official account showed.

Le Pen, who is looking to burnish her international profile as part of a bid to become French president in 2017, tweeted a photograph of her standing next to the Iowa congressman at an undisclosed location. The tweet offered no further details about the encounter but said the pair had “very interesting exchanges with @SteveKingIA … about France, the European Union and international affairs.”

Marine Le Pen’s parliamentary adviser and MEP Nicolas Bay did not immediately respond to a request for comment. The party’s press assistant said he was not aware of the meeting having taken place.

The meeting is a sign of a possible rapprochement between Le Pen and the camp of Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump. Le Pen has opposed Hillary Clinton’s campaign in public comments, but stopped short of expressing clear support for her Republican opponent.

Échanges très intéressants avec @SteveKingIA, membre du Congrès américain, au sujet de la France, de l'UE et des affaires internationales. pic.twitter.com/sQMEAqL8Y9 — Marine Le Pen (@MLP_officiel) October 3, 2016

King has also expressed support for Trump although he has stopped short of a “full-throated” endorsement, saying he wanted to wait until he could meet the real estate mogul in person before giving him formal backing.

Le Pen has fought back against allegations that her anti-EU, anti-immigration party is too closely aligned with Moscow following its acceptance in 2014 of a €9 million loan from a Russian-backed bank in the Czech Republic.

Last year, her adviser at the European Parliament, Ludovic Dedanne, tried to organize a meeting with Trump and a delegation from the Europe of Nations and Freedom group in the European Parliament, to which the National Front belongs. Trump changed his plans and the meeting did not take place.

Supporters of Le Pen insist that a meeting is still possible.

While in Europe, King posed for another photograph with Frauke Petry, head of Germany’s far-right Alternative for Germany; and Geert Wilders, head of the Dutch Freedom Party. King commented on the photograph, which was dated September 18: “Wishing you a successful vote. Cultural suicide by demographic transformation must end.”

@FraukePetry Wishing you successful vote. Cultural suicide by demographic transformation must end. @geertwilderspvv pic.twitter.com/Kp6uieaMDG — Steve King (@SteveKingIA) September 18, 2016

In July, King was mired in controversy when he asked on MSNBC what “sub-groups” had contributed more to civilization than Western Europe. The conversation was about the largely white make-up of the crowd at the Republican Convention in Cleveland.

“This whole white people business does get a little tired,” he said. “I’d ask you to go back through history and figure out what are these contributions that have been made by these other categories of people that you’re talking about.”

A representative for King did not immediately respond to a request for comment.