http://www.freemalaysiatoday.com/category/nation/2016/07/13/quit-if-no-action-against-protest-leaders-dap-tells-igp/
100
10
Segambut MP Lim Lip Eng demands explanation from IGP and Umno Youth Chief over demonstration by Red Shirts group outside DAP headquarters yesterday.

VIDEO INSIDE

KUALA LUMPUR:The Inspector-General of Police (IGP) Khalid Abu Bakar must step down if no action is taken against the Umno “hooligans” who protested outside the DAP headquarters here yesterday.

DAP MP Lim Lip Eng, in a statement, demanded stern action from the police following the Red Shirts protest yesterday.

“A woman was charged for releasing a yellow balloon in Putrajaya. What is a balloon compared with the ‘hell notes’ that were thrown at us yesterday?

“If no action is taken against these hooligans, I urge Khalid to step down as IGP for failing to do his duty.

“Is this the level of tolerance that the police allow for demonstrations now?” the Segambut MP said, after lodging a police report against the Red Shirts group at the Wangsa Maju Police headquarters today.

DAP Youth’s Shakir Ameer, who was also present, claimed that Umno Youth leaders and members were also part of the protest yesterday and demanded an explanation from Umno Youth chief Khairy Jamaluddin.

“If you want to protest, it’s fine. If you want to have demonstrations, fine. All of us do it.

“But don’t behave like a bunch of hooligans. I want an explanation from Khairy. Does he tolerate such hooliganism from Umno Youth?” Shakir said.

DAP national organising secretary Anthony Loke shared Shakir’s sentiments, adding that failure to charge the “hooligans” who had previously threatened to burn the DAP headquarters, had made them braver.

“Furthermore, the demonstration yesterday was against the law. It is clearly against the Peaceful Assembly Act.

“Is any action going to be taken against them? We urge the police to act swiftly and take action against the individuals who were involved in the threats and provocations during the demonstration,” Loke said.

Yesterday, some 200 protesters gathered in front of DAP’s headquarters, believed to be angered by a Facebook post allegedly made by DAP’s Nga Kor Ming.

Meanwhile, Federal Territories Umno Youth head Mohd Razlan Muhammad Rafii, who was among the Red Shirts group outside the DAP headquarters yesterday, said that the protest was a success as they managed to convey their feelings through a memorandum.

“We showed that we are united and will continue to protest. Do not play around with us,” he told reporters.

The protesters started by marching for one kilometer from the Cheras Umno office while singing “Perajurit Tanah Air”, a popular military song.