http://www.business-standard.com/article/pti-stories/bihar-assembly-adjourned-sine-die-on-stormy-note-116080401305_1.html
100
10
Bihar Assembly adjourned sine die on stormy note

The monsoon session of Bihar Legislative Assembly came to an end today on a stormy note with Opposition MLAs creating ruckus over the police lathicharge on Dalit students here yesterday. Speaker Vijay Kumar Chaudhary adjourned the House sine die bringing the curtains down on the five-day Monsoon Session. On the last day today, Opposition members trooped in to the Well demanding action against police officers for lathicharge on Dalit students during a protest yesterday. Chaudhary asked Opposition to allow him to take up private resolutions of the members but adjourned the House sine die as his pleas went unheard. During the brief Monsoon session, the Assembly passed 13 legislations. They include the Bihar Excise and Prohibition Bill, 2016, prescribing stringent punishment for all adult family members if liquor was found from a household. The House also passed the first supplementary demand of the state government for grant of Rs 16,859.98 crore to meet pressing expenditure under .

The monsoon session of Legislative Assembly came to an end today on a stormy note with Opposition MLAs creating ruckus over the police lathicharge on Dalit students here yesterday.



Speaker Chaudhary adjourned the House sine die bringing the curtains down on the five-day Monsoon Session.



On the last day today, Opposition members trooped in to the Well demanding action against police officers for lathicharge on Dalit students during a protest yesterday.



Chaudhary asked Opposition to allow him to take up private resolutions of the members but adjourned the House sine die as his pleas went unheard.



During the brief Monsoon session, the Assembly passed 13 legislations.



They include the Excise and Prohibition Bill, 2016, prescribing stringent punishment for all adult family members if liquor was found from a household.



The House also passed the first supplementary demand of the state government for grant of Rs 16,859.98 crore to meet pressing expenditure under plan and non-plan heads, besides to meet the state's contribution for implementation of Centrally- Sponsored Schemes (CSS) in Bihar.



The Assembly took up 584 questions, out of which 59 were answered and the reply of 94 others were laid in the House.

(REOPENS CES10)



The Legislative Council was also adjourned sine die today with the passage of the first supplementary demand for grant, the Appropriation (No.3) Bill and 12 other Bills.



During the brief session, the Council passed 13 legislations including the Excise and Prohibition Bill, 2016 and the first supplementary demand of the state government for a grant of Rs 16,859.98 crore.



This was 183rd session of the Legislative Council.

Press Trust of India