http://m.philstar.com/414576/show/a0d0c368ea9f481a98692c07623bb497?t=81u2tinapcqgctno18iqq9s942
100
10
6 more drug suspects killed

MANILA, Philippines – Six more drug suspects, including a public school teacher, were killed in Luzon and the Visayas in the past two days.

Rodel Don Legaspi of the Mariquet-Manalpac Elementary School in Solana, Ilocos Norte was driving his tricycle when motorcycle-riding men fired at him in Barangay San Juan, said Chief Inspector Dexter Corpuz, Ilocos Norte police spokesman.

Legaspi died while being treated at the Dingras District Hospital.

Corpuz said Legaspi was ranked 14th on the drug watchlist of Solana.

In Ilocos Sur, unidentified men gunned down Fernando Garringo in Barangay Calimugtong in Galimuyod town at noon yesterday. He was among the top drug suspects in Candon City.

In Bulacan, Dennis Flores, alias Wacky, a resident of Barangay Sta. Monica in Hagonoy town, and a certain James of Barangay San Juan in Balagtas were killed in an alleged shootout with police on Tuesday.

The body of an unidentified man was found in Barangay Caduang Tete in Apalit, Pampanga on Monday. The body bore a placard that read: “Ako’y pusher, huwag tularan (I am a pusher, don’t emulate).”

In Negros Occidental, Joebert Apurado, 34, was killed in an an alleged shootout with police in Calatrava town.

Superintendent Gil Flores, Calatrava police chief, said Apurado was ranked fifth on the town’s drug watchlist.

Flores said a .38-caliber revolver, five mobile phones, a sachet of shabu and P630 in cash were recovered from the suspect.

Meanwhile, at least 19 Calabarzon (Cavite, Laguna, Batangas, Rizal, Quezon) policemen have been relieved from their posts for their alleged involvement in the illegal drug trade.

The police officers have been ordered to submit themselves to an investigation, Chief Superintendent Valfrie Tabian, Calabarzon police director, told The STAR yesterday.

Tabian refused to identify the policemen with ranks ranging from Police Officer 1 to Superintendent.

He said among those sacked were a senior inspector who was arrested in a sting in Cavite and eight police officers who tested positive for drug use.

In Pangasinan, San Carlos City Vice Mayor Julier Resuello underwent drug tests in three separate government agencies to prove that he was not a drug user.

“I know that I’m negative of drugs but I just wanted to prove my detractors wrong as they have been consistently dragging my name,” Resuello said.

Resuello tested negative for drug use at the regional offices of the National Bureau of Investigation, Department of Health and the Philippine National Police Crime Laboratory in La Union.

In Nueva Vizcaya, former municipal councilor Stephen Dulay and his companion Fred Ascado were arrested during a sting in Barangay Don Mariano Perez in Bayombong town.

The two men were collared after handing over a sachet of shabu to an undercover agent, said Superintendent Cevalier Iringan, Cagayan Valley police spokesman.

In Daet, Camarines Norte, three persons, including two women, were arrested during a sting in Barangay 5 on Monday. They reportedly yielded three sachets of shabu, drug paraphernalia and P500 in cash.

Four members of a family in Himamaylan, Negros Occidental were arrested on Monday.

Robie Gleen Resuma and his brother Jose Rodrigo, who were ranked sixth and 10th on the drug watchlist, respectively, were collared along with Resuma’s wife Jesus Jinkee in Barangay Aguisan at around 11:20 a.m.

Resuma’s uncle Glegen Resuma was later collared at a police checkpoint.

Superintendent Antonietto Cañete, Himamaylan police chief, said the suspects yielded 53.3 grams of shabu with an estimated street value of P533,000. – Ric Sapnu, Ed Amoroso, Raymund Catindig, Eva Visperas, Francis Elevado, Gilbert Bayoran