http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/grim-sleeper-serial-killer-given-8128126
100
10
Lonnie David Franklin Jr has been sentenced to death for the murders of 10 women over two decades

A serial killer dubbed the “Grim Sleeper” by police has been sentenced to death after being convicted of killing 10 women over two decades.

Jurors in Los Angeles today said Lonnie Franklin Jr guilty should die for his crimes after he was convicted last month following an eight week-long trial.

During the penalty phase of the trial, where the jury considers what punishment he should receive, prosecutors connected Franklin to an additional five killings .

LA’s district attorney’s office however decided not to charge the former caretaker with those crimes as he was already facing the death penalty and prosecutors did not want to further delay a trial that had already been postponed many years.

When police raided Franklin’s home they found over 1,000 photos of women and several hundred hours of video leaving investigators with the fear he may killed up to 180 victims.

Reuters Lonnie David Franklin Jr was convicted following an eight week trial

He targeted vulnerable young black women over 20 years in the inner city of Los Angeles.

Former caretaker Franklin was arrested in 2010 after a DNA search of an inmate database led to a partial match for his son.

Los Angeles Police Department's special task force then followed the elder Franklin to a restaurant and watched as he threw out his rubbish which contained a discarded slice of pizza.

Read more: 'Grim Sleeper' serial killer who killed 10 women over 22 years could face death sentence

On it they found his DNA which proved a match to the killer.

In her closing argument to the jury, Deputy District Attorney Beth Silverman gave recounted in details each of each victim’s final moments.

Getty Photographs of 180 women that were seized from the home of Lonnie David Franklin Jr

Franklin sat underneath a projector that displayed pictures of his victims’ battered and bloody bodies, never looked up.

“They were so vicious, they were so calculated, and they were so demeaning,” Silverman said. “The way that these women ended up, half of them naked … all of them in filthy alleys.”

Read more: 'Grim Sleeper' serial killer trial begins - 30 years after first victim was found

His defence pleaded for clemency which was rejected.

His execution could take up to 10 years before all appeals are exhausted.