http://www.4-traders.com/CHINA-STRATEGIC-HOLDINGS-6165749/news/China-Strategic-Kerry-urges-China-to-obey-maritime-laws-as-bilateral-talks-kick-off-22475689/
100
10
Beijing , June 6 (EFE).- The eighth session of the U.S. - China Strategic and Economic Dialogue kicked off on Monday in Beijing , with the world's two largest economies hoping to reconcile their geopolitical disagreements and negotiate mutually beneficial investment deals in the two-day talks.

Chinese Councilor Yang Jiechi and Vice Premier Wang Yang will meet today with the American Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew and U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry , who warned Beijing at a news conference days earlier that the Chinese establishment of an air defense zone over the South China Sea would be a "provocative and destabilizing act".

China had last month insisted on its rights to set up an Air Defense Identification Zone (ADIZ) extending up to 482 kilometers beyond its territorial seas based on a 1947 map of the disputed, resource-rich South China Sea islands, according to China's official news agency Xinhua .

A verdict by the Permanent Arbitration court in The Hague , on the appeal launched by the Philippines to thwart China's growing domination over the archipelago, is also expected to darken the Sino-American dialogue.

Chinese President Xi Jinping said in his opening speech that differences between the two countries are "natural", and Washington should "avoid using the differences as an excuse for confrontation", referring to U.S. military redeployment in many of the six countries embroiled in the maritime spat.

Kerry has also expressed wishes for a consensus to pave the way for pending bilateral economic deals valued at some $30 billion - more than twice the $15 billion invested by Chinese companies in the North American nation last year.

"The only position we have taken is not to sort this out through unilateral actions, but resolve it through the rule of law, diplomacy, negotiation," insisted Kerry.

According to the U.S. Council on Foreign Relations , if the vital trade routes through the South China Sea and East China Sea are not managed wisely, multilateral conflicts are likely to erupt into battlefields that will mar economic gains.

"It's up to us to ensure that America and China are more partners than rivals," the U.S. Secretary of State tweeted today. EFE

dm/uw