http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Archbishop-of-Jakarta:-We-are-opposed-to-the-death-penalty,-we-pray-for-the-condemned-38159.html
1053
10


» 07/28/2016, 11.44



INDONESIA Archbishop of Jakarta: We are opposed to the death penalty, we pray for the condemned Mathias Hariyadi



The government is preparing the execution of 14 prisoners of different nationalities within three days. They are all accused of drug dealing or drug possession. Msgr. Suharyo asks the faithful for special prayers "so that capital punishment is removed from our legal system." The European Union demand the suspension of executions. India and Pakistan appeal to save the lives of their citizens. Jakarta (AsiaNews) – "I encourage all Catholics in the diocese to recite a special prayer, with the hope that one day a moratorium on the death penalty is approved and it is abolished from our legal system", is the call to all the faithful by Msgr. Ignatius Suharyo, archbishop of Jakarta, after the news that by the end of the week 14 death row inmates will be executed in Indonesia. In a message posted on social media, the Archbishop, "personally concerned by this issue," asked all the priests of his archdiocese to "spread the Catholic Church teaching on this subject, and at the same time pray for those who are close to death. " Those condemned to death were locked in solitary confinement for two days in the prison of Nusakambangan, Cilacap (Central Java) and by 31 July will be executed by firing squads. Attorney General M. Prasetyo confirmed that the executions will be carried out. The prisoners, all accused of drug dealing or drug possession, come from Indonesia, Nigeria, Zimbabwe, Pakistan, India, and China. Today the authorities have handed over 14 coffins to the prison staff. Msgr. Suharyo criticized the great media exposure to the executions. The Archbishop then quoted the encyclical Evangelium Vitae of St. John Paul II (1995): "Based on Catholic teachings, we consider legitimate the death penalty when the criminal works are extremely serious, but the judges should be advised to prefer other options if possible, to protect the dignity of the human person”. For some time the Church in Indonesia, together with the Commission of Justice and Peace, have been strongly opposed to executions planned by the Jakarta government. The Commission has created a team of 11 lawyers who work pro bono for the innocent people who are mistaken for drug traffickers. In recent days the inclusion of Merri Utami on the list of 14 convicted has made headlines. The Indonesian migrant worker, was punished with the death penalty in 2003 for possession of a kilo of heroin. Yesterday a group of peopledemonstrated in front of the government building demanding her release: in fact, the woman is the victim of a scam devised by the traffickers, who planted the drugs on her without her knowledge. The case is very similar to that of Mary Jane Veloso, a Filipino woman also on death row (but not included in this round of executions). Jakarta has been criticized by the international community over its use of the death penalty. The European Union has asked the government to suspend the killings. Today, the Indian Foreign Minister addressed a final appeal to the Indonesian government to save the life of a 48 year old accused of drug dealing. Even Pakistan has stepped up diplomatic efforts to obtain the suspension of the sentence for its own citizens. Indonesia has one of the strictest anti-drug laws in the world, to fight what President Joko Widodo has called "a national emergency." From 1979 to 2015,66 executions have been carried out. e-mail this to a friend Printable version







e-mail this to a friend : Archbishop of Jakarta: We are opposed to the death penalty, we pray for the condemned South East Asia Indonesia

The government is preparing the execution of 14 prisoners of different nationalities within three days. They are all accused of drug dealing or drug possession. Msgr. Suharyo asks the faithful for special prayers "so that capital punishment is removed from our legal system." The European Union demand the suspension of executions. India and Pakistan appeal to save the lives of their citizens.



: : (*) : : (*) : (*)



: (*)



































See also

11/04/2016 13:27:00 INDONESIA

Jakarta: government set to execute 40 drug traffickers

The list of inmates on death row includes major figures in drug trafficking, Indonesia’s number one emergency. The date and place of the execution have not yet been decided. Chinese and French prisoners are on the list. Army officer caught at a drug-based party.



12/05/2016 14:18:00 INDONESIA

Jakarta: firing squads ready for 15 drug traffickers

No official date has been set, but death row inmates, five Indonesians and 10 foreigners, will be executed "in mid-May”. Mary Jane Veloso, a 30-year-old Filipina maid sentenced to death, was spared because her case is being prepared in the Philippines.



19/09/2006 INDONESIA

Execution of "Tibo and friends" fixed for 21 September

After several postponements, the authorities have set the execution date of the three Indonesian Catholics. This was confirmed today by their defence team. Rumour has it that large protest rallies will be held in Palu and Poso: police have stepped up security measures.



12/09/2016 12:48:00 INDONESIA - PHILIPPINES

Duterte: No problem if Jakarta decides to execute Mary Jane Veloso

The Philippine president, on a diplomatic visit to Indonesia, had a private meeting with Widodo on the possible the condemnation of the Filipino woman. Veloso is in jail on charges of drug dealing, but her execution was postponed several times due to the efforts of former President Aquino and criticism of the Catholic Church.



29/07/2016 09:41:00 INDONESIA

Jakarta carries out four death sentences overnight

Despite criticism from Church and world leaders, Jakarta carries out death sentences. An Indonesian, two Nigerians and a South African are killed. For now 10 prisoners saved, but they are due to be killed before 31 July. Former president Habibie writes to Joko Widodo calling for a moratorium on the death penalty.







