http://www.asianews.network/content/thais-offer-prayers-king-28710
100
10
The health condition of His Majesty the King is still unstable, with falling blood pressure, rapid pulse and higher acidosis, the 38th statement from the Royal Household Bureau said as of press time last night.

Blood tests have indicated blood infection and abnormal liver function.

Doctors have prescribed antibiotics and medication for acidosis and blood pressure. The King has been put on a ventilator and is undergoing Continuous Renal Replacement Therapy. Medical teams are closely monitoring the King's condition, the statement said.

Hundreds of well-wishers, dressed in yellow or pink, thronged the Siriraj Hospital, yesterday, to pray and express hope for the King's speedy recovery.

His Majesty King Bhumibol Adulyadej, 88, has been receiving treatment at this hospital for several years. As the world's longest-reigning monarch, who was enthroned in 1946, the King commands enormous love and respect from the people.

Most members of the Royal Family, including His Royal Highness Crown Prince Maha Vajiralongkorn, visited the monarch yesterday. Several loyal subjects also gathered to pay their respects at the monument of the King's father, Prince Mahidol of Songkhla, in the hospital compound and recited a Buddhist prayer for the King's good health.

Some people vowed to spend the night at the hospital to pray for the speedy recovery of their beloved King, while some who chose to go home saying that they would return to the hospital again today.

Phufah Arthornprachachit, who travelled from Chiang Rai Province, said she left home immediately after learning about it on social media.

"I will stay here to send him best wishes and lend moral support," she said tearfully.

Earlier, Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha had cut short his scheduled trip to Chon Buri and returned to Bangkok, with reports initially indicating that he would make a public statement.

Government spokesman Lt-General Sansern Kaewkamnerd denied the premier would make an urgent statement later yesterday as was widely speculated on social media.

The prime minister returned to Bangkok to prepare a report for the Crown Prince, he said, adding that the prime minister would have to report the current situation to the Crown Prince if he were granted an audience.

"People should not panic or believe rumours circulating on social media," Kaewkamnerd said.