http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/694259/Five-year-warning-european-union-eu-Frauke-Petry-alternative-for-germany
1053
10
GETTY Frauke Petry has said a deadline must be implemented for the EU project

Ms Petry said Britain’s historic decision to leave the EU last month should be an inspiration for other countries across the continent - with an increasing number of people in Germany now favouring their own exit. She said: “I think we must finally set a deadline for the EU or all EU governments: if we don’t achieve any radical reforms in five years, then the question will also be raised in Germany.” Ms Petry’s party has reached a polling high of 15 per cent in recent months, showing a growing demand for Eurosceptic and anti-immigration politics in the country.

The 41-year-old said Germany was “waking up” - and also predicted in-out referendums being held in the near future in the Netherlands, Denmark and Austria. She said many now want a “return to the status of a common market, a Europe of sovereign states.”

GETTY Frauke Petry is pushing for an EU referendum for Germany and a block on refugees

Ms Petry said the slaughter of a 85-year-old priest in Normandy this week, as well as four attacks in Germany over the past ten days, clearly showed the need for greater immigration controls. She told the Financial Times: “The victims don’t care whether the perpetrator is a jihadi or a frustrated rampager. What more has to happen before we begin to check who comes into our country?” She said a complete ban of refugees was necessary to secure the safety of the country’s - and even advocated the use of armed force by border guards.

GETTY Angela Merkel's open-door immigration policy has come under heavy criticism

Brexit aftershocks: Who's next to leave the EU? Wed, September 14, 2016 Britain has voted to leave the EU. So who's next? We look at which European countries want to hold their own EU referendum. Play slideshow Express 1 of 10 Frexit, Nexit or Auxit? Who will be next to leave the EU

Ms Petry said: “We simply demand the application of the valid law at the border. Whoever damages the borders with violence must be shown the consequences by the border guards.” She added guards should be permitted to “use firearms if necessary.”

GETTY Germany has been targeted in a number of terror attacks over the last week