http://www.asianews.network/content/yangon-mps-discuss-motorcycle-legalisation-29879
1014
10
“There should be legalisation to use motorcycles in suburban areas. I believe it’s the best of both worlds for the state to earn revenue through taxes as well as facilitating transport for residents. People use motorcycles for everything, including taking their children to school. They reduce transport costs for them. While there will definitely be negative side effects, I believe the good outweighs the bad,” said MP Yan Aung Min from Shwepyithar.

Nilar Kyaw, Yangon Region’s minister for electricity, industry and transport, agreed that suburban residents were liberally using motorcycles as their favoured mode of transport.

She said that places such as Shwepyithar, Hlaingthayar and Dagon, where motorcyclists are abundant regulations were being reviewed by experts.

She said it might be some time before motorcycles were approved again as the government must plan numerous factors, such as safety, road and traffic rules for motorcyclists.

“Looking at places like the west, Yangon Maritime University or the port, it’s clear that they definitely need motorcycles. A certain amount of time is needed because things need to be set up smoothly and systematically,” said Nilar Kyaw.

MP Than Naing Oo claimed that central Yangon, especially Chinatown in Latha Township, had been overrun with illegal immigrants, especially from China.

He claimed that there were many foreign and unregistered workers working on luxury housing projects or in shops that had appeared in abundance.

He called on Yangon City Development Council to visit.

“At the Vietnamese-built shopping malls, hotels and motels in Pabedan, Sanchaung and even on Pyay Road, it’s important to know the visa details of people who are being paid salaries many times higher than our citizens. In places such as Junction Square, there are so many Chinese out drinking at night, none with proper documents. As far as I know, they don’t pay taxes either.

"Most of them come through the borders such as Shwe Li. There are so many Chinese in Mandalay right now as well. They need to be investigated and regulated,” the regional MP said.