http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2016/08/31/angus-robertson-snp-could-drop-support-for-independent-scotland/
100
10
The SNP’s Westminster leader has said he is “open” to dropping support for an independent Scotland keeping the pound as he attempted to woo party members in the battle to become Nicola Sturgeon’s deputy.

Angus Robertson, the Moray MP, refused to rule out the creation of a Scottish pound and said the party will go through a process of internal debate to decide on the best option.

His three opponents in the contest to become the SNP’s depute leader also signalled their willingness to consider other currencies, with MEP Alyn Smith arguing that even the euro should be on the table.

The interventions, during a head-to-head TV debate, came after a Nobel prize-winning economist who advises Ms Sturgeon said it may have been a “mistake” for the nationalist campaign to back a currency union with the rest of the UK during the 2014 referendum campaign.

Professor Joseph Stiglitz who sits on the First Minister’s Council of Economic Advisers, also warned Ms Sturgeon she should also have “strong second thoughts” about Scotland leaving the UK and joining the EU if that means adopting the euro.

Ms Sturgeon will host an SNP away-day in Stirling on Friday at which she is expected to launch another “national conversation” on independence.

She has said it is “highly likely” there will be another independence referendum following the Brexit vote. Owen Smith, who is challenging Jeremy Corbyn for the Labour leadership, yesterday said he would not oppose a rerun.

Mr Robertson spearheaded the SNP’s 2014 campaign and is viewed as the “establishment” candidate for the party’s deputy leadership, a post that was vacated when Stewart Hosie MP resigned in disgrace following a sex scandal.

Speaking on STV’s Scotland Tonight programme, he said: “I am open to the prospect of a Scottish pound. We cannot rule out other options and that's why we have to go through a process which involves internal debate, internal discussion and an agreement across the party."

Tommy Sheppard, the Edinburgh East MP, said the Brexit vote has thrown "somewhat of a big question mark" over whether a currency union would be possible if Scotland became independent and an EU member state. He said he was open to all possible currency arrangements.