http://www.express.co.uk/news/politics/684783/Labour-MPs-death-threats-refusal-back-Corbyn
1044
10
PH * GETTY Vicki Foxcroft has received an anonymous death threat over the revolt

Mr Corbyn is facing a revolt as 63 Labour MPs have resigned from the shadow cabinet and have urged him to stand down. However, the veteran leader who won the leadership bid last year by a huge mandate, still has strong support from the members of the Labour Party at grassroots level. Labour whip Vicky Foxcroft claimed that she received a call to her constituency office which said: “If you don’t support Corbyn I will come down to the office and kick the f*** out of you.”

GETTY The veteran leader received a huge mandate of support for the role as leader last year

It doesn’t take that much for people to feel like they should take things into their own hands Vicky Foxcroft

Police were forced to go to her office and try to trace the call after the anonymous caller said that he was on the way to her office before he hung up. Miss Foxcroft, who is the member for Lewisham Deptford, said: “As an MP, your skin gets pretty thick, pretty quickly. But when John McDonnell calls on Momentum activists to campaign against their MPs, it doesn’t take that much for people to feel like they should take things into their own hands. “

Howard Jones/WENN Mr Corbyn still has plenty of support at the grassroot level of the party

Who could be the next Labour leader? Thu, July 21, 2016 Could Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn resign from his post? We take a look through the strongest contenders to become the next Labour leader. Play slideshow Getty 1 of 12 Who could be the next Labour leader?

"My staff work hard to provide support for hundreds of my constituents. They don’t need this level of abuse and threatening behaviour. Understandably, it has been quite a worrying time for them in recent weeks. I sincerely hope this is the last of the aggression they will have to receive.” Mr Corbyn's ally, John McDonnell, initially encouraged activists to protests MPs, but later told activists not to protest outside Labour constituency offices. Former shadow education secretary Lucy Powell received a message telling her to kill herself after she announced she would step down because of Mr Corbyn’s lack of leadership skills.

GETTY There is speculation that if Mr Corbyn does not stand down, the Labour Party could be split