http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/rjd-suspends-mla-accused-of-rape/article8238678.ece
100
10
Bihar’s ruling Rashtriya Janata Dal on Sunday suspended party legislator Rajballabh Yadav who has been accused of raping a minor girl. The MLA has been absconding after an arrest warrant was issued against him on Saturday.

Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, addressing leaders of his party’s State executive, said “action would be taken against whoever takes the law into his own hands.”Ram Chandra Purve, RJD State president, told The Hindu that the party had taken the rape charge against its MLA Rajballabh Yadav very seriously. “In my capacity as the State party chief, I have suspended him from the party.” Deputy Chief Minister Tejaswi Yadav said the guilty would not be spared.

On Sunday, a joint team of the Nalanda and Nawada police conducted raids at several places to arrest the absconding MLA. The team faced opposition from the MLA’s supporters at his residence in Nawada.

A tenth standard student belonging to Nalanda district had charged that the 54-year-old MLA from Nawada raped her on February 6 at his residence and warned her against revealing this to anyone. The girl was taken to the MLA’s residence by a woman Sulekha Devi, who lived in her neighbourhood, on the pretext of attending a birthday party. The police arrested the woman, who the police said ran a sex racket. Names of several “important people” were found in her diary.

An FIR was lodged against the MLA on February 9 and the central range Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG) Shalin issued an arrest warrant after he found the allegations to be true. “Intensive raids are being carried out to nab the MLA and he will be arrested soon,” said the police official.

The MLA was accused of raping a student in a Nawada hotel earlier in 1994 too, but he was not convicted in the case.

The three-time MLA was a Minister in the previous Rabri Devi government.

A few days back, the RJD’s coalition partner JD(U) too had suspended its party MLA from Jokihat Sarfaraz Alam for allegedly misbehaving with a women passenger on the Rajdhani Express.

Besides, two BJP leaders and one of the LJP were gunned down in different parts of the State in the last ten days.

MLA has been absconding after an arrest warrant was issued against him on Saturday