http://www.independent.com.mt/articles/2016-02-15/local-news/Government-Opposition-fail-to-set-date-for-judicial-reform-debate-will-try-to-seek-consensus-6736153370
100
10
Government has tabled its own bill regarding Judicial appointments tonight in Parliament for the first reading, while the Opposition presented their Private Member's Bill.

Earlier this evening, Justice Minister Owen Bonnici said that the debate on Simon Busuttil’s Private Member’s Bill on the appointment of members of the judiciary should be postponed and both sides should discuss a wider-ranging government Bill which was presented tonight.

Speaking at a meeting of the House Business Committee, Dr Bonnici said the government Bill did not just cover the appointment of judges and magistrates but also a reform of the Commission for the Administration of Justice and work conditions of the judiciary. He also said the government held some reservations on Dr Busuttil’s Bill. One of these was the proposal to include government and opposition representatives on the Committee that would appoint judges and magistrates.

He said many of the Bonello Commission’s proposals had been ignored by the PN. The Bonello Commission had, in fact, proposed a seat for a representative of the public, not the political parties. Dr Bonnici said he was willing to meet with the Opposition to discuss the government Bill, in hopes that there would be consensus.

PN Deputy Leader Mario de Marco noted that there was consensus on the need to reform the system of appointment of members of the judiciary. The three points covered by the government bill were not necessarily linked and did not have to be implemented simultaneously.

Parliamentary Secretary Deborah Schembri said the bill was in the government’s electoral programme and it had a mandate to usher in the reforms.

Dr de Marco said the discussion on the appointment of the judiciary should start right away and postponing the private member’s bill would hold off this discussion.

PN Whip David Agius said the government had, so far, not even presented its Bill. “The only thing we have before us is this private member’s bill and we should start debating it.” He said that the Opposition would use all available remedies if the government did not give it a date for the debate before the end of the month.

Dr Bonnici said the House Business Committee would meet again on 29 February but Mr Agius said it would be too late.

Dr Bonnici said he was not saying that the PN Bill should be postponed indefinitely. “All I am asking is for you to wait until the 29th to see if there is agreement on the main principles (of the government Bill) and if we can come up with something in common. If we do that we would be giving the country a better and more complete reform.” He also asked if the judiciary had been consulted and warned against unnecessary haste.

David Agius insisted that the PN wanted a reply within the next few days.

The committee will meet again on Tuesday next week.

Debate should be held without further delay - PN

In a statement the PN welcomed the fact that the first reading of the private member’s bill was approved this evening but insisted that the debate should be held without delay.

It said that if the government would remain hard headed and refuse to hold the debate, the Opposition was willing to use its parliamentary time to hold the debate anyway.

It also reiterated that no other judicial appointments should be made until after a reform is passed. This was more important after the latest developments in the case of Dr Caroline Farrugia Frendo.