http://blogs.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/toi-editorials/how-to-speak-with-many-tongues-politicos-show-stable-identity-is-for-suckers-it-pays-to-be-footloose-%F0%9F%98%9C/
20
2
According to Nobel laureate and wise man Amartya Sen, we have a plurality of identities. Gurgaon’s residents can certainly sympathise with that idea, as they woke up one morning and found their hometown had changed to Gurugram. And pray, how does one say that? Are they now Gurugram-ites or Gurugrammers? Tough to catch up on the grammar of that one.

Not to mention that it lacks the cool factor of Gurgaon. Try saying ‘Gurugram’ and ‘Millennium City’ in the same breath, and you might be diagnosed as bipolar.

But someone who doesn’t mind being dehati these days is Rahul Gandhi. A former prime minister of the country, HD Deve Gowda, used to characterise himself as a ‘humble farmer’ till his policies were described – with only an apparent slip of the tongue – as those of a ‘fumble harmer’. But humble farmers remain in currency and the Congress scion is wooing them assiduously these days, promising them that the road to paradise is paved with loan waivers.

For good measure, he’s throwing in cots to sweeten the deal. So the Congress yuvraj is rolling up his sleeves and embarking on a kisan yatra through the heartlands of UP. Prime Minister Narendra Modi never takes a selfie with a farmer, Rahul says – so he will now beat Modi to it, even as he dons the khadi and owns the unshaven look.

Politicos will certainly go the extra mile to get into character. Just ask Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party convenor Arvind Kejriwal, who has been learning Punjabi to woo voters in the run-up to the Punjab assembly polls next year.

While AAP might be seriously eyeing Punjab as its next political base, Delhi fears its own identity being diluted in the process. Gurugram’s identity crisis will be nothing compared to Delhi’s and Punjab’s – if both of them get the same chief minister. From identity crisis it may even grow into a full-blown constitutional crisis.

Then there’s Bihar’s own Nitish Kumar. Nitish had his samosa and ate it too by teaming up with one-time nemesis Lalu Prasad. True, a certain Shahabuddin has tested the strength of the alliance in recent weeks, making Nitish seem bipolar in his sushasan avatar. But the Supreme Court cancelling the Siwan gangster’s bail comes as a reprieve to Nitish, even as the Patna high court strictures his other favourite idea: prohibition.

For Biharis dying for their favourite tipple Nitish even had a word of counsel: take a glass of juice, turn off the lights and imagine you’re having alcohol. Just as you could turn Shahabuddin loose on Bihar and imagine you’re having sushasan. To paraphrase what the poet Walt Whitman once wrote, we are large, we contain multitudes.