http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/jnu-row-they-are-students-not-criminals-says-kapil-sibal-on-sedition-charges/1/596894.html
100
10
Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal today slammed the Modi government, and said that a party which believes in divisive politics and fake encounters should not lecture on Nationalism.

Sibal also questioned the interpretation of the sedition law and demanded an explanation from BJP president Amit Shah for misleading the nation over the volatile issue.

"The law is very clear that sedition can only be applied when there is intent to overthrow the government and not by merely shouting slogans", Sibal added.

He also said that the Supreme Court has clearly defined sedition and one hopes that peopIe involved in the case will bear in mind the definition.

Sibal offered solidarity to Kanhaiya Kumar, the JNUSU president who was arrested earlier this week after a case of sedition and criminal conspiracy was registered against him for holding an event at the varsity during which anti-India slogans were alleged to have been raised.

"Instead of dealing with university students in the way they should be dealt with, they are being dealt with as criminals," he said. Also he said that the people, who come to the JNU, belong to very poor families from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh and have been sent by their families to become something.

"I hope this is asked of the PM in the Parliament what does he think of our children..Are they going to make criminals of children..why are they dealing with secessionists..He does not name Saeed Hafeez when Pakistani flags are raised in Kashmir as they are in alliance with the PDP..They will do agreements with NSCN.. what about sedition then", Sibal adds.

BJP does not buckle

The BJP however is adamant and is not willing to back away from the sedition charges slapped against JNUSU president Kanhaiya Kumar.

BJP president Amit Shah took on Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi, who had visited the JNU campus last week to show solidarity with the students, and said the Congress leader is frustrated over 2014 Lok Sabha poll defeat.

Amit Shah, in his blog post , said, "Congress is yet to come out of depression after 2014 loss. Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi is frustrated and he is so distraught that he has failed to understand what is anti-national and what not."

Also read:

Afzal Guru row: JNU sends status report to HRD Ministry