http://www.vanguardngr.com/2016/08/shiite-warning-tragedy-looms-if-anything-happens-to-zakzaky/
100
10
By Luka Binniyat

KADUNA—The Islamic Movement in Nigeria, IMN, known as Nigeria Shiite, Wednesday, warned of dire consequences should its leader, Sheikh Ibrahim Zakzaky, who has been in detention, dies or goes blind in custody.

The IMN also dismissed two lawyers, Sadau Garba and Bello Ibrahim, as impostors, saying they were having high dealings with the Department of State Services, DSS, on behalf of Zakzaky’s family and IMN.

In a statement by its spokesman, Ibrahim Musa, in Kaduna today, IMN also challenged the Federal Government to arraign its leader in court, if it had any case against him.

The statement read in part: “We demand that our leader and his wife be released unconditionally without delay. It will be a tragedy of monumental proportions should our leader go blind in detention or suffer further physical disability due to him being denied access to adequate medical attention.

“We understand those that sanctioned his detention and those detaining him want to humiliate him and make sure that he goes completely blind before he is eventually released, thereby rendering him powerless the moment he is released from unconstitutional and illegal detention.

“The health of our leader and the wife continues to deteriorate on a daily basis and those holding him in custody are playing politics with his detention and that of his wife.

“We urge the Nigerian people and the international community to intervene in this crude violation of the fundamental rights of our leader.”

… disowns lawyers, as DSS stooges

“The Islamic Movement in Nigeria, IMN, wants to make it clear that the said Sadau Garba and Bello Ibrahim can only be solicitors to the Department of State Services, DSS, with who they are in constant contact, and not that of the Movement or our revered leader.

“It is DSS that briefed the two, giving them access to their facilities, encouraging them to pose as solicitors to our revered leader and urging them to write letters begging DSS to release our leader on compassionate grounds.

“The Islamic Movement in Nigeria, therefore, makes it abundantly clear that Femi Falana (SAN) is the leader of the legal team and assisted by Festus Okoye (Esq.) and Maxwell Kyon (Esq.).”