http://www.business-standard.com/article/pti-stories/turkey-pm-accuses-russia-of-acting-as-terrorist-organisation-116021500737_1.html
100
10
Turkey PM accuses Russia of acting as 'terrorist organisation'

Turkish Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu today accused Russia of acting as a "terrorist organisation" in Syria and vowed to deliver a robust response. "If Russia continues behaving like a terrorist organisation and forcing civilians to flee, we will deliver an extremely decisive response," Davutoglu said through an official translator during a visit to Kiev. Tensions between Russia and Turkey have soared over Moscow's backing of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and Russia's intense air campaign against what it claims are "terrorist" targets in its allied Middle Eastern state. Turkey has long backed Assad's ouster and like other Western nations accuses Russia of predominantly bombing Syrian rebel groups backed by Washington and its allies instead of the self-proclaimed Islamic State. Assad's forces have most recently used Russian air support to move ever closer to the rebel stronghold of Aleppo in northern Syria. The resulting refugeee flood toward Turkey has put renewed pressure on ...

Turkish Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu today accused of acting as a "terrorist organisation" in Syria and vowed to deliver a robust response.



"If continues behaving like a terrorist organisation and forcing civilians to flee, we will deliver an extremely decisive response," Davutoglu said through an official translator during a visit to Kiev.



Tensions between and Turkey have soared over Moscow's backing of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and Russia's intense air campaign against what it claims are "terrorist" targets in its allied Middle Eastern state.



Turkey has long backed Assad's ouster and like other Western nations accuses of predominantly bombing Syrian rebel groups backed by and its allies instead of the self-proclaimed Islamic State.



Assad's forces have most recently used Russian air support to move ever closer to the rebel stronghold of Aleppo in northern Syria.



The resulting refugeee flood toward Turkey has put renewed pressure on Ankara to open its border with Syria temporarily -- a move Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has until now been unwilling to take.



Davutoglu further slammed the Syrian peace talks that were halted after only a few days this month in Geneva as "diplomatic theatre" for which "the international community will ultimately bear responsibility".

AFP