http://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-rjd-suspends-nawada-mla-over-rape-charges/story-2X1nHgKwrIgPAe9zSbsp7J.html
1014
10
The ruling Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) on Sunday suspended from the party its Nawada MLA and former minister Raj Ballabh Yadav, who has been accused of raping a minor on February 6.

Yadav was stated to be ‘on the run’ after the police launched a ‘manhunt’ for him following an FIR lodged against him at the Mahila police station of Biharsharif on February 9. A medical report has confirmed the rape of the minor, a class 10 student.

State RJD chief Ram Chandra Purve said the party had suspended Yadav after verification of reports pouring in from various sources, including the media. He attributed the delay in taking drastic action against the MLA to the absence of knowledge about the incident.

Soon after the news regarding the rape broke out on Saturday, deputy chief minister Tejashwi Prasad Yadav had said the law-enforcing machinery was acting in an impartial way and guilty would not be spared.

Deputy inspector general (central range) Shalin said intensive raids were being conducted to nab the fugitive legislator after the victim identified him as perpetrator of crime. The district police will pray for issuance of warrant of arrest against him on Monday.

The girl, who was residing in a rented house with her family at Garhpar area of Biharsharif, was allegedly taken to the legislator’s place at Pathra English locality of Bakhtiyarpur in Patna district on February 6 night by one Sulekha Devi.

Meanwhile, three separate teams of police personnel conducted raids at suspected hideouts of Yadav in Patna, Nalanda and Nawada districts. A luxury vehicle was also seized by the police from the MLA’s residence at the Anishabad police colony in Patna.

The police swung into action after the central range DIG ordered the arrest of the accused MLA after recording the statement of the victim on February 13 in Nalanda.

Reports said Sulekha, who is into flesh trade, got paid Rs 30,000 for offering the girl to the legislator. The victim was dropped back at her house a day later with a warning to keep her mouth shut.

Officials said efforts were also on to arrest Sulekha and her two accomplices. The police have, however, managed to nab a close associate of Sulekha. The MLA was also accused of raping a student in a hotel about two decades ago.

The JD(U), which is ruling the state in alliance with the RJD and the Congress, had recently suspended its Jokihat MLA Sarfaraz Alam, after a woman travelling on a Rajdhani Express train filed a case accusing him of attempting to molest and assault her last month.