http://www.india.com/news/india/wrong-to-brand-jnu-as-a-centre-of-terrorists-arvind-kejriwal-to-narendra-modi-954234/
1056
10
New Delhi, Feb 16: Amid the escalating row over the arrest of JNU students union leader in a sedition case, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal today wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying it was completely wrong to brand the varisty as a “centre of terrorists” and demanded immediate release of “innocents” arrested in the case. Kejriwal, who today also met Union Home Rajanth Singh over the issue, asked the PM to direct the police to take action against BJP MLA OP Sharma and those involved in attacking students and journalists within and outside the Patiala House court premises yesterday. Also Read: Arvind Kejriwal launches fund-raising campaign

In his letter, Kejriwal said,”It is not correct to convert nationalism into a device for creating a fear psychosis by using constitutional institutions to run them according to whims and fancies. “It is extremely dangerous that the JNU incident is being portrayed to show this institution as a terrorist centre.” Kejriwal asked the PM to break his silence on the incident. “I request you with folded hands to urgently stop this fire from spreading any further. People are waiting with desperation for you to break your silence and intervene to bring the situation under control,” he said.

He said “innocents” arrested in the JNU incident should be immediately released and real culprits identified and dealt with severely in accordance with law. In his letter, he said political interference in JNU and other academic institutions should be stopped immediately and left be to managed by the academicians. Terming as “highly disturbing” the yesterday’s attack on students teachers and journalists, Kejriwal demanded strict action against Sharma who was seen attacking a CPI activist outside the court premises.

Journalists, students and teachers of JNU were beaten up allegedly by groups of lawyers in Patiala House court complex where JNUSU president Kanhaiya Kumar was to be produced before a metropolitan magistrate for remand proceedings. “If such shameful incidents take place inside the court premises, where will the citizens be safe? Front pages of almost all newspapers today have published the photograph of BJP MLA OP Sharma beating up a youth in full public view outside the court premises.

“Immediate action should be taken against lumpen and anarchist elements such as Sharma to give a clear signal that such kind of activities will not be tolerated,” he added. Kejriwal said he feels if PM calls Sharma once and scolds him, he will not dare to repeat his actions again in life, and added that if that is not done, such elements will feel they have the complete support of the central government. “In case you (PM) take these steps, I am fully confident that the entire country will appreciate it and all political parties will cooperate with you on this issue,” he said. Earlier in the day, Sharma had claimed a group of people had hit him and that his action as “natural”.