http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/the-rising-trend-of-illegal-detentions-in-karnataka/article8237668.ece
1014
10
Days after being accused by his company of stealing Rs. 1.5 lakh, Manoj (name changed) made his way to the Nandini Layout police station on January 27 to proclaim his innocence. For days, he was allegedly kept there without a case filed against him, and was even beaten up.

“We went to the station, and clearly he was beaten up. They hadn’t even filed an FIR, nor had they produced him before the magistrate. They said if we don’t pay Rs. 1.2 lakh, they would ensure that a strong theft case was filed and that he would remain in jail for a long time,” said Mr. Manoj’s sister.

With no other way out, the family filed a complaint with the Karnataka State Human Rights Commission (KSHRC). A raid was conducted on January 28, and officials said it was “clear” that this was a case of illegal detention: no case was filed and the station records did not reflect his detention. The police denied the charges and said a theft case had been booked on January 27 itself. However, coincidently, it was on January 29, one day after the raid, that the accused was produced in court.

This, however, is not an isolated case. Often, accusations of petty theft can lead one to the station without evidence. Just two weeks earlier, the commission had raided Shivajinagar police station after a complaint was filed stating that a man had been detained in the station without being charged for two days.

While there is “significant improvement” in policing, Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Alok Mohan believes that the number of complaints is on the rise because of increased awareness among citizens. “Illegal detentions are against the law and policemen are directed to follow procedure. While it may persist in some instances, often when suspects are taken for questioning, people get worried and assume an arrest has been made. Because of a negative perception of the police department, even lawful questioning is sometimes believed to be illegal detention,” he said.

Disturbing numbers



In the past three years, more than 422 cases of illegal detention by the police have been filed across the State — and statistics show a growing trend.

“This is such a menace that it has become usual business for the police,” said Mathews Philip from human rights group South India Cell for Human Rights Education and Monitoring (SICHREM). “It is a form of extortion that continues despite the KSHRC raids.”

KHSRC officials too believe that violations have continued despite the raids. In many cases, the accused is given a ‘Bengaluru darshan’ when information is received of the raid, or charges are filed just before the officials arrive.

In a recent case, a mother complained to the commission claiming that her son was kidnapped, when, in reality, police in mufti had detained him without giving a reason to the family. Often, men with previous cases are detained to “fix” them in other crimes, KSHRC officials said.

“We have received many such cases, and continue to raid the police stations. Though the police may claim law and order issues, we have to ensure procedure is followed when taking someone for questioning,” said Meera Saxena, in-charge chairperson of the commission.

Box

Do the police follow procedure?

It took six years for a case involving the illegal detention of 11 people, including minors, to see light at the end of the tunnel.

In 2009, human rights group South India Cell for Human Rights Education and Monitoring (SICHREM) approached the Karnataka State Human Rights Commission (KSHRC) after the Byatarayanapura police allegedly demanded Rs. 5,000 to release the 11 people accused of theft, including two minors, without filing an FIR.

After a series of notices and enquiries, in late 2015 KSHRC ordered disciplinary inquiries against two policemen and ordered that Rs. 25,000 be given to each of the 11 detainees. The police were given two months to submit an action taken report, but they are yet to send their response.

Both KSHRC officials and activists admit that often, there is no response or action taken by the police. Policemen are transferred to shield them, or writ petitions are filed before the courts to delay any action. “As there is no follow-up, there is very little action taken by the police on these officials. Often, they claim that the report has not arrived, or even if it has, there is no compliance…the raids serve as a caution for the police, but have not been a good enough deterrent,” said Mathews Philip from SICHREM.

Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Alok Mohan said strict action is taken against policemen violating the law. “There is a procedure to be followed after the KSHRC order. We conduct departmental inquiries to give the other side a chance to explain, and then decide the action to be taken,” he said.

RELATED NEWS Human rights to be part of school curriculum in Karnataka