http://www.independent.co.uk/voices/ingrained-bias-means-civil-servants-are-drawn-from-a-narrow-social-and-economic-pool-a6875916.html
100
10
In modern Britain, it is getting harder and harder for young people from ordinary backgrounds to move up and get on.

The Government purports to care about this. It set up the social mobility commission under Alan Milburn and claims social mobility is at the heart of every policy it pursues. And in the past two weeks, it has lambasted Britain’s universities over their admission record of black and working class pupils.

But how do we square that with a government that is making it harder not easier for students from ordinary backgrounds to afford to go to university?

It has scrapped Labour's education maintenance allowance, overseen a massive hike in university tuition fees and scrapped maintenance grants for students from poorer households.

These non-repayable grants of up to £3,387 per year were there to help students with the costs of their rent, food and textbooks. In my constituency of Ashfield alone, 690 students benefited from the grants in 2013-14.

But now these grants - which have helped thousands of students from poor backgrounds access university education - are being replaced with loans, putting off thousands of teenagers who do not want to start their working lives saddled with debts.

The Government's rhetoric on social mobility does not match the reality of its policies.

Take another area: recruitment of graduates to the civil service fast stream.

Just over a year ago, I wrote about the shameful under-representation of former state school pupils in the ranks of graduates recruited to the fast stream in 2013.

Black candidates fared equally poorly compared to their white counterparts, as pointed out by former fast streamer, Damian McBride in his own analysis In the wake of the Government’s attack on universities on exactly these two issues, I looked at the latest figures for fast stream recruitment covering 2014, expecting to see a remarkable improvement. Instead, I found them throwing stones from inside a glass house.

UK news in pictures







32 show all UK news in pictures





























































1/32 1 November 2016 A woman looks at a work by Damien Hirst with David Bowie entitled Beautiful hallo, space-boy painting, 1995, during the press preview of The Personal Collection of David Bowie ahead of being sold by Sothebyís in London Nick Ansell/PA Wire

2/32 1 November 2016 Technicians carry a ladder as they prepare for the exhibition of British pop star David Bowie's art collection at Sotheby's auction house, in central London REUTERS/Hannah McKay

3/32 1 November 2016 'Air Power' by Jean-Michel Basquiat, with an estimate of £2.5 million - £3.5 million, part British pop star David Bowie's collection, is exhibited in a press view at Sotheby's auction house, in central London Reuters

4/32 1 November 2016 'Chess Set,' by man Ray, with an estimate of 20,000 GBP - 30,000 GBP, part of British pop star Bowie's art collection, is exhibited in a press view at Sotheby's auction house, in central London. The auction house will stage a three-part sale entitled Bowie/Collector, which includes 350 works from Bowie' s private collection Reuters

5/32 1 November 2016 A seagull sits on top of a lamp post, in front of the London Eye, during a foggy morning in central London REUTERS/Stefan Wermuth

6/32 1 November 2016 Guardsmen prepare to take part in a ceremonial welcome for Colombia's President Juan Manuel Santos Getty

7/32 1 November 2016 Coldstream Guards line up in preparation for the ceremonial welcome for Colombia's President Juan Manuel Santos Reuters

8/32 1 November 2016 Queen Elizabeth II greets Colombia's President Juan Manuel Santos at a ceremonial welcome for Colombia's President Juan Manuel Santos and his wife Maria Clemencia de Santos at Horse Guards Parade in London Getty

9/32 1 November 2016 Britain's Prime Minister Theresa May, British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson and Home Secretary Amber Rudd take part in a ceremonial welcome at Horse Guards Parade for Colombia's President Juan Manuel Santos and his wife Maria Clemencia de Santos in central London Getty

10/32 1 November 2016 Britain's Queen Elizabeth II greets British Prime Minister Theresa May during a ceremonial welcome at Horse Guards Parade for Colombia's President Juan Manuel Santos and his wife Maria Clemencia de Santos in central London Getty

11/32 1 November 2016 British Prime Minister Theresa May takes part in a ceremonial welcome at Horse Guards Parade for Colombia's President Juan Manuel Santos and his wife Maria Clemencia de Santos in central London Getty

12/32 1 November 2016 Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos walks with Britain's Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh as he reviews a guard of honour during a ceremonial welcome at the start of the Colombian president's three-day state visit to the UK at Horse Guards Parade in central London Getty

13/32 1 November 2016 Colombia's President Juan Manuel Santos and his wife Maria Clemencia de Santos, are greeted by Britain's Prince Charles and Camilla REUTERS/Chris Jackson/Pool

14/32 1 November 2016 Britain's Queen Elizabeth II and Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos ride along The Mall in a royal carriage following a ceremony at Horseguards Parade in central London EPA

15/32 31 October 2016 Campaigners from the Orgreave Truth and Justice Campaign on College Green, London, as campaigners urging an official inquiry into the 1984 clash between police and miners at Orgreave have said they will respond in detail after Home Secretary Amber Rudd rejected their calls Nick Ansell/PA Wire

16/32 25 October 2016 Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn sits alongside his deputy Tom Watson at a shadow cabinet meeting in the Houses of Parliament PA wire

17/32 26 October 2016 Hayley and Imran from London demonstrate a prototype 'digital for-sale sign', which has been developed by Post Office Money Mortgages to help people sell their homes and engage potential buyers PA wire

18/32 25 October 2016 Protesters from Reclaim the Power and Plane Stupid against airport expansion take part in a demonstration outside the Houses of Parliament Getty

19/32 25 October 2016 Protestors from Plane Stupid stage a demonstration with a mock runway outside the Houses of Parliament in London EPA

20/32 24 October 2016 Gulls fly over The River Thames as the sun sets behind the Palace of Westminster Getty

21/32 24 October 2016 Spanish Intern Isabel checks Corriander plants in one of the Underground tunnels at 'Growing Underground' in Clapham, London. The former air raid shelters covering 65,000 square feet lie 120 feet under Clapham High street and are home to 'Growing Underground', the UKs first underground farm Getty

22/32 24 October 2016 'Growing Underground', the UKs first underground farm. The farms produce includes pea shoots, rocket, wasabi mustard, red basil and red amaranth, pink stem radish, garlic chives, fennel and coriander, and supply to restaurants across London including Michelin-starred chef Michel Roux Jr's 'Le Gavroche'

23/32 24 October 2016 A member of staff admires a selection of work including 'Landscape of the Vernal Equinox', part of an exhibition of Paul Nash's work at the Tate Britain in Pimlico, London PA wire

24/32 24 October 2016 Early morning sunshine hits the Wallace Monument in Stirling, with the Ochil mountain range in the background PA wire

25/32 24 October 2016 A member of staff looks at 'Totes Meer' while another watches artist Paul Nash as depicted in the film 'Out of Chaos' by Jill Craigie, both part of an exhibition of Paul Nash's work at the Tate Britain in Pimlico, London PA wire

26/32 24 October 2016 The Duke of Cambridge, known as the Earl of Strathearn in Scotland touches the castle key being held by the Earl of Mar, the castle key keeper, as he arrives at Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders Regimental Museum at Stirling Castle PA wire

27/32 24 October 2016 The key to Stirling Castle before the Duke of Cambridge, known as the Earl of Strathearn in Scotland, arrives at Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders Regimental Museum at Stirling Castle PA wire

28/32 21 October 2016 Tracy Brabin gives a speech after winning the by-election in murdered Labour Party MP Jo Cox's Batley and Spen constituency Reuters

29/32 20 October 2016 Fin whale which was found by wardens at the Holkham National Nature Reserve on the North Norfolk coast Penny Clarke/Bav Media

30/32 20 October 2016 'I, Daniel Blake' is projected onto wall on Belvedere Road on the South Bank Getty

31/32 20 October 2016 'I, Daniel Blake' is projected onto the British Film Institute Getty

32/32 20 October 2016 'I, Daniel Blake' is projected onto the Houses of Parliament Getty

First, let’s look at black candidates.

The success rate for black and mixed-race applicants for the fast stream in 2014 was 1.8 per cent, well below the 5 per cent success rate achieved by white fast stream applicants.

Black and mixed-race graduates made up 5.8 per cent of all British fast stream applicants, but just 2.3 per cent of all those who were successful.

So the fast stream is not struggling to attract black and mixed-race candidates – they are applying in higher proportions than they make up the British population – it is just not giving them jobs.

Take the almost 300 applicants to the fast stream of Caribbean origin in 2014. Just five succeeded.

In short, if the government believes the university sector has an issue with black candidates, they first need to take a long, hard look at their own civil service fast stream.

Let’s turn to applicants from state school and working class backgrounds.The success rate for fast stream candidates educated in non-selective state schools was 4 per cent, well below the 5.4 per cent success rate for privately-educated graduates.

Look at the proportions of successful candidates, and the numbers are more stark.

Graduates from non-selective state schools made up exactly 50 per cent of all fast stream applicants, but just 43.6 per cent of successful ones. In contrast, graduates from independent schools made up 18.5 per cent of applicants, but 22 per cent of those who succeeded.

As for students from poorer households, the failures are equally glaring. In 2014, graduates whose parents were in routine or manual employment made up 8.1 per cent of fast stream applicants, but just 4.4 per cent of those who succeeded. In contrast, those whose parents work in higher managerial, administrative and professional occupations were twice as likely to succeed with their applications.

Trust in the government among low earners is half that of wealthier individuals (Rex)



Astonishingly, of 718 candidates from poorer backgrounds who applied for the top graduate fast stream scheme – serving in Whitehall, Parliament or the diplomatic corps – only 8 succeeded.

It does not help that the civil service “summer diversity internship programme” – designed to give students from under-represented groups experience of fast stream work – gives such favourable treatment to applicants from well-off and privately-educated backgrounds.

Applicants whose parents work in higher managerial, administrative and professional occupations made up more than half of those accepted to the programme in 2014; those whose parents were in routine or manual employment made up less than a quarter.

In addition, the success rate of non-selective state school applicants was just 15.3 per cent compared to 25 per cent for applicants from private schools. And this to get on the “diversity programme.”

The civil service is clearly defensive about the accusation that it is not doing enough to recruit candidates from ethnic minority and working class backgrounds.

Its own report on fast stream recruitment says: “If the best people, recruited on merit, do not reflect society at large then we need to look to our education system to provide more support for younger generations to ensure they have the opportunity to become our future leaders.”

So the civil service passes the buck to universities, who in turn pass the buck to secondary schools, who ask what they are supposed to do, and nothing ever gets changed.

The Government talks the talk on social mobility and deserves credit for raising the issue of university admissions. I agree with the Prime Minister when he says that “we must be far more demanding of our institutions, and be relentless in the pursuit of creative answers.”

But where are the demanding questions being asked of fast stream recruitment? Where are the creative answers to their under-representation of black and working class talent?

David Cameron is the Minister for the Civil Service and the simple fact is that – on all the measures on which his government is challenging universities – his own fast stream scheme is currently no better, and in many instances, much worse.

The Prime Minister needs to put his own house in order before throwing any more stones at others. He might not be willing to U-turn on maintenance grants, but his own civil service recruitment would be a good place to start.

Gloria De Piero MP is shadow Minister for Young People and Voter Registration