http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/indonesia/12158132/Grammys-2016-12-year-old-Indonesian-jazz-prodigy-Joey-Alexander-nominated-for-top-awards.html
100
10
Peering out from beneath his mop of curly dark hair and behind his oversized glasses, Joey Alexander seems barely able to see across the top of the piano after he takes his place at the stool.

But the 12-year-old prodigy who is taking the jazz world by storm has been nominated for two Grammy awards at Monday night’s ceremony – the youngest musician ever to be shortlisted for honours in that genre.

As remarkable as his age is his life story. For while Joey may now be a protégé of Wynton Marsalis, he hails not from a renowned hotbed of jazz but from Bali in Indonesia .

The holiday island is famed for its Hindu temples, tourist beaches and lush vegetation rather than the music that originated from African American communities of New Orleans.

But there just six years ago he taught himself to play the piano listening to his father’s collection of Duke Ellington, Charlie Parker and Thelonious Monk albums.

He started to perform in local clubs in Bali at six and in the capital Jakarta at eight. His family moved to New York two years ago as his career took off and last year he captivated audiences at the Newport Jazz Festival as the youngest performer in the history of the world’s most prestigious jazz event.

When the Grammy award show goes on air on at what will be breakfast time on Tuesday in Bali, one man will be watching Joey’s progress with particular interest – and pride.

For Indra Lesmana, Indonesia’s most famous jazz pianist, is the musician who took Joey under his wing at his own Jakarta club, mentored and taught him – and made the recommendation that gave him his big break in New York.

Lesmana first heard Joey play when his parents brought him to his club, the RedWhite Jazz Lounge to jam at one of our event, Jazz For Kids.

“His parents contacted and asked me if could teach Joey,” he told The Telegraph. “He was very gifted and clearly had a huge potential to become a great musician.”

The youngster was a keen student, insisting on sitting right next to Lesmana so that he could follow his fingers as they danced along the piano.

“We had a lot of young kids playing around at my club, great to have them,” he recalled. As Joey’s parents were already home schooling him, he could fit his jazz lessons around his education.

Lesmana taught Joey for two years and then recommended to a close friend who runs the jazz programme at the Lincoln Centre in Manhattan that he perform there.

A video of Joey in action was shown to Marsalis, the centre’s artistic director. He was impressed enough to invite the young Indonesian to perform at the annual gala.

When he made his New York debut, Joey chose to play “Round Midnight”, a song renowned as one of the toughest in jazz. By the time he finished, the orchestra and audience were on their feet for a standing ovation.

The boy wonder started writing his own songs at 10 with the composition “Ma Blues” and is already hailed as a master of improvisation who makes up most of what he plays after he sits down to play.

“When I'm in stage I never plan, you know, ‘I'm going to do this’,” he said in a recently aired CBS interview. “But of course, you have a concept what you're going to do. But you don't really plan it.”

Wynton Marsalis told the show: “I've never heard anyone who could play like him. And no one has heard a person who could play like him. There's no question that [he has genius].”

As a young child he was hyperactive, so his parents Denny and Fara Silas bought him a keyboard to channel his energy. There are musicians in the family but they had no clue of his aptitude.

But Marsalis insisted that Joey is not the product of pushy parents. “This kid philosophically is so strong,” he told CBS. “And his parents are not pushing him. He's pushing them.”

Back in Indonesia, Lesmana has now moved from Jakarta to Bali to record a new album and open his own school of music there this year – and perhaps discover another Joey Alexander.

And as he prepares to watch the show’s broadcast from Los Angeles with his family on television at home, he added: “Joey has opened up a lot of people's eyes to see and know that Indonesia has so many great jazz talents. I'm very proud of him.”