http://www.freemalaysiatoday.com/category/nation/2016/02/15/azalina-defends-need-to-bring-in-1-5m-bangladeshis/
100
10
Minister says even in her Pengerang constituency, locals cannot last long in the oil and gas industry.

PETALING JAYA: “Locals can’t stand very long or work long hours. They can’t work as welders or do hard labour as they cannot take the stress.”

Minister in the Prime Minister’s Department Azalina Othman said this when attempting to quell growing criticisms against the imminent influx of 1.5 million Bangladesh workers into the country.

She insisted the federal government had made the correct decision to fulfil industrial needs.

She said the foreign workers were urgently needed to fill vacancies in the dirty, dangerous and difficult (3D) sectors as Malaysians continued to shun such jobs.

”It’s the right and timely decision as we badly need the 1.5 million Bangladesh workers.

“It’s an industrial need. Malaysians don’t want to work in this sector. What can we do?” said Azalina after paying a courtesy call on Universiti Sains Malaysia (USM) Vice-Chancellor Professor Omar Osman in George Town.

Azalina said even in her Pengerang parliamentary constituency, locals could not last long in the oil and gas industry.

She said the people should stop blaming the government for bringing in foreign workers.

“We can change by accepting all these jobs, without being choosy.

“The government will never forget the locals. We’ve trained and retrained workers. But they don’t want to stay in 3D jobs for very long. What are we supposed to do?

“This is an economic situation. We need to move on or the young generation must put their pride aside and apply for work in these sectors, or we would lose our competitive edge against our neighbours.

“Either we bring in workers or many of our industries will close shop.

Azalina said the government would take all steps necessary by screening these workers thoroughly and making sure they left the country once their work permits expired.

Deputy Prime Minister Ahmad Zahid Hamidi announced last week that the 1.5 million Bangladeshis would be brought in stages to work in 3D jobs in the country over the next three years.

Some have called on the government to legalise the estimated four million foreign workers in the country.

Critics also warned that more foreign workers would result in more socio-economic problems involving housing, food supply and healthcare.