http://usa.onlinenigeria.com/news/154377-wanted,-more-women-at-the-coalface-the-world%E2%80%99s-second-biggest-mining-company-pledges-that-half-of-its-workforce-will-be-female-by-2025.html
100
10
Already working to this goal, as 49% of the graduate trainees are women

Promised to make women half the workforce within the next 10 years

BHP Billiton said women had been disadvantaged too long in coal mining

By Sabah Meddings, City Correspondent For The Daily Mail

Published: 19:38 EST, 20 October 2016 | Updated: 19:49 EST, 20 October 2016

Queen Elizabeth on a visit to the coal mines in Fife in 1958. The industry's second largest company pledged to make half its employees women in the next 10 years

It's an industry that’s been dominated by men for thousands of years.

But this is set to change as the world’s second biggest mining company wants women to make up half of its workforce by 2025.

BHP Billiton, which mines petroleum, copper, iron ore and coal, said women had been disadvantaged for too long in a male-dominated environment.

It has already brought more women into its workforce at a junior level, with 49pc of its graduate trainees now women.

But the new policy is a steep climb from the 17pc of women already in the business, and suggests it would have 50pc of women at board at executive level, as well as workers in its mines across Australia and South America.

Andrew Mackenzie, chief executive, said while progress had been made, without new initiatives it would take 30 years just to get 30pc female representation.

Andrew Mackenzie, chief executive of BHP Billiton, said there should be more done to get a gender balance in the industry

‘More must, and will be done,’ he said at the company’s annual general meeting in London yesterday. ‘Our 2025 aspirational goal is to achieve gender balance at all levels of the organisation over the next decade.

‘It is ambitious and challenging and will deliver a major step change for our organisation. We know our people will rise to the challenge.

‘Together, we will make it happen because inclusion and diversity is key to our success.’

BHP has just over 26,000 direct employees, and 38,000 contractors, in which it also hopes to boost the representation of women.

BHP has announced ambitious plans to make half of its workforce women by 2025. Mining is one industry where women are least represented. Pictured: boots outside the last deep coal mine Kellingley Colliery

Its bold statement comes after a troubled year for the company, which is struggling with the after effects of a Brazilian mining disaster which killed 19 people.

The tragedy – known as the Samarco dam collapse – sparked a multi-billion pound lawsuit which could deal a damaging blow to BHP’s finances.

Mining remains one of the industries where women are least represented.

A 2015 survey of 500 mining companies found that women made up less than 8pc of boardroom appointments and less than 12pc of executives.

BHP’s determination to shift the gender balance in its workforce comes as other sectors are also stepping up efforts to recruit more women.

Some 72 firms have signed up to a new Government Women in Finance Charter aimed at improving gender diversity, with 60 pledging to have at least 30pc of women in senior roles by 2021.

Thirteen, including Virgin Money and Legal and General, are aiming for gender parity in senior positions.