http://mumbaimirror.indiatimes.com/mumbai/others/Metro-3-Bigger-homes-for-affected-SoBo-residents/articleshow/54385384.cms
100
10
With the Shiv Sena raising the issue of space to target the BJP-led state government every now and then, Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis has decided to pay back the Uddhav Thackeray led party in the same coin.



The CM-led Urban Development Ministry has now decided to accept a proposal to give homes twice as big as existing ones to people who will be affected by the Metro 3 project on the stretch between Gamdevi and Girgaum.



The proposal by the Mumbai Metro Railway Corporation (MMRC) is likely to be cleared by the state cabinet very soon, said sources. The CM is keen that work on the Rs 25,000-crore project starts by next month, they said.



BJP's partner Sena is opposed to the underground Colaba-Bandra-Seepz corridor passing through these localities on the grounds that the south Mumbai pockets will lose their Marathi-speaking population.



Over the past few months, the Sena has demanded carving out open spaces such as parks and playgrounds from plots that the state has sought to monetise to raise funds for big-ticket infrastructure projects.



For instance, when it emerged last week that the state wanted to sell a 30-acre plot in Bandra West to generate Rs 2,000 crore for the Mumbai-Nagpur Expressway project, the Sena said it should set aside aportion for a public park.



In this case, however, the lure of bigger homes in neighbourhoods where scores of buildings stand cheek-by-jowl and urgently need repairs is likely to blunt Sena's tactics, especially just months ahead of the BMC elections.



According to the MMRC proposal, 64 families and 250 commercial establishments from Gamdevi, and 50 families and 27 shops from Girgaum will need to be pulled down to make way for Metro 3 project.



Those living in homes with carpet areas between 200 sq ft and 300 sq ft will be given apartments double the size at new buildings that will be built at Bhaji Market and Kamaniwadi in the vicinity, says the proposal.



While residents of homes between 300 sq ft and 400 sq ft carpet area will get space up to 600 sq ft, those having flats with an area of more than 400 sq ft will be given apartments with 35 per cent extra carpet area.



All the affected commercial establishments will be given 20 per cent more carpet area than their existing space. Last week, Fadnavis issued orders directing the BMC to hand over 27 plots in south Mumbai belonging to the civic body to MMRC. While the move had been opposed by the corporation earlier, the CM used his powers to override the BMC's decision.