http://www.business-standard.com/article/news-ians/arrest-jharkhand-bjp-mla-for-extortion-opposition-116021500879_1.html
100
10
Arrest Jharkhand BJP MLA for extortion: Opposition

The opposition in on Monday demanded the arrest of Dhulu Mahto, a legislator of the ruling (BJP), for allegedly seeking money from a Russian company in Dhanbad district.

"The legislator should be arrested. The state has provided special security to the legislator and he is using it for extortion," Hemant Soren, Mukti Morcha (JMM) leader and former chief minister, told reporters here.

Dhulu Mahto has described the charge as "baseless" and politically motivated.

Earlier, the police had said that a Russian company working with Bharat Coking Coal Ltd at Dhanbad reportedly informed the Russian consulate that legislator Dhulu Mahto has been causing obstruction in their work for the last few months.

On Sunday, police spokesperson S.N. Pradhan had told IANS: "Necessary direction has been given to Dhanbad police chief to look into the issue."

Soren said that on the one hand Prime Minster Narendra Modi has been inviting investors and on the other his party legislators have been extorting money from foreign companies.

Echoing his view, Vikas Morcha-Prajatantrik (JVM-P) legislator Pradeep Yadav said: "The Russian company should seek the intervention of the prime minister. It seems the state government is shielding him."

The CPI-ML has also demanded action against the legislator.

"Law and order situation is the worst in the state. Rape, murder and crime cases are rising. legislator is harassing Russian company. The legislator should be arrested," Raj Kumar Yadav, CPI-ML legislator, told reporters.

The Russian consulate reportedly sent a letter to Chief Minister Raghubar Das informing him about the issue.

The company officials on Saturday reported the matter to Dhanbad police and sought security. The police have registered a complaint and started an investigation.

The police said that there was deployment of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) in the areas in which the Russian company operates. The law will prevail and no one will be allowed to interfere in the development work, it said.

Dismissing the allegations against him, Dhulu Mahto told IANS: "The allegations are baseless. There is a section of people who want to damage me politically. Let there be a fair probe in this regard."

IANS