http://www.philstar.com:8080/headlines/2016/09/13/1623296/congress-pressed-death-penalty
100
10
MANILA, Philippines - Amid criticism of his administration’s ruthless anti-drug campaign, President Duterte pressed Congress yesterday to restore the death penalty “to instill fear of violating the law.”

Duterte lamented that previous leaders lacked the courage to fully implement the death penalty, which he said would have prevented the drug menace from reaching the current alarming levels.

The President has asked his allies in Congress to work for the restoration of the death penalty. Capital punishment was abolished after Ferdinand Marcos was ousted in 1986 and a new Constitution was written, but it was retained for heinous crimes.

During the presidency of Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, Congress abolished capital punishment.

The failure to effectively implement the death penalty removed the “essence of criminal law,” which Duterte said, is the “fear of violating the law.”

“Walang namatay, kasi walang (No one died because there was no)… you removed actually, the essence of criminal law, (which) is the fear to violate the law. What prevailed was not the fear of the law but impunity and the absence of accountability,” he added.

Headlines ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1

Duterte, a lawyer, said people in the corridors of power such as governors and mayors have refused to follow the law.

He was referring to those who are engaged in illegal activities.

“However, you bring the matter to a physical, medical or spiritual issue, for as long as the essence of fear is not there. Fear of accountability, that is why I want the death penalty. You answer for your deeds,” he said.

Pinoys divided

Meanwhile, a pro-life lawmaker yesterday said an informal survey conducted by the House of Representatives had shown that Filipinos are divided on the issue of reviving the death penalty to deter heinous crimes.

“Filipinos hunger and thirst for justice, not for blood. And this craving for justice may be satisfied only by profound and comprehensive reforms in law enforcement, prosecution service, the judiciary and our prisons,” Buhay party-list Rep. Lito Atienza said.

“Offhand, many Filipinos who appear to favor the revival of capital punishment are merely venting their exasperation over the miserable performance of our criminal justice system,” the senior deputy minority leader said.

He issued the statement in response to results of an online poll by the House’s official website, showing 50 percent of participants favoring the renewal of capital punishment, 48 percent rejecting it and two percent undecided.

He described support for lethal injection as “shaky, weak and shallow.”

“The ratings imply that the reinstatement of the death penalty is a highly discordant matter best deferred by Congress,” he said.

He blamed widespread corruption for the dismal functioning of the country’s justice system, which has “deeply frustrated and angered” many Filipinos.