http://www.tribune.net.ph/commentary/wrong-leader-to-plead-for-veloso-s-life
100
10
Indonesian President Joko “Jokowi” Widodo yesterday quoted President Duterte as saying for Indonesia to “go ahead” with Mary Jane Veloso’s execution, if she has to be executed.

Jokowi and Duterte, who was on a trip to Indonesia and met with its president, spoke about the fate of Veloso, the Philippine drug convict who is on death row in Indonesia.

“I have already spoken (to President Duterte) about Mary Jane’s case. I said that Mary Jane brought 2.6 kilograms of heroin. And I also told him about the postponement of the execution. At that time, President Duterte said ‘go ahead’ if (Mary Jane) were to be executed,” Jokowi told media after Eid prayers at the At-Tsauroh Mosque in Serang on Monday.

When asked about the ongoing legal process in the Philippines regarding Mary Jane’s case, Jokowi said: “The legal process is up to the Attorney General. But that is what President Duterte said.”

Before leaving for Indonesia, Duterte said:” Well, I may just have to ask President Widodo in a most respectful and in very, very courteous way. And if my pleadings will fall on deaf ears, I am ready to accept it — for the simple reason I do not doubt the judicial system of Indonesia,” he said.

Upon arrival in Manila, however, Duterte said he did talk to Jokowi about Mary Jane but only between the two of them. He refused to discuss their conversation, saying that he was not at liberty to divulge details and would talk to Veloso’s family first.

There is no reason for Widodo not to issue that statement to reporters that Duterte had said for the Indonesian President to “go ahead” with the execution of Mary Jane Veloso.

Widodo has been very, very firm on executing convicted drug mules and has refused to listen to the pleas of other foreign governments to spare their nationals’ lives. He certainly wouldn’t change his convictions merely because Duterte, an Asean president, has asked him to spare the life of Veloso.

Then too, the fact that Duterte has been silent over the fate of Mary Jane Veloso after his trip, already speaks volumes, since Duterte would have been first to blurt out to the nation that he had succeeded in saving Veloso’s life.

Quite frankly, Duterte is not the right person to seek from Widodo the sparing of Veloso’s life, considering the fact that she, a drug mule , whether innocent as she claimed, or guilty, was convicted after having been given due process by the state, but also that the laws of Indonesia on drug runners, call for the death penalty.

Duterte is not the right person to seek clemency for a convicted drug runner, since he himself believes in having drug runners, pushers, drug lords, and even drug users killed. And all these killings have been committed under the Duterte administration, under his orders.

Worse, in the case of Indonesia, due process was respected and applied, which unfortunately, led to a death sentence, as Indonesia’s laws allow executions.

Not so, under the incumbent tenant residing in Malacañang since under the present Constitution, the death penalty had been abolished under the term of then President Gloria Arroyo.

But that hasn’t stopped Duterte, who wants not only the death penalty resurrected in the Constitution, but also wants the death penalty to carry with it, hanging twice the drug dealer, pusher, user, runner and whoever else is suspected of being into the illegal drugs business.

Making worse worst is the fact that these suspected persons who deal in drugs are not given due process and are killed instantly by Duterte’s police, with them claiming that killings, some 2,000 of suspects that have been killed by the cops in the line of duty; that the suspect shot it out with the law enforcers, and that the police merely were defending themselves, despite some instances where the suspected drug users or pushers, were already in handcuffs and cuffed from the back, which would be impossible for the suspect to have grabbed the policeman’s gun, and even have a shoot out with the cop.

More often than not, these killings are staged and in many instances, could be categorized as state sanctioned extrajudicial killings.

Then too, there are the other extrajudicial killings by masked men riding in tandem who execute alleged drug pushers and users, who act no differently from the Davao Death Squad during Duterte’s term as mayor of Davao City.

This continues despite the fact that the Duterte regime already has its cops killing the suspected drug pushers, lords and addicts.

It does not make sense for these drug death squad to summarily execute these suspects, and attach cardboards on the bodies, saying, “I am a drug pusher, don’t be like me.”

Why bother to kill these drug pushers and users, when the state already does this?

Chances are, they are being summarily executed by these masked men, not to murder these suspects, but are paid to murder both political opponents and even an erring spouse, or a neighbor with whom the payer may have been at odds.

Or, these same murderers have been told by some crooked cops and officials to kill these suspects, for fear that if kept alive, that suspect may just sing like a canary and point to the “big drug boss.”