http://www.politico.eu/article/central-bloc-demands-rights-for-eu-migrants-settled-in-uk-poland-hungary-the-czech-republic-slovakia-brexit-eu-referendum-migration-benefits/
100
10
Poland's Prime Minister Beata Szydło arrives for the Summit of the V4 prime ministers | Michael Cizek/AFP/Getty Central bloc demands rights for EU migrants settled in UK Visegrád Group call for ban on benefits to apply to those who arrive after the law comes into effect.

EU citizens already settled in the United Kingdom must be spared from David Cameron’s planned restrictions on benefits, Central European leaders said Monday evening.

At a summit in Prague, the Visegrád Group — Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovakia — coordinated their response to the British prime minister’s demands for EU reforms which will be debated at a February 18-19 European Council.

Their main concern was ensuring that a ban on in-work benefits for EU migrants would only apply to those who arrive after the law comes into effect.

They also want such a provision to apply to child benefits being sent abroad, which the British want to be index linked to the economic situation in the country where the child lives.

“With in-work benefits the text is clear,” Tomáš Prouza, the Czech Republic’s state secretary for EU affairs and a key ally of Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, told POLITICO.

“We need the same clarity for the child benefits indexation — same rules, only to the newcomers.”

“It’s only fair if you change the rules then it’s for those who decide to come after.”

Defending rights

“Our fundamental goal is the defense of rights obtained by people already on the islands,” Konrad Szymański, Poland’s Europe minister, told Polish radio Monday evening.

He said which benefits would be suspended had still to be determined, as “not all can and should be [suspended].”

Beata Szydło, Poland’s prime minister, said after the summit that the migration plan creates “difficult to accept” issues for the countries of the region.

Early on Monday, during a press conference with European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker, Romanian Prime Minister Dacian Cioloş called for the so-called safety mechanism on migration to be limited to exceptional situations that last for only a short period of time.

He echoed the Visegrád position on the indexation of child benefits, saying, “We want this mechanism to only apply to those who will go to work in the U.K. from now on.”

To ensure that the contentious reform can only be implemented by the U.K. and not by other countries, a line was added last week to the reform text that the safety mechanism would only be available to countries that opened their labor market to EU migrants immediately after the accession of the Central European countries in 2004. The only countries to do this were the U.K., Sweden and Ireland.

The Visegrád countries want the same rules to apply to child benefits.

“The whole discussion which we always thought would be U.K. specific is now being hijacked by some other countries that are talking about re-modeling the whole social system,” Prouza said.

“The Germans, Austrians and Benelux, they’re starting to say we should apply the indexation of child benefits. The Luxembourgers and the Belgians have talked about indexing unemployment benefits.”

A sherpa from a Western EU country confirmed this concern, saying: “There’s a tension between Eastern European states and the Western countries, who are saying, ‘What about me? What if I want to use this mechanism?'”

He also said that they want to ensure the text is updated to clarify that the safety mechanism only applies to “non-contributory benefits.”

“The ban would not apply to sickness benefits because you pay into the system,” Prouza said.

“We think if any benefits are based on you paying into the system first, you should get back the same amount that you pay in.”

Sobotka will meet with Tusk in Prague on Tuesday morning where they will discuss their demands, with the hopes that they will be included in the text by the eve of the summit.

Cameron is hoping to secure a deal this week so that a referendum can be held in June.

Jan Cienski contributed to this article.