http://gulfnews.com/news/uae/crime/arrested-filipino-drug-lord-to-reveal-his-politician-protectors-1.1919040
100
10
Manila: An alleged Filipino drug lord arrested in the UAE will name his Filipino politician protectors once he is repatriated to Manila, said a whistle blower who revealed that she was responsible for his arrest in Abu Dhabi last week.

Rolando “Kerwin” Eslabon Espinosa is “willing to name 12 politician-drug lord protectors. They are big fish,” Sandra Cam, president of the Whistle Blower Association, said in a press conference in Quezon City, Philippines, on Tuesday.

“His extradition is being worked out. He will be in Manila in three more weeks,” said Cam.

According to Philippine Ambassador to the UAE Constancio Vingno Jr, the embassy is waiting for the Office of the Chief Prosecutor to endorse Espinosa’s case to the UAE Ministry of Justice after their investigation.

Who is Rolando 'Kerwin' Espinosa?



Wanted Filipino drug lord arrested in Abu Dhabi

“We have no findings as of yet if he conducted illegal transactions here. We are still waiting for the UAE’s Ministry of Justice to approve the repatriation request. Once approved, the Philippine Police attache in Riyadh will escort Espinosa to the Philippines. That will be the scenario,” Vingno told Gulf News.

“He needs to be repatriated to face charges in the Philippines. It is in our interests that he be repatriated as soon as possible,” he added.

Narrating her role in Espinosa’s arrest, Cam said, “It happened after I served lunch for the inmates at the maximum security of the National Bilibid Prison (NBP) in Taguig on my birthday on October 8.”

“At 8pm of October 8, I received a text message from [an informant] in Abu Dhabi. The informant said that drug lord Kerwin Espinosa was at a certain building [in Abu Dhabi]. I asked for more proof,” said Cam.

Cam passed on the photo evidence of Espinosa and his whereabouts to Secretary Bong Co (special assistant of President Rodrigo Duterte).

“The same information was sent to Philippine National Police Chief Director General Ronald Dela Rosa,” said Cam.

“On Sunday [October 9], Filipino policemen and [officials] from the Philippine [embassy] contacted the Abu Dhabi Police. But Interpol’s red notice was needed for Espinosa’s arrest. He was finally arrested while jogging in Corniche Beach near Corniche Road at two in the morning of October 17 [Philippine time],” recalled Cam.

Last month, Duterte issued a shoot-to-kill order against Espinosa, a suspected drug lord in charge of the narcotics syndicate in central Philippines.

His father, Mayor Rolando Espinosa, Sr, of Albuera, Leyte admitted his son’s involvement in the illegal drugs trade.