http://www.dnaindia.com/india/report-jnu-row-families-of-2001-parliament-attack-victims-demand-stringent-action-against-protesting-students-2178034
100
10
The families also threatened to protest if no action was taken against those guilty of holding an event in support of Parliament attack convict Afzal Guru on the JNU campus.

Chairman of All-India Anti-Terrorism Front Maninderjit Singh Bitta along with the kin of Parliament attack victims on Monday demanded stringent action against the students allegedly involved in the "anti-national act" in the JNU. They also threatened to protest if no action was taken against those guilty of holding an event in support of Parliament attack convict Afzal Guru on the JNU campus.

"We demand stringent action against those who had raised slogans against India, the judicial hanging of terror convict Afzal Guru, in support of Pakistan and demanded freedom of Kashmir. They have insulted the sentiments of those families whose sons, brothers or husbands have sacrificed their lives during the 2001 Parliament attack," Bitta told reporters.

He said there was a need to find out those who were supporting the students.

Also read: Delhi Police chief Bassi says Kanhaiya Kumar shouted anti-national slogans

"Has the Government become so weak that it is not able to find who among 50 students had raised pro-Pakistan slogans?" Bitta said, adding that he will meet Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh and JNU Vice Chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar along with the martyrs' family.

"We will ask the VC to expel those students and hand them over to police. Footages are in front of him and he should take action. He should not allow the JNU campus to become a hub of politics," Bitta said.

He also said if action was not taken against the guilty within a month, then he along with the kin and widows of Parliament attack victims will take out a protest march outside JNU.

"Nobody asks us how they we are doing or what problems we are facing. But from time-to-time salt is rubbed on our wounds. Fun is being made of the sacrifice of our family member and our sentiments are being insulted. Action should be taken against the students who have raised the issue of Afzal Guru," said Gangadevi, wife of Delhi Police Assistant Sub-Inspector Nanak Chand who lost his life in the Parliament attack.