https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2016/sep/25/slavery-database-britain-must-take-responsibility
20
2
“This is the story of this country… generations of people who felt the lash of bondage, the shame of servitude, the sting of segregation, but who kept on striving and hoping and doing what needed to be done so that today, I wake up every morning in a house that was built by slaves.” The most powerful speech of the Democratic convention in Philadelphia earlier this summer was made not by the party’s presidential nominee, nor the president, but by the first lady, Michelle Obama. Her words remind us of the extent to which the slave trade – and the terrible legacy it left the United States – is part of that country’s national consciousness.

Not so in Britain. Our political leaders hardly make reference to the dominant role this country played in the global slave trade. British slave traders generated immense spoils by transporting 5.5 million African slaves to its Caribbean colonies, forcing them to work in terrible conditions on plantations in Jamaica, Barbados and beyond. A new database launched last week by academics at UCL, cataloguing the details of 20,000 British slave owners, illustrates the extent to which the historic wealth of the slave trade extends its reach into modern Britain: in the Georgian architecture of cities such as London, Liverpool and Bristol; in businesses such as Greene King and the Royal and Sun Alliance; in the several recent or serving MPs with slave owners in their family history.

The extraction of this wealth came at terrible cost. Slaves were shackled and transported in appalling conditions aboard disease-ridden ships. Those who survived the journey were often treated with unspeakable physical and emotional cruelty. Countless lives were lost: by the time of abolition, the African slave population in the Caribbean stood at a small fraction of the total number of slaves who had arrived over the years.

Britain is portrayed as a benevolent benefactor rather than a country with a burden of debt

The scars are still visible across Britain’s former colonies. After abolition, former slaves were left in abject poverty, a legacy from which no country has recovered. In Jamaica, Britain’s largest slave colony, 80% of its population lacked functional literacy at the time it was granted independence in 1962. In Britain, the wealth extracted from African slaves has continued to contribute to our society flourishing long after slavery was abolished.

But unlike in the United States, the horrors of British slavery unfolded on plantations on distant shores and its legacies affect populations Britain has long washed its hands of. So our role in this dark period has been all to easy to obscure. Tony Blair was the first British prime minister to address this grim period of Britain’s past, but only after decades of political leaders ignoring it altogether. When David Cameron visited Jamaica last year, he called for Jamaica to “move on” from its past and spoke positively of Britain’s role in abolition. He neither acknowledged Britain’s role as a perpetrator, nor the fact that even the act of abolition was itself a terrible injustice. While British slave owners were paid huge amounts of compensation by the government – between £16bn and £17bn in today’s prices; 40% of government expenditure in 1834 – their slaves were forced to work for a further four years without pay in order to further compensate their owners.

Britain’s true role in the slave trade must feature more prominently in our collective history and our national consciousness: not so that our political leaders should constantly apologise for Britain’s past wrongs, or that contemporary descendants of slave traders should bear an ongoing burden of shame, but so that we view Britain’s role in the modern world in the context of our history.

Our international responsibilities cannot be understood devoid of that context. They are derived not just from the deep injustice of the structural inequalities that divide global north from global south but from the fact that in the past Britain has helped create those very inequalities.

Few would disagree with this principle in abstract. Yet it is rarely played out in concrete debates about international aid, migration and refugee policy. Too often, Britain is portrayed as a benevolent benefactor rather than a country with a burden of debt to some of the world’s poorest nations. We cannot understand our role in the world using only a sanitised version of our history.