http://www.business-standard.com/article/pti-stories/jat-stir-disrupts-road-rail-traffic-in-rohtak-jhajjar-region-116021501227_1.html
100
10
Jat stir disrupts road, rail traffic in Rohtak-Jhajjar region

Rail and road traffic was affected in Rohtak-Jhajjar region today as Jat protesters staged protest demanding reservation in government jobs under OBC category. The members of the community blocked the highways and other roads connecting Rohtak to Jhajjar, Sonipat, Panipat and Delhi. The protesters had yesterday blocked the NH-10 passing through Sampla town in Rohtak district during a rally. Haryana's main opposition party INLD also came in full support of the community as the party at a meeting of its state executive held at Sirsa today, passed a resolution favouring reservation for other communities including Jat-Sikhs, Tyagi, Ror and Bishnois. In Rohtak's Sampla town, Haryana Agriculture Minister Om Prakash Dhankhar assured the Jat protesters that he would raise their issue in the Assembly's forthcoming budget session next month. While some protesters agreed to lift the blockade, many decided to continue their protest. Rail traffic on the Rohtak-Delhi section was badly hit, ...

Rail and road traffic was affected in Rohtak-Jhajjar region today as Jat protesters staged protest demanding reservation in government jobs under OBC category.



The members of the community blocked the and other roads connecting Rohtak to Jhajjar, Sonipat, Panipat and Delhi.



The protesters had yesterday blocked the NH-10 passing through Sampla town in Rohtak district during a rally.



Haryana's main opposition party INLD also came in full support of the community as the party at a meeting of its state executive held at Sirsa today, passed a resolution favouring reservation for other communities including Jat-Sikhs, Tyagi, Ror and Bishnois.



In Rohtak's Sampla town, Agriculture Minister Om Prakash Dhankhar assured the Jat protesters that he would raise their issue in the Assembly's forthcoming budget session next month.



While some protesters agreed to lift the blockade, many decided to continue their protest.



Rail traffic on the Rohtak- section was badly hit, officials said, adding many trains had to be diverted through alternative routes.



The protesters, demanding reservation in jobs, also disrupted vehicular traffic on the Jhajjar-Rohtak road and threatened to intensify the stir if the government does not give any firm assurance.



Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who was in Rohtak today, said that the four-member committee constituted by his government on the reservation issue demanded by the community Jats in government jobs, would submit its report by March 31.



He said the government would take action on the basis of the report of the committee headed by the Chief Secretary.



"The committee was constituted after consultation with all concerned and it would submit its report after considering all aspects concerning the central and state governments and decisions of the judiciary," he said.



On February 9, the state government had formed a four-member committee comprising Chief Secretary D S Dhesi, Principal Secretary, Welfare of Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes T C Gupta, Principal Secretary (Industries) Devender Singh and a representative from the office of the Advocate General to examine the issue in detail.

(Reopens DES 48)



Earlier, a meeting with Jat leaders was fixed for June 15, but now it would be held on June 17 on request made by them, Chief Minister Khattar had said.



Members of All-India Jat Aarakshan Sangarsh Samiti have been staging dharnas at various places, mostly in Rohtak, Sonepat, Jind and Hisar districts in support of their demands - with some even sitting on fast unto death.



Three months after their violent agitation left 30 people dead, the state government has made tight security arrangement this time.



Nearly 20,000 security personnel including approximately 6,000 personnel of the Central Forces are keeping a strict vigil on the Jat agitation this time.



A special round-the-clock control room has been set up in Chandigarh to monitor the situation.



The protesters are demanding quota under the OBC category, withdrawal of cases registered against community members during the previous stir, status of martyr for those killed and jobs for their next of kin, besides compensation to the injured.

Press Trust of India