http://www.standardmedia.co.ke/article/2000191916/political-ground-has-already-shifted-kanu-leaders-tell-ruto
100
10


Updated Wed, February 17th 2016 at 00:00 GMT +3

Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto (left) and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi at a past campaign rally. They are planning parallel rallies to counter DP's two-day visit to Kericho. [PHOTO: FILE/STANDARD]

Kanu leaders have told Deputy President William Ruto that the ground has shifted politically. This comes as the DP tours Kericho County to campaign for the Jubilee candidate in the senatorial by-election.

The leaders told the DP his efforts to drum up support for Jubilee’s Aaron Cheruiyot would come to naught.

An onslaught on the Jubilee candidate by Kanu, Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto and Kenya National Union of Teachers led by Secretary General Wilson Sossion has been buoyed by the trouncing of the Jubilee candidate in Nyongores.

Governor Ruto yesterday said as the DP visits Kericho, “he should know that a wind of change is blowing through South Rift and nothing will stop it.”

“The days of dictatorship and sycophancy are over. There is nothing that can stop the new wave. We are going to work closely with Kanu to capture the Kericho senatorial seat,” he said.

He said the intermittent visits would not help the ruling party. “He is free to come for sightseeing. It is a beautiful region but he should not expect that he will sway what the voters have decided,” said Ruto.

West Pokot Senator John Lonyangapuo told the DP that the writing was on the wall that the ground had shifted against Jubilee in favour of Kanu.

“You do not leave your flock scattered and when you want them to help you, you come pretending to show them that you care. Ask yourself, who has been taking care of them?” said Mr Lonyangapuo.

He said Kanu has never left the people and it was good that they were realising it.

Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter, who alongside his Emurua-Dikir counterpart Johana Ngeno are in the forefront campaigning for Kanu candidate Paul Sang, warned the DP against visiting the region empty handed.

False Pledges

“The DP should come with solutions to the myriad issues affecting South Rift residents. He should commit the Government to implementing various development projects such as the construction of a referral hospital, roads and technical training institutes,” Mr Keter said.