http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/718599/CETA-EU-Canada-trade-deal-fail-Ireland-rejects
1053
10
Getty The Irish Senate voted against CETA

The Seanad - the Irish Senate - passed the motion to stop the country signing up to the "provisional application" of the controversial Comprehensive Economic Trade Agreement (CETA) by one vote yesterday. Sinn Féin, Labour and several Independents supported the motion put forward by Independent Alice Mary Higgins who said the pact, which has mostly been thrashed out in secret, was part of a "new generation" of trade deals. Christian democratic party, Fine Gael, voted against the opposition after its senators spoke in favour of CETA and Republican party, Fianna Fáil, abstained from the vote .

Related articles 'We WON'T negotiate' Canada refuses to budge over terms of CETA deal

It is an absolute game-changer with the potential to affect our public services, environment and policy decisions Alice Mary Higgins

Ms Higgins, whose father Michael D. Higgins is the Irish President, said the proposals for CETA are radically different from previous trade agreements and spoke of fears the agreement would give special powers to corporations to sue European governments and influence public regulation. She said: "It is an absolute game-changer with the potential to affect our public services, environment and policy decisions in a way we have not seen before."

Twitter Senator Higgins put forward the proposal to reject CETA's provisional application

CETA is a pre-cursor to the even more controversial Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP), a series of trade negotiations between the EU and the United States which are mostly being carried out in secret. Many EU member states are opposed to both CETA and TTIP but yesterday Angela Merkel said it should go head despite the opposition. Britain's international trade secretary, Liam Fox, also quietly endorsed the two trade deals this week at the Conservative Party conference.

Fine Gael Senator Dr James Reilly, who voted against CETA's opposition, argued the deal would offer good opportunities to Irish producers, small and medium enterprises (SMEs) and create more Irish jobs. He said: "We are a small, open economy and we stand to gain an awful lot more from the access to a further large market like Canada through the EU."

Getty CETA and TTIP have remained controversial across Europe

Getty The vote in the Irish Seanad was won by one vote

Fianna Fáil Senator Gerry Horkan, who abstained from the vote, said CETA would remove more than 99 per cent of tariffs between the two economies and create sizeable new market opportunities. The Irish Congress of Trade Unions and the Financial Services Union (FSU) supported the vote against CETA and called on the Dáil, the Irish Parliament's lower house equivalent to the House of Commons, to heed the advice of the Seanad to not sign up to CETA.

The EU's craziest decisions Thu, February 18, 2016 THE European Union (EU) bureaucrats have come up with some bonkers directives. Here are the top eleven unusual rules proposed by Brussels that seem too barmy to be true. Play slideshow GETTY 1 of 13 The EU legislators have gone bananas over rules and directives - about bananas. European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker and co have overseen some wacky laws. Here are the craziest:

They join a growing number of unions across Europe calling for the rejection of CETA and TTIP. David Joyce, Congress' equality and global solidarity officer, said: "Congress congratulates Senator Higgins and those who supported this motion. "We hope this will help kickstart a badly-needed debate on this proposed trade deal, which is opposed by unions across the EU and the United States."