http://classic.iol.co.za/news/world/france-calls-for-recount-of-gabon-election-results-1.2065022
100
10
AP A burned vehicle sits outside a government building after an election protest in Libreville, Gabon, Thursday Sept. 1, 2016. Gabon's newly re-elected president sought to assert authority Thursday as the presidential guard attacked the opposition candidate's party headquarters overnight, killing at least one person and injuring more than a dozen amid fiery protests that have seen hundreds detained and the internet blocked. (AP Photo/Joel Bouopda)

Paris - French Prime Minister Manuel Valls on Tuesday called for a recount of the presidential election results in the Central African nation of Gabon, which saw President Ali Bongo extend his family's 49-year rule.

Bongo, 57, won re-election by a narrow margin, with 49.80 per cent of votes, followed by his main rival Jean Ping with 48.23 per cent.

"The European observers on the ground (...) have expressed their criticism on the basis of objective facts," Valls told French radio station RTL. "Wisdom would demand a recount of the results."

France, the European Union as well as the United States already called last week on the electoral commission to publish detailed results of all polling stations.

Valls also expressed his concern for the safety of 15,000 French citizens currently in the former French colony. About 15 French citizens are currently missing in Gabon, many of whom carry dual citizenship, the minister said.

Violence broke out in oil-rich but poverty-stricken Gabon hours after the electoral commission released the results of the August 27 polls.

Opposition activists accused the government of fraud and attacked the area around the parliament in the capital, Libreville. Security forces responded by attacking the opposition's headquarters, killing two people and injuring several others.

Bongo was elected for a first term in disputed 2009 polls following the death of his father Omar Bongo Ondimba, who had ruled Gabon since 1967.

dpa

IOL on Twitter

IOL News on Facebook

Get our free IOL newsletters - subscribe here...