http://www.tribune.net.ph/headlines/go-ahead-withdraw-aid-duterte-dares-us-eu
100
10
President Rodrigo Duturte yesterday challenged the United States and the European Union (EU) – if they’re really pestered by his foul remarks – to pull out all their aid in the Philippines.

At the same time, the Chief Executive chided Vice President Leni Robredo for apparently going against his stand with regard to his international critics, insisting that the Philippine government can survive on its own without foreign assistance.

“I do not expect Obama, I do not expect the EU to understand me. Do not (try to) understand me. And If you think it’s high time for you to withdraw assistance, go ahead.We will not beg for it,” Duterte said in a speech yesterday at Camp Rafael Rodriguez in Butuan City, adding the Philippines has a dignity of its own.

“How do you look at us? Mendicants? That we go according to your whims? We will survive. We will survive as a nation. Even if there’s famine here, we will survive. And I’ll be the first one to go hungry, and the first the one to die, don’t you worry. We’ll never never compromise our dignity as a Filipino,” the President stressed.

Rodrigo, meanwhile, implied that Robredo’s statement shows how she tends to veer away from the administration’s war against illegal drugs and that, instead of being in defense of Duterte, she added fuel to the foreign observers’ negative perception about the government.

“I went overboard shouting hell. I have hurled insults at (US President Barack Obama) and the European Union. And what’s worse is that we’re threatened by our own (government) official – Leni – (Robredo) who said that we will lose international assistance,” Duterte stressed.

“You know, you choose: Pick up crumbs of the favor of other nations depending on their assistance or we make a stand that this country has to survive... that this country must see to it that the next generation is protected,” he stressed, addressing the Vice President.

Robredo is a member of Duterte’s Cabinet. As a Cabinet member, one is not seen or heard publicly going against the presidential policies. Robredo has been criticizing Duterte for sometime now.

Contradicting Duterte’s stance, Robredo stressed the importance of the country’s good foreign relations and standing in the international community, especially as the Philippines benefits from anti-poverty programs funded by international groups.

“I am worried because what’s at stake is our good relations with the international community. We have been receiving help from them and, given the circumstances, any incident now may put a strain on such relations. This is really worrisome,” she was quoted as saying.

“I am one with everyone in also wishing that the situation might not worsen. I hope that he (Duterte) improves for the better,” Robredo added.

An American senator had earlier warned that the US government may take action if the extrajudicial killings and state-sanctioned violence continue in the Philippines.

Sen. Patrick Leahy noted that the spate of killings in the Philippines as a result of Duterte’s war on drugs lack respect for international human rights commitments.

“While there are ways we can find out which units were involved in these abuses, if President Duterte’s government is unwilling to work with us, including by refusing to investigate allegations of abuses, then we are faced with a broader issue that cannot be remedied simply by withholding assistance from specific units or individuals,” he said.

The US State Department is yet to discuss with the Senate their current assistance for the Philippines which will affect their national budget for 2017.

“It may be necessary to consider further conditions on assistance to the Duterte government to ensure that US taxpayer funds are properly spent and until that government demonstrates a commitment to the rule of law,” Leahy said.



