http://www.freemalaysiatoday.com/category/nation/2016/09/28/crucial-for-opposition-to-agree-on-next-pm/
100
10
Analysts say a consensus would help the opposition parties to inspire confidence in their ability to govern.

PETALING JAYA: In order to gain the public’s confidence in their ability to govern, the opposition parties must agree on their choice of a candidate for Prime Minister, according to two political analysts.

Speaking to FMT, Awang Azman Pawi of Universiti Malaysa and Jeniri Amir of Universiti Malaysia Sarawak said a failure to come to a consensus before GE14 would reflect badly on the opposition bloc.

“They cannot hope to gain the confidence of the rakyat as long as this basic matter cannot be agreed upon,” said Awang Azman.

It was equally important, he added, for the opposition to form a shadow cabinet.

“As long as the opposition is perceived to be unsure over these two matters, the people will not believe that the parties in the bloc can work together,” he said.

Jeniri said the disagreement about the prime ministerial candidate was mainly between PKR and Parti Pribumi Bersatu Malaysia, the new party which has former PM Mahathir Mohamad as its chairman and former DPM Muhyiddin Yassin as its president.

Referring to Bersatu’s proposal for Muhyiddin to be the candidate, he said this showed that Mahathir was being consistent in his refusal to accept jailed PKR leader Anwar Ibrahim for the post.

“But if you compare Muhyiddin and Anwar, I believe that Anwar has more calibre and more leadership qualities,” he said.

Nevertheless, he added, the decision should be based on the number of seats won by PKR and Bersatu in GE14.

“I think that PKR will win more seats,” he said.

Yesterday, Gerakan Youth chief Tan Keng Liang challenged the opposition parties to decide on their prime ministerial candidate once and for all.

Tan’s statement came after DAP publicity chief Tony Pua said that Pakatan Harapan’s designated prime minister was still Anwar Ibrahim. Pua’s statement was a reaction to Mahathir’s declaration that Muhyiddin was the opposition bloc’s choice.