http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/student-who-stole-9000-tea-8911643
20
2
An architecture student stole more than £9,000 from a specialist tea shop - but said he only took cash out ‘when the till was too full’.

Saood Chaudhry, who is in his 4th year studying architecture at London Metropolitan University, worked just one day a week at specialist tea shop Whittard of Chelsea , which has more than 50 shops in the UK.

The 24-year-old worked at either the Croydon store or the one in Regent Street, but pocked the cash over a three year period between January 2012 and October 2015.

Southwark Crown Court heard last week how Chaudhry would stuff money into his pockets - hundreds of pounds on some occasions - after using the ‘abort till receipt’ option on the till after being paid in cash by customers.

Bosses set up CCTV cameras on the tills and police were called after the student was caught stuffing around £250 into his pockets on October 20 last year.

Facebook Chaudhry told cops he only removed cash from the till when it was too full

When quizzed by cops, he said that he had taken the money out because ‘the till was too full’ and that he had given the cash to a manager to put in the shop safe.

When his alibi was checked, however, he was arrested when bosses refuted his claims.

Mandy McLean, prosecuting, told the court: “When shown taking money from the till and putting money into his pocket he said he had done that because the till was full and he was taking the money out so he could give it to his manager to go in the safe.”

She said that Chaudhry, of Croydon, south London, had ‘betrayed the high degree of trust’ that his bosses had placed in him at the tea shop, which was founded in 1886.

Judge Martin Beddoe told Chaudhry he was sparing him jail, but that it would be his ‘one and only chance’, saying every time he stole from Whittard over the three year period he made ‘the same dishonest decision’

He told the thief: “More or less on each day you worked for Whittard’s since appointed in 2012 you were doing this when opportunity arose.

“I will give you this one chance, but rest assured that if you do commit any further offence like this again you are unlikely to be given any further such chance.

REX/Shutterstock Chaudry worked at the Whittard stores in Croydon and Regent Street

“This is your one chance - you better take it - you are a very lucky man.”

Chaudhry, who admitted theft by employee, was jailed for one year, suspended for two years and ordered to do 240 hours of unpaid work .

He is also due to attend a confiscation hearing next year in which he is expected to be ordered to pay back all of the £9,000 he stole.

One his LinkedIn page, Chaudhry says he is ‘dynamic and ambitious’, adding: “I am comfortable working as part of a team but also have the ability to take an authoritative role when the situation arises.”