http://www.heraldscotland.com/politics/14788448.The_Midge__Now_SNP_MP_accuses_Scots_press_of_being__99__against_independence_/
100
10
Hello and welcome to The Midge, the e-bulletin that takes a bite out of politics in Scotland and elsewhere.

Today

Front pages

Exclusive: In The Herald, UK political correspondent Kate Devlin reports on a new poll for the paper which gauges voter attitudes towards an alliance between Labour and the SNP.

Many of the papers carry a picture of Ukip MEP Steven Woolfe lying collapsed on the floor in Strasbourg after an ‘altercation’. The Mirror dubs it “Ukip’s day of shame”.

Exclusive: in the Evening Times, Hannah Rodger reports on a fight to save Lightburn hospital in Glasgow.

Gambling ads will be banned from daytime television, reports the Times.

The Telegraph and The Herald report on FM Nicola Sturgeon saying there “may well be” a case for a second EU referendum.

The FT says Chancellor Philip Hammond wants Bank of England governor Mark Carney to stay till 2021.

The Guardian reports Jeremy Corbyn’s reshuffle as an assertion of his authority.

The Sun says former Rangers player Fernando Ricksen, who has motor neurone disease, was banned from flying over fears he would not be able to operate a seatbelt.

Camley’s Cartoon

Camley is in need of a dentist after the latest revelations about delays and cost over-runs to the NHS hotline.

FFS: Five in five seconds

What’s the story? The second, live, televised US presidential debate will take place this Sunday at Washington University, St Louis. Some 83 million Americans watched the first debate.

Meet me in St Louis for another barney? It is shaping up to be that way, with Donald Trump having a lot of ground to make up after the first debate, above, in which he was perceived by some to be ill-prepared and cantankerous compared to a poised, prepared Hillary Clinton.

His weak points? Tax, and the amount he does or does not pay. Shortly after he declared in the first debate that not paying taxes “makes me smart”, the New York Times revealed he posted a loss in 1995 of more than $900m, meaning he might not have paid federal taxes for almost two decades.

Her weak points? If Trump is criticised again for his attitudes to women he could go on the offensive and attack Bill Clinton’s reputation. How would Hillary react to that?

What if I’m a bit busy Sunday, what with Antiques Roadshow, the ironing, etc, to stay up till 02.00 UK time? Alarm clocks and the Lord willing, there will be full coverage in The Midge on Monday.

Afore Ye Go

@jamieburnfield @AlanRoden Nope. Try hard never to insult anyone. But unarguable that Scottish press 99% opposed to independence. Unhealthy. — JOHN NICOLSON M.P. (@MrJohnNicolson) October 5, 2016

John Nicolson MP continues his commentary on the Scottish media. He previously called the Scottish press “lazy”. Read Scottish political editor Tom Gordon’s story here.

Only one political party in Scotland has asked me if I would be interested in working for them: the SNP. — alexmassie (@alexmassie) October 6, 2016

The Spectator's Scotland editor writes.

"At the moment I am feeling brighter, happier, and smiling as ever.”

Ukip’s Steven Woolfe, who was kept in hospital following an altercation at a meeting of his fellow MEPs in Strasbourg. Above, Mr Woolfe in March. Gareth Fuller/PA Wire

I imagine @afneil has gone straight to the #bluenun fridge after Diane Abbott's appointment as Shadow Home Secretary, that or a lie down — Richard Haines (@Rihaines) October 6, 2016

Hic! https://t.co/VIuPxNMWOz — Andrew Neil (@afneil) October 6, 2016

Or as Andra says on Dead Ringers, "DIANE ABBOTT!!!!!"

You're happy conference season is over, and then your mum tells you that Corbyn's just started a reshuffle. pic.twitter.com/9SwGnPYFcn — Tom Harris (@MrTCHarris) October 6, 2016

From former Labour MP Tom Harris

Corbyn reshuffle to take place today and tomorrow. Full details of resignations from Sunday. — HaveIGotNewsForYou (@haveigotnews) October 6, 2016

If you ask me, the most shocking news of the reshuffle so far is that Jeremy Corbyn is a Welshwoman. pic.twitter.com/aVj30uHW34 — Jamie Ross (@JamieRoss7) October 6, 2016

"What I found particularly offensive was the idea that companies would be named and shamed for the foreign workers they employ as if there was something shameful about employing workers from other countries. It is absolutely disgraceful.”

FM Nicola Sturgeon responds to a proposal by Home Secretary Amber Rudd at the Tory Party conference. Jeff J Mitchell/Getty Images.

"Theresa May is a real politician. She fed her Tory critics red meat at the very start of the party conference and in the process challenged every MP in the land to decide between sovereignty and the subservience to Brussels that a majority of the electorate – 17 million voters – have rejected.”

Praise from Mrs Thatcher’s press secretary, Sir Bernard Ingham. Stefan Rousseau - WPA Pool/Getty Images.

If Dad's Army did trade deals... https://t.co/a9gx5zOEXX — Jim Pickard (@PickardJE) October 6, 2016

“It’s rumoured that Donald Trump’s tax returns were leaked by one of Trump’s ex-wives. In other words, it could be anybody.”

Conan O’Brien. Ethan Miller/Getty Images

As one Apprentice host runs for President...another runs his craggy old eyes over a bunch of halfwits on BBC1 @ 9pm.

Good luck, @Lord_Sugar. — Piers Morgan (@piersmorgan) October 6, 2016

Broadcaster Piers Morgan sends his best wishes to Alan Sugar. The new series of The Apprentice began last night.

“Why are the British so stupid?”

A favourite Google question of Germans, according to a Europe-wide study by Search Laboratory. In Ireland a hot search topic was, “What do Scottish people look like?” Telegraph. Justin Sullivan/Getty Images

55%

President Obama’s approval rating. It has not been this high since his first year in the White House. CNN/ORC poll. Alex Wong/Getty Images

"Please stop this talent drain. You have to change the demographics of the people who are making these decisions.”

Selma star David Oyelowo said yesterday he had to leave the UK for the US because of a lack of roles for black actors. A BFI survey has found almost 60% of British films over the last 10 years failed to cast any black actors. Ian West/PA Wire.

you's my new pillow https://t.co/z5g9olWXbI — Cute Emergency (@CuteEmergency) 3 October 2016

That's it for this week, folks. Thanks for reading. See you Monday. Twitter: @alisonmrowat