http://nation.com.pk/lahore/23-Sep-2016/cj-concerned-over-climate-change
100
10
LAHORE - Lahore High Court Chief Justice Syed Mansoor Ali Shah yesterday expressed serious concerns over the apathy of federal and provincial governments over the issue of climate change.



“Coming generations will suffer if the government fails to make any effective policy to cope with this challenge” the CJ observed while hearing a petition filed by agriculturalist Asghar Leghari against climate change.



Quoting international experts, the chief justice said water will be the biggest problem of Pakistan.



“Why the government is not taking this issue seriously as water policies have also not been finalised,” the CJ asked while surprising over the negligence of the authorities concerned.



The officials of different departments were also present but they could not submit any effective policy of the government to deal with climate change.



The CJ sought details reports about funds allocated to deal with the climate change and directed both federal and provincial governments to finalise their water policies by year end.



The petitioner said that federal and provincial governments were not taking steps to develop the required resilience to climate change as per “Framework for Implementation of National Climate Change Policy, 2013”.



He presented the National Climate Change Policy (NCCP) which was issued by the Ministry of Climate Change in 2012.



According to the policy, he said Pakistan has serious climate change threats.



He said that water level was falling lower and lower which had created threat of water scarcity to Pakistan.

He said water and food security were also bigger challenges.

He requested the court to order the authorities concerned to tackle this issue by evolving an effective policy so that the coming generations could live peacefully.

The court would resume hearing by December 14.



Judicial reshuffle

The Lahore High Court Chief Justice yesterday issued order of transfer of two additional district and sessions judges.



According to the notification, ASJ Fakhir Aftab Ahmad was transferred from Sahiwal to Hasilpur while ASJ Syed Owais Ashraf Gillani was transferred from Hasilpur to Sahiwal.

The officials will resume their duties by September 26.



Meanwhile, the full court will review arrangements for celebration of 150th year of the Lahore High Court’s establishment on Saturday.

Chief Justice Syed Mansoor Ali Shah will head the full court.

All the judges of the LHC will discuss policy and plan that how 150th year of the LHC should be celebrated.

The celebrations will start in November which will continue till December 10, 2016.



Full bench formed over

Raiwind rally

Lahore High Court Chief Justice Syed Mansoor Ali Shah yesterday constituted a three-members full bench on petitions challenging PTI Raiwind rally.



Senior judge Justice Shahid Hameed Dar would head the bench while Justice Muhammad Anwaarul Haq and Justice Muhammad Qasim Khan.

Bench will hold proceedings from next week.



On September 17, a single bench of Justice Shahid Karim referred to the CJ to constitute a larger bench to hear an application.



Farooq Sattar, a local lawyer, filed an application in already pending constitutional petition against 2014 sit-in by the PTI.

Applicant counsel A K Dogar said that Imran Khan returned to the same situation he had been two years ago as he makes hateful speeches generating discord and confrontation among different sections of the society.



He stated that Imran Khan again had started asking the prime minister to step down in wake of Panama leaks about offshore companies.

He prayed the court to stop Imran Khan from launching unconstitutional activity of gherao of Raiwind residence of prime minister or sit-in paralyzing the system, generating divisive tendencies among different sections of the people of the country.

