http://www.ibtimes.com/supergirl-season-2-spoilers-kevin-smith-meets-melissa-benoist-mehcad-brooks-set-cw-2414998
100
10
Kevin Smith won’t be directing his “Supergirl” episode until next month, but he made a surprise visit on the set of the CBS-turned-CW series on Monday, Sept. 12.

As Smith revealed on his latest Instagram post, he and the crew of “The Flash” were on their way to grab lunch when they bumped into Melissa Benoist (Kara/Supergirl) and Mehcad Brooks (James Olsen) on the Vancouver set of “Supergirl.”

“Driving to lunch with my @cwtheflash crew and we spotted the fine folks who make @supergirlcw on the mean streets of #VanGroovy!” he wrote on the social media site, alongside a photo collage showing him and Brooks posing for a picture, and Benoist apparently shooting a scene.

“I was able to say a quick hi to @melissabenoist but I got to pal around for a red hot minute with Superman’s pal #JamesOlsen - aka, @mehcadbrooks!” the 46-year-old filmmaker continued. “I come back to #Vancouver to direct an ep of #Supergirl next month but I still fan-girled out seeing the Super set of National City... #KevinSmith #mehcadbrooks #melissabenoist.”

It was announced during the DC TV portion of the CW panel at the 2016 Television Critics Association summer press tour last month that Smith is set to direct a Season 2 episode of “Supergirl.” Smith confirmed the news on Twitter, writing: “You will believe a man can cry! Cannot wait to direct an ep of @TheCWSupergirl! Thank you @GBerlanti [Greg Berlanti] & @AJKreisberg [Andrew Kreisberg]!”

While the exact episode number of his directorial gig is yet to be announced, Smith revealed on his YouTube show “Fatman on Batman” that the episode he is directing is titled “Supergirl Lives” — which is actually a nod to his canceled movie, “Superman Lives.”

“Andrew Kreisberg told me that the name of the episode is ‘Supergirl Lives.’ I’m gonna cry talking about this,” Smith said on his YouTube show. “The name of the script I wrote back in 1996 was called ‘Superman Lives.’ That’s what they do over at that f--king Berlanti-verse. They make magic.”

Smith is currently in Vancouver for the shoot of “The Flash” Season 3, Episode 7, which he is directing.

“Supergirl” Season 2 premieres on Monday, Oct. 10, at 8 p.m. on The CW, while “The Flash” Season 3 premiere airs on Tuesday, Oct. 4, at 8 p.m. ET.

Photo: Getty Images/Jesse Grant