http://www.asianews.network/content/13-killed-thai-boat-tragedy-28316
100
10
Ayutthaya, Thailand (The Nation/ANN) - A boat being used for a religious trip capsized in the Chao Phraya River Sunday afternoon, claiming at least 13 lives, injuring 19 others and leaving dozens of others unaccounted for.

The accident took place around 4pm in Ayutthaya province, when the overcrowded Sombatmongkonchai boat smashed into a pole in front of the Sanam Chai Temple after avoiding a collision with a large cargo boat.

The vessel, designed to carry 50 passengers, had more than 150 passengers on board at the time of the accident, according to some estimates.

“Many passengers tried to jump out of the boat and scrambled towards the shore, which was about three to five metres away,” Annop Kudeephan, a 50-year-old survivor, recounted.

He estimated that the boat must have been carrying more than 100 passengers at the time of the accident.

All the passengers had attended an annual Muslim ritual at the Takia Yokin Mosque in Ayutthaya earlier in the day. The police said rescue workers rushed to help passengers.

Among the deceased was a boy as young as three years old.

Ayutthaya Deputy Governor Rawat Prasong said rescue workers had difficulty searching for victims because the water currents were very strong. At the time of the report going to press, the search operations had been halted because of heavy rain.

An informed source disclosed that the annual event at the Takia Yokin Mosque was a big one, with participants booking about 20 boats for the religious ritual.

Measuring about 5 metres wide and 27 metres long, the Sombatmongkonchai boat was registered under the name of 'Sunthorn Phansuathong'. An informed source said this was the second boat accident that had occurred involving people attending the Muslim ritual.

“About five or six years ago, a boat sank because of overloading,” the source said.

Relevant authorities were Sunday trying to locate the leader of the Muslim group travelling on the boat.

The boat driver was identified as Wirat Chaisirikul, 68. As of last night, Wirat’s fate was not known.

Marine Department secretary-general Sorasak Saensombat Sunday said a crane boat was brought to pull the capsized boat to the shore. He believed many people were still trapped on the boat. However, he believed there might have been a shortage of rescue equipment on board and driving the vessel might have been difficult amid the currents.