http://www.philstar.com/headlines/2016/08/24/1616727/jv-suspended-90-days
100
10
MANILA, Philippines – The Sandiganbayan has suspended Sen. Joseph Victor Ejercito over a graft case involving the purchase of P2.1 million worth of firearms when he was mayor of San Juan City.

In a six-page resolution issued yesterday, the Sandiganbayan ordered Ejercito suspended for 90 days from his position as senator and from any public office he may now “or hereafter” be holding.

The anti-graft court said the suspension would commence from the time Ejercito receives the resolution, unless he files a motion for reconsideration within the period prescribed by law.

Aside from the senator, ordered suspended were city administrator Ranulfo Dacalos, legal officer Romualdo delos Santos and documentation and compliance special assistant Lorenza Ching.

The suspension stemmed from the respondents’ approval of a P2.1-million firearms deal, using the city government’s calamity funds in February 2008.

State prosecutors said Ejercito approved the purchase even as the city was not under a state of calamity.

Headlines ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1

Anti-graft investigators said no bidding was conducted and the respondents gave unwarranted benefits to the supplier.

Ejercito was saddened by the suspension, but maintained he did nothing wrong and would be willing to do it again should he be faced with the same situation.

“I wish to make it clear that I respect the order of the court. I am fighting this legal battle without delay as deep in my heart, I know I did the right thing and that justice in the end will be on my side,” he said.

As then mayor of San Juan City, he said it was his duty to approve the purchase of firearms, noting the crime situation at that time.

“Our police force needed more than moral support as it urgently needed firepower against criminals who virtually held the city under siege,” he said.

“I do not regret such decision as it was my bounden duty and responsibility to protect the well-being of the city residents,” he said.

Senate President Aquilino Pimentel III said the implementation of Ejercito’s suspension is not automatic, as he confirmed that his office has received a copy of the Sandiganbayan order.

“I have to read the copy first, but I believe from my experience in my legal practice this is not automatic. Sen. JV should still report to work tomorrow and in the subsequent days,” Pimentel said.

Meanwhile, the senator’s father Manila Mayor Joseph Estrada said Ejercito should be lauded for his decision to strengthen the campaign against crime.

Estrada told The STAR that he prioritized peace and order during his term as San Juan mayor for 17 years. He said his son merely emulated his action meant to protect the lives and property of his constituents.

He said he sees nothing wrong with Ejercito’s decision to use the calamity funds, noting the city police lacked firearms.

“Not a single centavo went to JV’s pockets. The money was spent for the purchase of firearms so the police could strengthen the campaign against crime. What’s wrong with that?” Estrada asked.

“I was given the TOYM award when I was mayor of San Juan because of my campaign against crime,” he said, referring to the Ten Outstanding Young Men award. – With Paolo Romero, Jose Rodel Clapano, Non Alquitran