https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/worldviews/wp/2016/09/07/europe-studies-claims-of-american-invaders-they-are-clawed-and-delicious/
100
10


A lobster caught off South Bristol, Maine. (Associated Press)

Today’s special: American lobster in European hot water.

The European Union’s Scientific Forum on Invasive Alien Species announced Tuesday that there was sufficient scientific evidence to push ahead with a review of Sweden’s request to declare the American lobster an invasive species that threatens native lobsters and other marine life.

It could mean a ban on the clawed cousins from across the pond.

Now, before European foodies go off the deep end, the whole spat is based on only a handful of American lobsters found in Swedish waters. And any final decision — not expected before April — will take into account potential fallout on international trade. That includes weighing the risks of possible retaliatory bans against Europe by the United States and Canada, which stand to lose a lobster market valued at up to $200 million by some estimates.

Overall, it is little more than a side dish compared with other transatlantic trade issues, such as last week’s E.U. order for Ireland to recover up to $14.5 billion in taxes from tech giant Apple. But out in places like the Gulf of Maine or the coast of Nova Scotia, the lobster showdown is a very big deal.

“Is this really about invasion of a species or invasion of [an] economy?” said Beth Casoni, executive director of the Massachusetts Lobstermen’s Association.

[Don’t eat that shrimp!]

Casoni and others argue that European lobster fleets are worried about competition from their rivals in North America, where the catch is bigger and the global exporting network is well established. The two lobster species are very similar — with just slight variations in natural shell color and size of the tail — and taste equally delicious.

It’s also not entirely clear how the American lobsters, known as Homarus americanus, made it into Swedish waters to mingle with their European mates, called Homarus gammarus. Some of the 32 lobsters found last year still had rubber bands on their claws — which are applied in captivity — raising suspicion that they either escaped from an export shipment or were intentionally set free.

“It’s not like there is an army of Homarus americanus marching around in European waters,” Casoni said. “It’s a very small group that looks like they ended up there because someone put them there.”

Sweden, for its part, paints a picture of a clash of crustaceans. It claims that the Homarus americanus could somehow gain a foothold in European seas and spell the end of the Homarus gammarus branch through interbreeding.

“Like a lob-zilla or something,” Casoni said.

In Canada, the Fisheries and Oceans department has called the Swedish argument “one-sided” and noted that American lobsters have occasionally turned up in Europe for decades without threatening the local species.

[How pests get a free ride with global trade]

And Robert S. Steneck, a University of Maine marine scientist, told the Associated Press that winter ocean temperatures along many of the lobster habitats in Europe are too warm for American lobsters to reproduce.

Issues over invasive species around the world are not new. Zebra mussels, native to Eastern Europe, now clog the Great Lakes after being introduced from the ballast water of ships in the late 1980s. America’s voracious black bullhead catfish has made its way into European waters in recent decades, possibly in shipments of live carp.

The decision Tuesday by the E.U. Scientific Forum on Invasive Alien Species gave no hint on how the debate could progress, saying only that it was “a preliminary opinion on a purely scientific risk assessment.”

Yet the North American lobster defenders are taking no chances. The U.S. senators from Maine, Susan Collins (R) and Angus King (I), have led a push to lobby E.U. officials. In March, the senators, along with Reps. Chellie Pingree (D-Maine) and Bruce Poliquin (R-Maine), sent a letter to Secretary of State John F. Kerry appealing for some diplomatic muscle.

“We urge you to engage in immediate efforts to ensure the continuation of safe and responsible import of live Maine lobsters, consistent with the EU’s World Trade Organization obligations,” they wrote. “Since only a small number of Maine lobsters have been found in foreign waters, we believe regulators should take a more finely tuned approach before calling this an ‘invasion.’ ”