http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3772957/EUs-Juncker-says-Apple-tax-decision-clearly-based-facts-rules.html
100
10
The decision to make Apple pay £11billion in unpaid taxes was not an attack on the US, EU chief Jean-Claude Juncker said today.

EU antitrust regulators last week ordered the tech giant to pay the staggering sum to the Irish government after ruling that a special scheme to route profits through the country was illegal state aid.

Apple's Chief Executive Tim Cook dismissed the ruling as 'total political crap' and vowed to fight the landmark ruling - the biggest tax bill imposed on a firm outside the US.

Jean-Claude Juncker, president of the European Commission, said the decision to make Apple pay £11billion in unpaid taxes was not an attack on the US

Apple's Chief Executive Tim Cook last week dismissed the ruling as 'total political crap' and vowed to fight the landmark ruling - the biggest tax bill imposed on a firm outside the US

He said: 'When you are accused of something that is so foreign to your values, it brings out an outrage in you. That's how we feel.

'Apple has always been about doing the right thing, never the easy thing.'

France and Germany have spoken out in support of the decision.

Today Mr Juncker said the ruling was clearly based on facts and was 'not a decision against the United States of America', pointing to the fact that EU Commission investigations on taxation had mainly targeted European companies.

The European Commission claimed the Irish government gave Apple a 'sweetheart deal' to funnel its profits through the country without having to pay the appropriate level of tax

The decision comes amidst a coordinated global initiative to crack down on tax evasion by multinational companies, spearheaded by the Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD).

Mr Juncker's comments appeared designed to reassure US lawmakers who fear the move by the European Commission would mean more US profits flowing into EU tax coffers.

The Apple tax bill dwarfs the previous EU record for a state aid case - €1.3 billion for the Nurburgring race track in Germany.