http://www.4-traders.com/news/Oil-Prices-Fall-on-Dollar-Strength-Continued-Concerns-About-Glut--23032374/
20
2
By Nicole Friedman and Kevin Baxter

NEW YORK -- Oil prices fell Friday on a stronger dollar and skepticism that a large drop in U.S. inventories last week marks the beginning of a trend.

But prices still posted a weekly gain following the biggest one-week stockpile decline in about 17 years and indications that some major producers are willing to cooperate on a production freeze.

U.S. oil for October delivery settled down $1.74, or 3.7%, at $45.88 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Prices rose 3.2% this week.

Brent, the global benchmark, fell $1.98, or 4%, to $48.01 a barrel on ICE Futures Europe. The contract rose 2.5% on the week.

Prices surged Thursday after the Energy Information Administration said U.S. crude supplies fell by 14.5 million barrels last week, the biggest weekly drawdown since 1999.

Crude inventories around the world stand near record levels, keeping prices subdued, and traders are closely watching inventories for signs that the global glut of crude is shrinking.

But last week's large drop was viewed as an outlier by traders and money managers due to bad weather that halted some production and prevented imports from arriving in the Gulf Coast.

"Last week's storm caused production disruptions and import delays," said Norbert Rücker, head of commodities research for Zurich-based bank Julius Baer, in a note. "Gulf of Mexico oil and gas operations have largely resumed and tankers are queuing for offloading. The storage decrease is set to be a one-off, likely offset by large increases next week."

A strengthening dollar also weighed on oil prices Friday. The WSJ Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against a basket of others, recently rose 0.5%. A stronger dollar can make oil, which is priced in dollars, more expensive for buyers using foreign currencies.

Oil prices rose early in the week after Saudi Arabia and Russia signed an oil-cooperation agreement, though the two countries didn't commit to production limits.

The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and Russia are continuing to talk about a possible production freeze ahead of a meeting on the subject in Algeria later this month. But any deal would have to overcome major obstacles. Many countries already are producing near record-high levels, and Iran has refused to consider a production cap until its production grows further.

"Increasingly, people recognize that any deal you reach is about optics, " said John Saucer, vice president of research and analysis at Mobius Risk Group in Houston. "And they may not reach one."

Morgan Stanley said in a note Friday that the bank's forecast for Brent prices to average $51 a barrel in 2017 could be too high, as the market looks more likely to remain oversupplied into next year.

"Producers are adapting to low prices and beginning to invest again," the bank said in a note. "As long as the market remains oversupplied, we would expect oil to remain in a similar $35-55 trading range as it has most of this year."

Gasoline futures settled down 5.54 cents, or 3.9%, at $1.3611 a gallon. Prices rose 4.6% this week.

Diesel futures fell 5.18 cents, or 3.5%, to $1.4304 a gallon. The contract rose 1.5% on the week.

Write to Nicole Friedman at nicole.friedman@wsj.com and Kevin Baxter at Kevin.Baxter@wsj.com