http://www.express.co.uk/news/uk/710302/brexit-result-beyond-reproach-electoral-commission-eu-referendum
100
10
GETTY Voters said they were satisfied the referendum was run properly

Research showed that 77 per cent of adults were "confident" that the national vote was "well run". And nearly two thirds felt they did have enough information to make the right decision about the country's future, the report said. The verdict from the Electoral Commission was last night being seen as a hammer blow to defeated Remain campaigners who have claimed the vote was skewed and are calling for a re-run.

Officials at the commission, the country's elections watchdog which was responsible for organising the vote, have been studying the way the referendum was carried out to ensure the process was administered properly and see if any lessons can be learned for future polls. Their report described the vote to leave the EU as a "a great exercise in democratic participation". It also acknowledged the vast scale of the vote with a record electorate of 46.5million and a total of 33.5million votes cast.

GETTY Nearly two thirds of people said they had enough information to make a decision

I thought the Electoral Commission ran the referendum very well Tory MP Peter Bone

Jenny Watson, chair of the Electoral Commission and Chief Counting Officer for the EU Referendum, said: “The successful delivery of the referendum was thanks to the over 100,000 members of staff who were working in around 41,000 polling stations across the UK and Gibraltar. "Voters would not have seen the scale and complexity of the efforts that went into planning the poll from months before the date but I am grateful for all their work which makes democracy a reality for all of us. “Looking ahead to future referendums, it is evident that the restrictions on publicly funded promotional activity could usefully be clarified ahead to make clear which activities are restricted, and when the restrictions apply, as well as who is responsible for enforcing the restrictions, and what the penalties would be for any breach of the restrictions.”

GETTY Owen Smith and Tim Farron have both called for a repeat referendum

Polling data in the report found that 77 per cent of voters were "very or fairly confident" that the referendum was well run. A total of 87 per cent were "generally satisfied" with the process of registering to vote. A clear majority of voters (62 per cent) "felt they had enough information to make an informed decision on how to vote" compared with just 28 per cent who disagreed. But the report also said more than 1,000 members of the public had complained to the Electoral Commission about campaign material. And just over half (52 per cent) thought the conduct of the campaigns was not "fair and balanced".

The report added: "Following the announcement of the referendum result there continued to be significant public commentary about the 'truthfulness' of certain campaign arguments, including from politicians on both sides of the referendum debate. "Because of the Electoral Commission’s independent role in running and regulating UK referendums, it would be inappropriate for the Commission to be drawn into political debate by regulating the truthfulness of referendum campaign arguments. "We would, however, be happy to contribute to any future debate in this area."

What countries are in the EU? Wed, September 14, 2016 In the wake of Brexit, we look at the 28 member states that are in the European Union. Play slideshow Getty 1 of 29 Countries that are in the European Union

Some Remain supporters, including the Lib Dem leader Tim Farron and Labour leadership contender Owen Smith, have called for a second referendum to be held before Britain formally quits the EU. They claim voters were misled in the campaign and should be given a chance for a rethink. But Tory MP Peter Bone last night said the Electoral Commission's research showed the public had confidence in the referendum result. He said: "I thought the Electoral Commission ran the referendum very well and there was plenty of information provided.

GETTY People still doubt the truthfulness of what some of the politicians said

"If anything, the information was biased towards Remain because of the propaganda leaflet the Government put out. "This was a national debate which people got really interested in. I thought it was a huge success and a great democratic process." He condemned calls for a second referendum as "absurd". The Electoral Commission report showed that the referendum cost the taxpayers a total of £33.7million.