http://www.dailymail.co.uk/money/bills/article-3839777/Mystery-shopping-didn-t-make-rich-got-snow-monkeys-Japan-hear-revelations.html
100
10
Our report last month on mystery shopping – people going undercover to check on the quality of the service offered by retailers – provoked a huge response from readers. TOBY WALNE, an erstwhile 'mystery shopper', shares their experiences, good and bad.

Snow monkeys in Japan: Helen Greene has travelled the world mystery shopping

A secret army of half a million spies is currently poking around Britain’s shopping aisles and lurking in restaurant corners checking on customer service standards.

The chances are that you have come across one of these undercover agents as 1,500 are out pacing our high streets at any one time. But because they look like everyday shoppers rather than shadowy figures in detectives’ raincoats they are hard to spot.

Last month, The Mail on Sunday joined this army, only to discover that snooping around the high street can be both demanding and a personal finance disaster. After checking some local shops, pubs and even a bookmaker in my home town of Bishop’s Stortford in Hertfordshire, I found that after costs my rate of pay was a measly £1.57 an hour.

In fact, the company I completed the tasks for – Market Force Information – paid me nothing, after discovering I was a double-agent who had broken its confidentiality contract.

Here, we share the tips of those readers who are also insiders, as well as business experts, to find out what really goes on in this mysterious world. Readers’ names have been changed to protect their identity.

EARN POCKET MONEY

The chance of earning a decent living from mystery shopping is negligible for most people – at best it will supplement a main income.

The stark reality is that despite industry boasts that you can earn £40,000 a year, the likelihood is that after costs you will earn far less than the minimum wage of £7.20 an hour.

Mystery shopper Karen Brown, 59, says: ‘After speaking to others, I found I was not alone in earning only a pittance. The reality is you have to treat it more like a hobby that pays pocket money rather than a serious business opportunity.

‘I quit a couple of years ago – not because I wanted to but because it did not make me any money.’

Fun in store: Missions can provide the odd thrill – one reader even ended up in Tokyo

Fellow undercover shopper Gemma Ware, 28, from Bristol, agrees it is an activity that will only earn you a few pounds – and the odd free meal. Certainly not enough to survive on.

She says: ‘I only need to do the odd bit of mystery shopping as I have a part-time job as a supply teacher. But what I like about it is there is no tedious job interview and no boss looking over your shoulder. You just get on with it.’

Jill Spencer is vice president of trade body the Mystery Shopping Providers Association Europe. She insists that mystery shopping can provide a serious career opportunity and says: ‘It is true that 90 per cent of those in the industry work part-time – but it can be turned into a career.’

Spencer, who is also a director at mystery shopping firm React Surveys in Cirencester, Gloucestershire, adds: ‘It may demand a hard-working structured approach – perhaps completing more than a dozen tasks a day. But a senior, full-time mystery shopper can earn between £20,000 and £40,000 a year.’

Exposed: The Mail on Sunday's report when Toby Walne went on three shopping tasks

SEEK OUT ADVENTURE

Most mystery shopping is unexciting – for example, counting the number of cheese and ham sandwiches on a cafe display shelf.

Yet those willing to sign up to a number of mystery shopping firms and work hard may eventually be offered an opportunity to do something more adventurous.

Helen Greene, 38, from Dulwich, South-East London, has travelled the world mystery shopping. Her favourite trips have been to Japan and The Bahamas.

Helen says: ‘You are never going to get rich as a mystery shopper – I do it for spare cash as fortunately I also run a small business with my husband.

‘My advice is to enjoy it for the occasional thrills it provides. I didn’t pay for my flight to Tokyo.

‘I then fulfilled a lifetime ambition by travelling to Nagano by train and seeing the snow monkeys bathe in the hot springs.’

Helen says there is no free lunch – or flight – when it comes to mystery shopping. She was required to complete two 3,000-word questionnaires on the flights that took four hours each to write up.

This included taking notes on a range of details – everything from the number of people in a check-in queue to whether an air stewardess smiled when asking if she wanted an in-flight drink.

Despite the complimentary flights, Helen says the extra costs – such as transport to and from the airport, hotels and meals – were not covered. This meant her trip cost her £1,000.

Buying in: Jon Gutteridge runs a forum for shoppers

CUT COSTS

One of the biggest gripes for mystery shoppers is not just the poor rates of pay – but the costs incurred in completing the tasks.

Gemma Ware says she often picks local jobs to save on transport costs – and recommends using a smartphone to complete quick and easy tasks.

She uses apps such as Streetspotr and Task 360 to find jobs when she is free – and receives £5 or £10 for just a few minutes work. She also files instant product reviews via the app VoxPopMe that pay her up to £2 a time.

Another favourite is the Field Agent app, which she used to get paid up to £10 a time to ensure promotional material is correctly installed in stores.

Spencer says: ‘There is a huge variance in what firms pay. So, if you are not happy, look at what other companies are prepared to offer. Some firms include the cost of petrol and accommodation on specific tasks.’

Mystery shopping companies worth looking at include ABa Quality Monitoring, GfK, React Surveys and Grass Roots.

Jon Gutteridge, 35, from Leeds, is founder of website The Money Shed – which provides a mystery shopper forum and publishes blogs on how to achieve your target earnings as well as meeting the taxman’s requirements.

He says: ‘Website forums offer a great place for mystery shoppers to compare notes and cut costs.’

Despite the pitiful pay that is often on offer, it is still important to tell Revenue & Customs about the extra money you earn. This may require you to complete a self-assessment tax return. Further information and forms can be found at gov.uk.

Secret: But you must have the confidence to occasionally stand up and reveal your identity in certain stores

THINK LIKE A SECRET AGENT

Watching old James Bond movies might get you in the mood to be a mystery shopper, but there are more important preparations.

The first step is to prove your competence in the English language. Companies such as Market Force Information require prospective mystery shoppers to pass online tests in grammar, spelling and comprehension. Taking the form of a multiple choice examination, they take at least half an hour to complete.

Gemma Ware says: ‘I have suggested mystery shopping to a few friends, but they have been put off by the grammar tests.

‘You certainly have to show an aptitude for reading and writing.’

In addition, she points out that you must have an eye for detail and some acting skills.

You must also have the confidence to occasionally stand up and reveal your identity in certain stores.

She adds: ‘You must be well prepared before going on a job, ensuring you remember to complete all the checks.

‘This can be anything from finding out the name of the person serving you to working out the layout of the shop.

‘The hardest part is plucking up the courage to do the task.

‘But once you have started you grow in confidence and ability. Occasionally, I have been required to reveal that I was a mystery shopper. It is not pleasant to be exposed as a spy snooping on staff.’

Once a task is completed you must file a report – often complete with photos – usually the same day. These can sometimes take an hour to complete and you only get paid if the report has been completed satisfactorily.

Spencer says: ‘People tell me mystery shopping must be a dream if you love shopping. But the opposite is true. There is no opportunity to dawdle and you must manage your time well.

‘An eye for detail is essential and you need a good memory because you may have more than 20 questions to complete about how your shop went. You must be disciplined and focused.’

SHARE NETWORK OPPORTUNITIES

The internet is awash with mystery shopper opportunities – but it is hard to know where to start if you want to go out spying for a reputable firm.

The Mystery Shopping Providers Association Europe imposes a code of conduct on members. It does not accept companies which demand that shoppers pay a fee or those that deduct payments even when a mystery shopper has completed a job as specified.

Spencer says: ‘Our code means mystery shoppers must be treated fairly and paid promptly. Some companies pay more than others – or offer extra perks, such as free meals and goods.

‘Planning is key if you are to make a success of mystery shopping. This includes choosing routes carefully to cut down on travel costs and following guidelines as closely as possible to avoid any dispute over payment.’

The association has dozens of members worldwide – offering a range of pay rates and jobs. ABa Quality Monitoring, GfK, Grass Roots, Market Force Information and React Surveys all operate in the UK.

Mystery shoppers should also chat online to fellow shoppers who are willing to share experiences and recommend companies.

Gutteridge says: ‘Talking to others who have tried tasks is the best way to learn – it cuts through the marketing hype and noise of the companies.

‘For many people mystery shopping is more about fun than financial reward.

‘By engaging with others you not only get a better feel for what the providers are like, but you also find out more about possible jobs that may appeal to you.’