https://article.wn.com/view/2016/09/20/Why_India_needs_cool_heads_after_Kashmir_attack/
100
10
Are India and Pakistan facing a war-like situation after militants attacked an army base in Indian-administered Kashmir on Sunday, killing 18 soldiers? India has blamed the attack on a Pakistan-based group, despite denials from Islamabad .

WASHINGTON: The Obama administration on Wednesday affirmed its support to India on the issue of cross-border terrorism, while putting Pakistan on notice for its failure to...

The terrorist attack on an Indian Army base in north Kashmir’s Uri by Pakistan-based terror groups has rekindled a long-standing debate in the country on how to deal with...

There are growing demands from India's military for a robust riposte to Pakistan, after Sunday's dawn attack by four gunmen which saw 17 soldiers killed at the army's Uri...

(Source: Ministry of External Affairs of the Republic of India ) Official Spokesperson, Shri Vikas Swarup: Good evening friends. Welcome to the weekly press briefing. I...

Transcript of Weekly Media Briefing by Official Spokesperson (September 22, 2016) (Ministry of External Affairs of the Republic of India)

Related News

World War 3 Tensions In Kashmir: India Accuses Pakistan Of Exporting Terrorism, Pakistan Displays Military Readiness Even though it is being reported that conspiracy theorists are speculating that World War 3 is just about ready to erupt between the two Asian nuclear powers India and Pakistan, events within the past week actually indicate that the reality of war between the two nations is indeed close, although whether or not it might lead to World War 3 is still the province of... Inquisitr





Step back from the brink Two days after the Uri attack which killed seventeen jawans and injured many others, South Asia is agog with anticipation of what next. The signals from New Delhi have so far left nobody in doubt as to the next course of action, but all are curious as to what form this action takes. The central government has so far spoken tough. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has warned “that... Kashmir Observer





After Attack on Indian Army, U.S. Response to Crisis Must Focus on Pakistani Support of Terror (The Heritage Foundation) (Source: The Heritage Foundation ) September 21, 2016 | Issue Brief on International Conflicts By Lisa Curtis On Sunday, four militants attacked an Indian army post in Uri near the Line of Control (LoC) that divides Pakistani and Indian Kashmir, killing 18 Indian soldiers and provoking a crisis between the two nuclear-armed states. The U.S. must pressure Pakistan to take... Public Technologies





A new Cold War: the nuclear threat escalating in Kashmir Improvising on an old proverb, a former Indian prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee used to say, "You can choose your friends but you cannot choose your neighbours. So you must learn to live with them." India and Pakistan have struggled to do that over the years, and at the best of times their relations are on a knife's edge. But even by these standards, the latest crisis... The National



