http://www.thedailystar.net/country/zakia-fighting-life-rangpur-hospital-1283056
20
2
Brutally stabbed by a rejected stalker on Wednesday, eighth grader Zakia Sultana, 14, is fighting for life at Rangpur Medical College Hospital.

The victim, earlier admitted to Bochaganj Upazila Health Complex in Dinajpur, was sent to Dinajpur Medical College Hospital, and then to Rangpur Medical College Hospital as her condition deteriorated.

"We have referred Zakia to the orthopaedic hospital at Shyamoli in the capital as her condition is critical. Her right hand may require amputation. Never before have I seen such serious stab injuries," said Dr Shariful Islam, consultant of surgery at Rangpur Medical College Hospital.

In the face of threat by the alleged attacker, Ibrahim Ali, 21, of Sugar Millpara in Bochaganj municipality, Zakia, a student of Setabganj Ideal Academy in Bochaganj, and resident of Labour Linepara in the municipality, earlier stopped going to school, said family members.

Zakia's father Jamshed Ali is a jawan of Border Guard Bangladesh, now working in Satkhira.

Teachers and students of Setabganj Ideal Academy besieged the office of Bochaganj upazila nirbahi officer (UNO) yesterday, demanding capital punishment of Ibrahim Ali who entered Zakia's house and stabbed her indiscriminately on Wednesday morning.

They also demanded trial of the accused under the Speedy Trial Tribunal.

The students and teachers holding placards stayed in front of the office of UNO Rabiul Hasan for about an hour to press for the demand.

They also demanded creating a safe environment so students can go to school safely. Later, they handed over a memorandum to the UNO in this regard.

The agitating students left the spot around 4:30pm following an assurance by the UNO of taking steps to meet the demand.

Police have arrested Ibrahim in connection with the incident on Wednesday noon, said Habibul Haq Prodhan, officer-in-charge (OC) of Bochaganj Police Station.

On December 25 last year, the victim's father filed a general diary (GD) with Bochaganj Police Station after receiving a death threat to Zakia from Ibrahim, family members said, adding that earlier they rejected stalker Ibrahim's marriage proposal to Zakia.

As police remained inactive in spite of filing GD Zakia stopped attending classes.