http://news2.onlinenigeria.com/news/general/506339-justice-abang-vows-to-jail-anyone-that-flouts-his-orders-pdp-convention.html
100
10
Home | News | General | Justice Abang vows to jail anyone that flouts his orders PDP convention

By Ikechukwu Nnochiri

ABUJA – The internal crisis rocking the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, worsened yesterday, as the Abuja Division of the Federal High Court issued an order of interlocutory injunction barring the party from conducting its National Convention until September 7.

The restraining order followed a motion on notice that was filed by factional chairman of the party, Senator Ali Modu Sheriff and seven others, challenging the legality of the convention scheduled to hold in Port Harcourt today.

In a bench ruling he delivered yesterday, Justice Okon Abang, not only aborted the scheduled convention, but also prohibited the party from sponsoring any candidate to be elected into any of its national offices, pending the determination of the substantive suit before him.

Justice Abang equally issued an order of interlocutory injunction restraining the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, from monitoring any convention of the PDP, be it tomorrow or on any other date, until issues surrounding the leadership of the party, which is the subject matter of the suit before the high court, are fully resolved.

He directed the Inspector General of Police, Mr. Ibrahim Idris, to enforce the orders until all the applications pending in the suit are disposed off.

Besides, Justice Abang asked the plaintiffs (Sheriff and seven others) to issue and serve Form 48 on all the defendants in the matter, even as he vowed to take disciplinary measures against any of them that fail to comply with the interlocutory orders.

“Failure to comply with the orders will attract disciplinary action against any of the parties, so far the plaintiffs know what to do”, Justice Abang held, saying the decision he took yesterday was in the best interest of justice.

Justice Abang however refused prayer-three in the motion on notice on the premise that the verdict of Justice Ibrahim Buba of the Lagos Division of the court, which had on May 24, voided the National Caretaker Committee that was constituted by the PDP, is still subsisting.

Justice Buba had in his ruling, nullified the convention where Senator Ahmed Makarfi emerged as the Acting Chairman of the party, even as he gave Sheriff the nod to remain on seat.

Meanwhile, before he adjourned hearing on the substantive suit till September 7, Justice Abang, berated the Makarfi-led faction for fanning the embers of “judicial anarchy” in the country, by attempting to pitch him against Justice Ibrahim Watila of the Port Harcourt Division of the Federal High Court.

Tracing the history of the case, Justice Abang insisted that he was the first person that the Chief Judge of the High Court, Justice Ibrahim Auta assigned the case-file relating to PDP leadership dispute.

He noted that whereas the CJ assigned the case to him on July 4, the plaintiffs filed an interim motion on July 20 to stop the planned convention of the party, contending that it was being spearheaded by persons unknown to law as PDP national officers.

The judge further noted that on July 27, Makafi and six others, applied to be joined as interested parties in the suit, a request he accordingly granted on August 15 by admitting them into the matter as the 3rd to 9th defendants.

He said that on Monday when the defendants were joined in the suit, the court gave them the leave to file all the relevant processes, including a counter-affidavit in opposition to the suit.

However, he said instead of filing a counter-affidavit, counsel to the 3rd to 9th defendants, Mr. Ferdinand Orbih, rather chose to not only appeal against the interim order of injunction, but also challenged the jurisdiction of the court to hear the suit.

Justice Abang maintained that the defendants were bound by choice made by their counsel, saying the defendants, by failing to file a counter-affidavit, thus conceded to claim of the plaintiffs.

Meantime, citing section 291 of the 1999 Constitution, Justice Abang maintained that Justice Watila of the Port Harcourt Division of the court ought to have handed-off the suit the Makarfi-led group filed through Senator Ben Obi.

“The issue of whether or not the convention should be held was first raised by the plaintiff and the CJ assigned it to this court on July 4.

“Therefore, the issue having been assigned to this court, no order division of this court ought to be seized with the same matter. Even though I don’t have the powers to set aside the orders of another court of coordinate jurisdiction, I have the powers to review the decision of the PH high court if it is a nullity.

“If Senator Obi flouted the decision I made on July 28, I think my brother at PH Division ought to have drawn the attention of the CJ to the suit that was filed on August 9, before assuming jurisdiction, thereby avoid giving conflicting decision.

“Though this court is not struggling with the PH division, but the point has to be made.

I have my doubt if PH have jurisdiction to preside over a matter concerning PDP considering that both PDP and INEC has its headquarters in Abuja.

“The unfortunate situation that we found ourselves in this troublesome PDP matter would have been avoided if the PH Division drew attention of the CJ to the matter before it.

“This case was first assigned to this court. The attitude of my colleague in PH is what the Supreme Court condemned. That division has no power to make an order neutralising the order of this court”.

Insisting that Justice Watila should have declined jurisdiction in the matter that was brought before his court, Justice Abang further held: “Any party that fails to comply with subsisting order of this court will have himself to blame.

“Nobody should by conduct, bring himself into direct confrontation with the law. Nobody is above the law. Counsel in this matter should advice their clients accordingly because a stitch in time saves nine.

“I am aware that one Prince Dayo Adeyeye has been making disparaging comments about this court. I see his action as an act of indiscipline, unbecoming of someone with good moral conduct. Any person, not withstanding his position in the society that makes a habit of scandalizing the court of law, is breaking a bridge that he will cross one day”, the Judge stated.

He said his decision not to invoke powers against Adeyeye was borne out of maturity, “We have been trained to be patient like the biblical Job”.

“Maybe if I compel him to appear before this court to watch proceedings, maybe he will have a rethink against misleading members of the public that the court is making reckless decisions.

“In any event, the plaintiffs’ application is not opposed by any of the parties.

The facts placed before the court is unchallenged and uncontroveted by the defendants. Facts deposed to by plaintiffs are credible, the application deserves to succeed”, Justice Abang held.

Earlier, the Makarfi-led faction said they had gone before the Abuja Division of the Court of Appeal to vacate the order stopping it from going ahead with the convention.

The group said it has also applied for stay of execution of the interim order of injunction.

“Most especially my Lord, we are challenging the interim order of injunction restraining the holding of the 2nd defendant’s convention”, Orbih, SAN, added.

Nevertheless, Justice Abang stressed that none of the applications have been transmitted to his court by the registry.

Even though Sheriff’s lawyer, Chief Niyi Akintola, SAN, did not oppose Orbih’s plea for a stand down of the matter to enable him to fetch the processes from central registry of the court, Justice Abang, in a bench ruling, rejected the request.

He said the 3rd to 9th defendants violently violated an order he made on July 28, by allowing Senator Obi to “slap the face of the court” when he secretly obtained an ex-parte order from the Port Harcourt Division of the court.

Specifically, Sheriff and eight others had approached the court, praying it to stop the proposed national convention of the party.

Other plaintiffs behind the suit are Prof. Wale Oladapo (National Secretary); Dennis Alonge-Niyi (Deputy National Youth Leader); Alhaji Bashir Maidugu (Deputy National Legal Adviser); Mrs. Hanatu Ulam (Deputy National Women Leader); Alhaji Lawal Dutsima Anchi (Deputy National Auditor); Chief Okey Nnadozie (Deputy National Organising Secretary) and Chief Olisa Metuh (National Publicity Secretary).

The plaintiffs said they filed the suit marked FHC/ABJ/CS/464/2016, for themselves and on behalf of the Executive Committee/National Working Committee of the PDP.

Though only PDP and INEC were initially cited as defendants in the case, however, despite opposition from the Sheriff-led faction, Justice Abang, on Monday, joined Makarfi and six others as defendants in the suit.

Aside Makarfi, those allowed into the matter as 4th to 9th defendants were Senator Ben Obi, Odion Ugbesia, Abdul Ningi, Kabiru Usman, Dayo Adeyeye and Aisha Aliyu.

Remarkably, the Port Harcourt Division had on Monday, okayed the convention.

The court presided over by Justice Watila not only directed INEC to monitor the convention, it also ordered relevant security agencies in the country to provide security to the delegates.

Rate this article 0

CLICK HERE TO READ MORE FROM: General