http://kiss981.iheart.com/onair/brad-miller-53558/mother-of-dead-2yo-girl-to-15152520/
100
10
Spokane, North Idaho News & Weather KHQ.com

Video from KHQ

Though initially granted a release to a rehab facility last week, a judge ordered Wednesday for Lovina Rainey to stay in jail.

Rainey's 2-year-old daughter, Adalynn Hoyt, was found dead earlier this month in her south hill home. After investigating, detectives named and eventually arrested Rainey's ex-boyfriend, Jason Obermiller, in connection to Addy's death. Lovina has not been charged in Hoyt's death, but she was picked up on drug trafficking charges last week after detectives found meth in the home while investigating Addy's death.

After his arrest, Obermiller told investigators Rainey was selling the drugs to support her drug habit. Investigators say the drugs Rainey was distributing were bought from three Hispanic males from the Tri-Cities area.

Last week, a judge ordered that Lovina could be released to a rehab facility, but that decision was reversed on Tuesday, meaning Rainey will not only stay in jail, but will also miss her daughter's memorial on Wednesday. In fact, the judge specifically denied Rainey's request to attend her daughter's memorial service, citing concerns about "safety to the community."

Court documents show Rainey had a relationship with Obermiller, who would stay at her house and sleep in a bedroom, but the two had become "distant" over the last two weeks, but Obermiller still stayed there. Court documents say Rainey brought home another man, who kissed her in front of Obermiller, which seemed to upset Obermiller. Rainey and the other man left for a night of drinking and left her four children with Obermiller and two other adult roommates.

Court documents show Rainey returned at around 3:30 to 4:00 a.m. the next morning and saw Obermiller's car was not in the driveway and his bedroom door was closed. Court documents say Rainey looked into Obermiller's room and saw Hoyt lying on the mattress and assumed she was sleeping (Additional court documents show Rainey said she never checked on any of the children when she returned home). The next morning, Rainey noticed the other three kids were all awake, but her 2-year-old daughter wasn't. She went back into the bedroom and saw Rainey in the same position from when she checked on her hours earlier. She checked on Addy and found her arm stiff. She was dead.

Rainey called Obermiller, according to court documents, who said he could not hear her and hung up.

Another roommate told detectives she called Obermiller after finding out the girl was dead. Obermiller told her he could not come to the house because he was checking himself into drug treatment.

Detectives responding to the scene said Addy's body had numerous small bruises on her body, including on the chest, abdomen, face and head. Dr. John Howard from the Spokane County Medical Examiner's Office estimated the girl died within a half an hour of sustaining the injury.

The three siblings of the deceased victim have been placed with Child Protective Services.

Addy Hoyt's funeral will take place Wednesday, September 28th at Fairmount Memorial Cemetery. There will be a candlelight vigil in her honor that night at Riverfront Park. The family has invited the public to attend.

Fully story at KHQ.com.