http://www.philstar.com/headlines/2016/10/11/1632468/dayan-cited-contempt-ordered-arrested
1044
10
MANILA, Philippines - The House of Representatives yesterday cited Ronnie Dayan in contempt and ordered his arrest for failure to appear before the congressional inquiry on the alleged illegal drug operations at the New Bilibid Prison (NBP).

The contempt and arrest orders were issued upon the motion of House Majority Leader and Ilocos Norte Rep. Rodolfo Fariñas and was approved by the House justice committee chaired by Oriental Mindoro Rep. Reynaldo Umali of the 2nd district.

“Dayan is being held in contempt by this committee, correspondingly an arrest warrant will be issued against him to compel him to appear and testify before this committee,” panel vice chairman Oriental Mindoro 1st district Rep. Doy Leachon said.

Fariñas said the committee has the power and authority to order Dayan’s arrest because of his continued refusal to appear before the congressional investigation.

Last week, Fariñas withdrew Dayan’s citation for contempt, saying Sen. Leila’s de Lima’s alleged lover should be given a chance to explain.

P100,000 for info on Dayan

A P100,000 reward has been offered for information on the whereabouts of Dayan.

Headlines ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1

The Volunteers Against Crime and Corruption (VACC) offered the reward yesterday in a bid to help the House inquiry on the alleged illegal drug activity in the NBP.

Lawyer Ferdinand Topacio said the money for the reward came from contributions of citizens.

Topacio said anyone who knows Dayan’s location should inform VACC and should not try to “apprehend, arrest or gain custody on him in any way.”

He expressed belief that Dayan could be the missing link in the “mystery” shrouding the illegal drug operations at the NBP.

Topacio is the legal counsel of high-profile prisoners Herbert Colanggo, Noel Martinez, German Agojo, Joel Capones and Jerry Pepino.

Some of these prisoners are testifying in the House inquiry on the so-called drug matrix at the NBP.

Dayan did not show up in last Thursday’s hearing, despite the issuance of a subpoena against him.

Justice Secretary Vitaliano Aguirre II had accused Dayan of collecting money from convicted drug lords serving time at NBP.

The money was supposedly used in De Lima’s senatorial campaign in the last May elections. – With Ghio Ong