http://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-3773808/It-godawful-working-Offspring-star-Asher-Keddie-says-infuriating-work-rumours-feud-star-Kat-Stewart.html
100
10
She won the acclaimed Gold Logie award for her role on Network Ten drama Offspring.

But despite her portrayal of the show's character Nina Proudman earning her the top accolade, Asher Keddie revealed she doesn't memorise her lines easily.

Admitting she's 'not an actor who learns lines by rote,' the 42-year-old actress told Nova radio last week: 'It must be godawful working with me, actually!'

Scroll down for video

Difficult? Asher Keddie revealed she can be 'infuriating' to work with as she admits she doesn't memorise her lines on Offspring

Revealing her co-stars might find it frustrating, the Melbourne-based star said: 'I'm probably infuriating to work with, particularly in Offspring, because I'm in pretty much every scene so I need the other actors around me to be able to pull of the spontaneity of that character.'

The candid confession comes after reports surfaced of a fierce rivalry between the mother-of-one and her co-star Kat Stewart.

According to New Idea magazine, the award-winning actresses don't get along, with an insider quoted as saying: 'The thing everyone is noticing is the strain between Kat and Asher.

'It must be godawful working with me': The 42-year-old said her different acting method could make her a difficult co-star

Leading lady: Asher plays much-loved character Dr. Nina Proudman on the drama series

'It's gone to the next level. You can cut the tension with a knife.'

The source added: 'It's awkward to say the least... Asher and Kat are always very professional but life on the set is far from perfect.'

Asher and Kat, who play siblings on the series, were forced to tackle the claims head-on weeks later during an appearance on The Project to promote the sixth season.

Rivalry? Reports surfaced earlier this year of a feud between Asher and her co-star Kat Stewart, with an insider claiming the pair don't get along on-set

Defensive: The actresses were forced to face the rumours while appearing on The Project, with both women laughing it off with sarcasm

Quizzed about the allegations that they don't get along on-set, Asher said: 'She [Kat] has no filters. That's why she's so difficult to work with.'

'We're actually being quite shocked it's taken so long to come out,' the blonde beauty sarcastically said before questioning Kat: 'I think it's really obvious, don't you?'

Kat, 43, was quick to respond, saying: 'It's not chemistry, it's my acting.'