http://www.politico.com/blogs/on-media/2016/09/trump-blasts-cnns-jeff-zucker-for-trump-documentary-227948
20
2
On Media Blog Archives Select Date… December, 2015 November, 2015 October, 2015 September, 2015 August, 2015 July, 2015 June, 2015 May, 2015 April, 2015 March, 2015 February, 2015 January, 2015

CNN president Jeff Zucker Donald Trump blasts CNN’s Jeff Zucker over biographical documentary

Donald Trump took aim at CNN Worldwide President Jeff Zucker for a two-hour documentary special about Trump that the channel aired this week.

The documentary, which chronicles Trump’s early life, business and family history, and his recent foray into politics, first aired on Sept. 5 following a documentary about Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton. Trump declined requests to be interviewed for the CNN documentary, though his children were interviewed for it.

“The documentary of me that @CNN just aired is a total waste of time,” the Republican presidential nominee tweeted late Thursday. “I don't even know many of the people who spoke about me. A joke!”

Friday morning, he followed up on the earlier tweet.

“.@CNN is unwatchable,” he wrote. “Their news on me is fiction. They are a disgrace to the broadcasting industry and an arm of the Clinton campaign.” … “Jeff Zucker failed @nbc and he is now failing @CNN.”

Trump and Zucker have a long history together. Zucker was running NBC at the time Trump’s reality show “The Apprentice” became a surprise hit, and Zucker and Trump reportedly had a “very close” relationship. In June, MSNBC’s Joe Scarborough told POLITICO’s Glenn Thrush that Zucker “personally calls Trump” to book him on the cable channel. Late last year, a reporter for People Magazine said that Zucker "popped in" to Trump's office while she was meeting with the candidate.

Trump has in the past praised Zucker for his decisions at NBC and at CNN. More recently, their relationship has been rocky. In September 2015, Trump called on Zucker to donate the proceeds from broadcasting a primary debate to veterans’ groups; since then he has regularly called out CNN for being unfair and biased toward him.

Trump also criticized The Washington Post earlier this year for “Trump Revealed,” an unauthorized biography that was published in August.