http://newsday.co.tt/business/0,233243.html
1043
10
A d v e r t i s e m e n t

Business groups slam Govt, Opposition on Fatca

Thursday, September 15 2016

GOVERNMENT and Opposition came in for strong criticism from business groups for failing to “put country first” because of their seeming inability to meet the September 30 deadline to become compliant with the US Foreign Tax Compliance Act (FATCA).

The American Chamber of Commerce of Trinidad and Tobago said TT “is on the brink of being demoted to the periphery of the global financial system, largely due to inaction on the part of politicians on both sides of the political divide.” “The former Government had ample opportunity to pass this legislation during its tenure, and the current Government has also had more than a year to ensure that this important piece of legislation was properly vetted, reviewed and passed.” While AmCham was mindful of “limited, if any, consultation with stakeholders”, it says there is still enough time to complete deliberations and ensure passage of the Bill before September 30.



“The foregoing is critical since there has as yet been no indication that an extension of time is being contemplated by the US Government.” AmCham was referring to Finance Minister Colm Imbert’s stated intention to formally request an extension of the deadline from US authorities, to ensure TT has enough time to pass and enact the relevant legislation.



Non-compliance with FATCA has wide-reaching consequences, including the possible implementation of a 30 percent withholding tax on business with US banks and the loss of correspondent banking relationships.



AmCham noted that the latter could, in turn, lead to difficulties in conducting credit card transactions and wire transfers, among other things. The TT Chamber of Industry and Commerce (Chamber) also expressed deep concern about the matter yesterday, saying while it appreciates “stringent scrutiny of the Bill” it was “wholly dissatisfied” that Government now has to seek an extension.



Meanwhile the Bankers Association of TT (BATT) explained that the Bill provides the framework for financial institutions to comply with both FATCA and TT law, by reporting to the Board of Inland Revenue on the personal and financial information of US persons who are subject to US tax laws.







