http://www.irishtimes.com/news/crime-and-law/brexit-ni-victims-campaigner-to-be-funded-for-court-challenge-1.2761866
100
10
The father of a loyalist paramilitary murder victim has been granted funding to mount a High Court challenge to the UK leaving the European Union.

Victims campaigner Raymond McCord was assessed as eligible for legal aid required to seek a judicial review of the British government’s move towards Brexit.

His lawyer stressed such funding for senior and junior counsel is only authorised in cases of merit, complexity and public importance.

Mr McCord’s challenge, the first of its kind to be launched in Northern Ireland, is set to come before the court early next month.

It is understood that a cross-community group of MLAs may also be preparing to issue similar proceedings.

Mr McCord claims it would be unlawful to trigger Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty without Parliament voting on the move.

His legal team also contend it will undermine the UK’s domestic and international treaty obligations under the Belfast Agreement and inflict damage on the Northern Ireland peace process.

Troubles

The campaigner, whose son Raymond McCord jnr was murdered by the UVF in north Belfast in 1997, is taking the case amid concerns that European peace money which goes towards victims of the Troubles may be discontinued.

His case centres on the government’s response to the June 23rd referendum result.

His lawyers claim they were not given assurances that Article 50, the mechanism under which the UK begins the formal process of quitting the EU, will not be invoked without first securing a parliamentary mandate.

Any attempt to use royal prerogative powers instead cannot be justified, they contend.

Mr McCord’s solicitor, Ciarán O’Hare of McIvor Farrell, confirmed funding for the challenge was granted this week by the Civil Legal Services Appeal Panel.

It means a formal application for leave to seek judicial review can now be mounted once the new High Court term begins in September.

Mr O’Hare added: “Mr McCord wishes to extend his thanks to the panel for recognising the strong merit of his challenge.”