http://www.dnaindia.com/india/live-modi-greets-nation-on-dussehra-rss-on-sthapana-diwas-bhagwat-to-address-rally-in-nagpur-2263116
100
10
RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Tuesday addressed the Hindutva organisation's volunteers at its annual Dussehra rally in Nagpur and praised the Indian Army for the surgical strikes conducted across the LoC.

Mohan Bhagwat said that 'gau raksha' is an integral part of the Constitution and added that there are some 'divisive forces' in the country who are bent on portraying the members of the community in a negative light.

"Small farmers are dependent on cows and their progeny. There are cow protection laws in various states. Many communities like Jains are involved in Gau raksha. Gau rakshaks are good people but they should work under the law and Constitution," he said while delivering his annual address on Vijayadashami.

Bhagwat said that there is a need to identify real Gau rakshaks from the fake ones since an attempt is being made by some forces to mislead the entire nation.

The RSS chief also hit out at Pakistan without naming them and said, "India is making progress, but there are some countries in the world don't want India to progress."

"Due to discrimination based on caste, creed, language, a few incidents took place in our society which are shameful. However, as and when such incidents take place, there are a few elements that use it to create rift between people," he added.

Meanwhile, RSS volunteers cast away the khaki shorts that had been their trademark attire for 90 years and don trousers, heralding a generational change in the organisation which is the ruling BJP's ideological mentor.

The transformation in the RSS uniform comes into effect on Dussehra day, which is also the Sangh's foundation day.

The RSS has also approved change in the colour of socks to be worn by its volunteers, replacing the old khaki with dark brown, to go with the brown trousers they would now wear with a white shirt and a black cap. The traditional bamboo stick will, however, remain part of the uniform.

Meanwhile, in a break from tradition, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will attend the historic Aishbagh Ramlila in Lucknow on Dussehra, seen as yet another attempt to connect to the people of poll-bound Uttar Pradesh.

Modi wished nation on the occasion of Dusshera. "Vijaya Dashmi greetings to you all. विजयादशमी के पावन पर्व पर आप सभी को शुभकामनाएं।," he wrote on Twitter.

(With agency inputs)