http://www.asianews.network/content/crowds-throng-streets-thailand-mourns-death-king-28765
1044
10
A sea of reverent mourners, sprinkled with umbrellas against the harsh tropical sun, thronged sidewalks along the route of a royal motorcade that will bear the king from the hospital where he died to his glittering nearby palace complex, according to AFP as reported by The Nation.

Thousands of others, many holding his portrait, waited at the palace compound, shattered by the loss of the only king most have ever known and expressing anxiety for the future.

Some mourners at the hospital fainted in the heat and were carried away on stretchers, AFP journalists said.

Phongsri Chompoonuch, 77, clutched the late monarch’s portrait as she walked towards the palace.

"No matter how far it is, I can walk," she said, her voice shaking and eyes glistening with tears.

"We no longer have him. I don’t know whether I can accept that. I fear, because I don’t know what will come next," she added.

At the palace, the crown prince was to preside over the bathing of the king’s body, a traditional Buddhist funeral rite.

Months of palace rituals were to follow, including at least 100 days of chanting by monks.

Thais had expected Vajiralongkorn to be officially proclaimed king immediately.

But military junta leader Prayut Chan-O-Cha late Thursday announced the prince had sought a delay to mourn and prepare for the crown.

Bhumibol was seen as a pillar of stability during his politically turbulent 70-year reign, and uncertainty for the future rests largely on doubts over whether his son can exert the same calming moral authority.

The crown prince spends much of his time overseas and does not command the reverence at home that his father did.

There was no indication of a threat to the crown prince’s eventual succession, however, and analysts said the pause could merely be out of respect for the deeply revered king.

Strict lese majeste laws muffle detailed discussion of the sensitive succession issue.

"We maybe shouldn’t read too much into (the delay)," said David Streckfuss, an expert on the Thai monarchy.

"But we have already departed from what should have been a normal succession process. An element of ambiguity has been injected into the situation."

Government offices and state-run enterprises were closed out of respect Friday, but commercial activity otherwise carried on as usual.

Stocks, pressured all week as the king’s health worsened, rebounded Friday, with the benchmark index gaining 4.18 per cent by midday.