http://www.news.com.au/world/north-america/donald-trump-would-100-per-cent-accept-election-result-if-its-fair-son/news-story/d303ff6491270a8f6ce74e7909556a2d
100
10
Video

Image Trump tells supporters he'll beat "the rigged" system 1:23 Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump tells supporters that the U.S. election system is rigged, but says his campaign will beat it in November.

Reuters and staff writers News Corp Australia Network

DONALD Trump’s son said his dad will “100 per cent” accept the US election result if it is “fair”, as the Republican’s campaign manager conceded Trump trails Hillary Clinton in key polls.

Mr Trump has repeatedly said the election is being “rigged” against him but has not offered evidence. Numerous studies have shown that the US election system, which is decentralised and run by the states, is sound.

“I think what my father is saying is, ‘I want a fair election’,” Eric Trump said on ABC’s This Week in the US. “If it’s a fair outcome, he will absolutely accept it. There’s no question about that.”

For Iranian President Hassan Rouhani, it doesn’t matter who wins the election. He says US voters are faced with a choice between “bad and worse”.

.@EricTrump: My father will accept results of the election "100%, if it's fair" #ThisWeek https://t.co/vQvu4vMJvD — This Week (@ThisWeekABC) October 23, 2016

The news comes as Trump’s campaign manager Kellyanne Conway acknowledged that the Republican presidential nominee trails rival Ms Clinton in national and key battle ground state opinion polls.

“We are behind,” she said on NBC’s Meet the Press in the US, adding that Ms Clinton had “tremendous advantages,” including a larger campaign war chest that she can use to buy television commercials.

At last week’s debate with Ms Clinton, Mr Trump challenged a cornerstone of American democracy by refusing to commit to honouring the result of the US election.

“What I’m saying is that I will tell you at the time. I’ll keep you in suspense. OK?” Mr Trump said.

In the aftermath of the debate, Mr Trump said he would accept the election outcome “if I win.”

The latest Reuters/Ipsos poll released on Friday has Mr Trump trailing Ms Clinton by four percentage points. The latest Reuters/Ipsos States of the Nation project found Ms Clinton with a 95 per cent chance of winning the needed 270 Electoral College votes.

An ABC News poll released on Sunday morning had Ms Clinton leading with 50 per cent of likely support, compared to Mr Trump at 38 per cent. The poll found a that the number of Republicans said they were likely to vote fell seven per cent from mid-October.

Ms Conway, also was pressed on Sunday on CNN’s State of the Union on whether Mr Trump would accept the election results.

“The system is rigged, especially against the little guy,” said Ms Conway without directly responding to the question. She spoke of any challenges to the election results as “hypothetical.”

The efforts by members of Mr Trump’s inner circle to downplay his remarks about the integrity of the election indicate he would come under significant pressure to accept the result if he were to lose.

Republican Party Chairman Reince Priebus said that by asking Mr Trump to agree to concede, the media was making an extraordinary request. He said Mr Trump would only fight if the election were close and is not trying to dispute a fair election.

“That’s not quite what he’s saying. What he’s saying is he wants to reserve all options and if there is ground for a recount I’ll reserve all options,” Mr Priebus said on CBS’s Face The Nation.

On Sunday, Mr Trump picked up his first endorsement of the general election from a major newspaper when the Las Vegas Review backed his candidacy. The newspaper is owned by Republican mega-donor Sheldon Adelson, who has been reluctant to donate to Mr Trump. In 2012, Mr Adelson spent about $US150 million trying to help elect Republican Mitt Romney.

Ms Clinton and Mr Trump spent yesterday campaigning in the key swing states of Florida and North Carolina, where the latest polls show they are within only a few points of each other.

IRAN’S PRESIDENT WEIGHS INTO ELECTION DRAMA

The Iranian President says the two US election candidates offer American voters a choice between bad and worse.

In a speech delivered on Sunday in the Iranian central city of Arak, Hassan Rouhani criticised Ms Clinton and Mr Trump for fighting a vicious campaign littered with personal attacks.

He said that during his visit to the United Nations General Assembly in New York last September, he was asked which of the candidates he preferred, to which he replied “What? Should I prefer bad to worse or worse to bad?”

“Did you see the debate and the way of their speaking, accusing and mocking each other?” he added.

The Iranian leader considered that “morality has no place” in the United States, despite claiming that “it has had democracy for more than 200 years”.

DID ERIC TRUMP STEAL SOFT DRINK?

A photo of Mr Trump’s son Eric has gone viral after he was apparently caught stealing soft drink from In-N-Out Burger, an American fast food chain.

Eric Trump and his family visited the restaurant in Las Vegas on Wednesday night, after the third presidential debate, and was pictured holding a free water cup apparently filled with soft drink (you have to pay for soft drink).

It’s possible that Eric Trump was drinking a paid-for soda, but that hasn’t stopped internet users having a field day with the snap.

this is a photo of my homey grant with trumps kid at in-n-out & trumps kid is drinking lemonade outta the free water cup... pic.twitter.com/Npuqte5e2b — Kush Vonnegut (@xwnklmnx) October 20, 2016

SNL SKEWERS TRUMP, CLINTON

Saturday Night Live has mocked Mr Trump’s final debate performance saying the entire planet was laughing at the Republican candidate’s claims that no one has more respect for women than him.

Alec Baldwin as Mr Trump and Kate McKinnon, who portrayed Ms Clinton, went through many of the debate’s highlights including Trump’s use of the phrase “bad hombres” and calling the former Secretary of State “such a nasty woman.”

The sketch comedy show’s host Tom Hanks played debate moderator, Chris Wallace.