http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/pune/Talks-with-government-Nagpur-date-drive-wedge/articleshow/54788270.cms
1043
10
PUNE: For the first time since the Maratha marches started in August, the organizers seem divided on talks with the government and about a silent march to chief minister Devendra Fadnavis 's residence in Nagpur.A group of organisers insist that no talks must be held with the government till the last march in Mumbai concludes, while another is pushing for talks with the state even as the marches continue. The government has planned a strategy to allow its ministers to face the marches.Senior minister Chandrakant Patil is likely to meet the protesters in Kolhapur on Saturday and accept their memorandum.The move has rattled the Maratha community which has gone into a huddle over how to respond to the government's move. Many organizers are against holding any talks with the minister, insisting that they will have a dialogue only with Fadnavis.This section claimed that the government was trying to buy time instead of deciding on their demands.However, not all the organizers have reached a consensus over talks with the government.Pravin Gaikwad, one of the organizers, told media persons that the community has already given several memoranda to district collectors and the government must announce its stand on their issues. A group of organizers, who recently met in Pune, said the government was trying to split the community by inviting some leaders for discussions."There is no need to take a delegation to the chief minister. We are clear about our demands and the government must take a call now. The chief minister is trying to send emissaries who don't have any standing in the community. This is going to complicate matters," an organizer added.Observer Sadanand More said the community must initiate a dialogue and chose its leaders for talks with the government. A section of the organizers has been insisting that the community start talks with the government while the marches continue.Meanwhile, a group of organizers met in Aurangabad on Sunday to discuss the next strategy. It was decided that the protest in Nagpur will be conducted during the winter session of the assembly in December and the protesters will march to Fadnavis's residence.However, the protest has already been planned on October 25 in Nagpur and its organizers are unwilling to postpone it. Mudhojiraje Bhosale, a member of the erstwhile royal family of Nagpur, is firm about the date. Speaking to television channels, Bhosale said some organizers had not taken him into confidence while changing the date of the march in Nagpur, and he would push ahead with the date.However, the organizers said they will communicate with Bhosale and bring him around to the winter session march.