http://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/3479033/posts
100
10
Skip to comments.

German city on terror alert over bomb plot suspect [Chemnitz]

Digital Journal ^ | 08 October 2016

Posted on by Lorianne

The German city of Chemnitz was in lockdown Saturday after armed police launched a huge manhunt for a Syrian suspected of planning a bomb attack, as the country grapples with a weakened sense of security following recent terror assaults.

Police, who told people to stay in their homes, named the suspect as 22-year-old Syrian Jaber Albakr. Photographs posted on social media showed armed police clad in black balaclavas and helmets at an apartment building in the eastern city.

Germany has been on edge after suffering two attacks claimed by the Islamic State group (IS) in July -- an axe rampage on a train in Wuerzburg that injured five and a suicide bombing in Ansbach that left 15 wounded.

In the latest alert, police in the state of Saxony issued a search warrant for Albakr, saying he was born in Syria in January 1994.

They said Albakr was wearing a black hooded sweatshirt and was "suspected of preparing a bomb attack".

A search of an apartment in Chemnitz detected traces of explosives but failed to capture the suspect or find a bomb, a police spokesman said.

He said police launched Saturday's operation after receiving information from domestic intelligence services.

"We are carrying out in Chemnitz a large-scale operation due to suspicions that a bomb attack was being prepared," police said on Twitter, urging residents to stay at home.

"The explosion heard in the area was a police entry measure. The wanted person has not been found," police added.

The attacks in July rattled Germans' sense of security and fuelled concerns over the country's record influx of migrants and refugees last year.



(Excerpt) Read more at digitaljournal.com ...

TOPICS:

Foreign Affairs

Germany

KEYWORDS:





To: Lorianne

The new normal.



To: Lorianne

Chemnist aka “Karl Marx Stadt”.



To: Lorianne





by 4 posted onby Byron_the_Aussie (Globalism = Terrorism)

To: Lorianne

Remind me again how the invaders were so well educated and would help Germany achieve great things.



by 5 posted onby bgill (From the CDC site, "We don't know how people are infected with Ebola")

To: Lorianne

Not to worry. These legions of new "workers" will take tender care of all the elderly Germans in their nursing homes and produce great products on German production lines. If anything, they are more worthless and criminal than the Roma - and that is saying a lot. On the other hand, the Roma only want to pick your pockets, steal your stuff, and game the welfare systems. The Muslims want to do all that and steal your women and chop off your Infidel heads to boot!



by 6 posted onby Gritty (This election is our last chance... We won't get another opportunity. It will be too late.-DJTrump)

To: Lorianne





Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works.

FreeRepublic , LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794

FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson