http://www.4-traders.com/news/Department-of-Finance-of-Ireland-Minister-Eoghan-Murphy-concludes-Asian-programme-with-IFS-IRELAND--23118652/
233
2
Minister Eoghan Murphy concludes Asian programme with IFS IRELAND brand launch in Japan

Today, 27 September 2016 in Tokyo Minister Eoghan Murphy concluded an intensive seven day, three destination Asian programme with the launch of the IFS IRELAND banner brand in Japan.

Japan, the world's third largest economy whose bilateral trade with Ireland is in excess of €5.7 billion, is a key target in Ireland's push to expand and diversify its financial sector beyond traditional markets. In the last five years alone Japanese FDI related employment doubled to just under four thousand high value jobs.

Noting Ireland's upcoming 60th anniversary of diplomatic relations with Japan next year, Minister Murphy commented that:

'The sophistication of the Japanese financial sector presents an ideal opportunity for Irish companies looking to establish long-term trade relationships and partnerships. I consider this important anniversary as representing an ideal opportunity to promote Ireland as a destination of choice for Japanese investment.'

Speaking to gathered media at the official launch of the IFS IRELAND brand at the Japan National Press Club and noting how the result of the UK Referendum vote featured prominently in discussions throughout his programme, Minister Murphy emphasised that:

'Both Ireland and Japan share a common view that negotiations should be conducted with a view to minimise any adverse impacts on businesses, the economy, and on the free movement of people, goods, and services.'

The Minister's programme also took in bilateral meetings with Japanese Finance Minister Aso, Governor Kuroda of the Bank of Japan and an address and discussion with the influential business group, Keidanren.

As part of promoting the Government's IFS 2020 Strategy and upcoming European Financial Forum next January in Dublin Castle, Minister Murphy spoke at a number of networking events with major Japanese financial services' institutions and with the Ireland-Japan Chamber of Commerce.

As to discussions at these meetings he noted that:

'The long-term outlook of the Japanese business model is closely aligned with Ireland's pursuit of sustainable economic recovery and future prosperity. I am grateful for the open and frank engagement with Japanese business leaders today and yesterday. I am confident that Ireland is the right fit for Japan in terms of our technology, talent and access to EU and international markets.'

Later this week Minister Eoghan Murphy will travel to Kilkenny to promote the Irish regions as a location for financial services and also to consult with IDA and Enterprise Ireland client companies regarding the preparation of his IFS 2017 Action Plan.

More information and updates about IFS IRELAND and the European Financial Forum can be found at www.ifsIreland.com and via the Twitter hashtags #IfsIreland, #EFF2017

ENDS

Further information from: David Byrne - Press Officer - pressoffice@finance.gov.ie - 086 026 7978

Notes for editors

Relevant Links:

Embassy of Ireland Singapore: https://www.dfa.ie/irish-embassy/singapore/

Embassy of Ireland China - Shanghai: www.dfa.ie/irish-consulate/shanghai/

Embassy of Ireland Japan: www.embassyofireland.jp

IDA Ireland: www.idaireland.jp

Enterprise Ireland: www.enterprise-ireland.or.jp