http://www.thestar.com.my/metro/community/2016/10/04/be-kind-and-caring-catholics-told-carry-out-actual-acts-and-not-just-talk-about-the-need-to-do-so-sa/
100
10
MIRI: Catholics have been told to go out and show mercy to the needy in society by concrete acts of kindness towards everyone in need.

Vatican Ambassador to Malaysia Archbishop Joseph Marino yesterday said Catholics must not just talk about the need to be kind and merciful but they must show by actual acts of kindness towards society.

Speaking to about 4,000 Catholics at the Miri Stadium in conjunction with the 40th anniversary celebrations of the Miri Catholic Diocese, he said Pope Francis as the head of the Catholic Church worldwide placed top priority on being merciful.

“Pope Francis wants to stress that the church must live the most essential criteria of being a Christian – that is to be genuinely kind and merciful to all who are suffering in one way or another.

“We cannot passively wait in the comfort of the church building and just preach about being merciful and kind.

“We must show it by the way we live and by the way we treat and help others,” he said after mass at the stadium.

Marino also handed over an anniversary memento from Pope Francis to Miri Catholic Diocese head, Bishop Richard Ng.

Catholics from all over northern Sarawak at the Miri Stadium to celebrate the anniversary of the Miri Diocese.

Ng in his address said the church was grateful to the Mill Hill missionaries who had planted the seed of Christianity in Sarawak and who had helped the church to grow.

He also echoed the message by Pope Francis who wanted to see Catholics put into practice the call from Jesus Christ to be kind and caring.

Ng said the best story on kindness was the Good Samaritan parable preached by Christ.

“The Good Samaritan story showed it was not enough to just know the laws of God that asked us to be kind but that we must put them into practice through our deeds,” he said.

He stressed that the church was grateful to the Sarawak leaders and the state government for being fair to Christians and people of other religions.

The state, he said, gave regular financial assistance and also land to help build churches and chapels apart from taking care of the welfare of Christians and people of all faiths.

Children having fun taking part in the activities held during the Family Day.

Ng also thanked Miri politicians such as Senadin assemblyman Datuk Lee Kim Shin and Piasau assemblyman Datuk Sebastian Ting for their moral and financial support to the church here.

Lee recently gave RM600,000 towards the building of a chapel at the Tudan residential zones near the border with Brunei.

After the mass, the parishioners later held a Family Day gathering filled with fun activities.