http://www.standardmedia.co.ke/article/2000220931/cord-kicks-up-a-storm-as-raila-odinga-allies-demand-fresh-voter-listing
100
10


Updated Tue, October 25th 2016 at 00:00 GMT +3

ODM leader Raila Odinga (left), Kisii Governor James Ongwae (right) and Nyamira Governor John Nyagarama (second right) introduce ODM by-election candidate Naftali Onkoba in Kisii yesterday. The rival coalitions clashed yesterday after Raila's allies made fresh demands on electoral reforms. (PHOTO: DENISH OCHIENG/ STANDARD)

The rival coalitions clashed yesterday after Opposition leader Raila Odinga’s allies made fresh demands on electoral reforms.

Twin demands by CORD MPs for a fresh voter registration and halting of procurement processes until new electoral commissioners assume office ignited a fresh battle with Jubilee leaders.

ODM chairman John Mbadi declared the party was no longer interested in an audit of a register of voters and instead wants fresh voter registration.

National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale accused the Opposition of reopening issues settled by a bi-partisan parliamentary committee.

Another political battle looms after allies of Opposition leader Raila Odinga made fresh demands on electoral reforms.

ODM yesterday swung around and demanded that the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) lists voters afresh instead of auditing the register of voters as recommended by the joint select committee on electoral reforms.

And Coalition for Reforms and Democracy (CORD) affiliate parties also issued a warning against IEBC procuring polls kits until a new team of commissioners takes charge.

CORD claims allowing IEBC to carry on with procurement when the beleaguered nine commissioners are still in office may compromise the August 8, 2017, polls.

But the Jubilee coalition accused the Opposition of trying to reopen debate on issues that had been settled by a bipartisan committee that was co-chaired by senators Kiraitu Murungi and James Orengo, formed after the bloody anti-IEBC protests.

Set deadlines

The governing coalition insisted that procurement functions belong to the secretariat, which should move on with its plans to beat some of the set deadlines.

ODM Chairman John Mbadi said the party was no longer interested in the audit of the voter register but was now demanding fresh voter registration in the months of February and March before inspection of register in April.