http://www.express.co.uk/news/uk/724996/Diane-Abbott-British-ashamed-MPs-treat-refugees-cattle-migrants
100
10
GETTY Diane Abbott has said she is not happy with how the Government has treated migrants

The Shadow Home Secretary accused politicians of treating migrants "like cattle" because MPs suggested there should be dental checks for young people coming to the UK from Calais. This comes as politicians have become concerned that it is not the most vulnerable children who are arriving from Calais - but instead adult men.

GETTY Diane Abbott has been a supporter of Jeremy Corbyn

I'm ashamed of being a British person when you have British members of parliament suggesting you should treat refugees like cattle Diane Abbott

On Saturday at a rally, Ms Abbott said: "What commentators in this country have to understand is that nobody would leave their home, cross the Sahara in many cases, risking their lives, cross the Mediterranean, in particular risking their lives, if they were not desperate. "If they were not facing catastrophic war. And I have to say that I'm ashamed of being a British person when you have British members of parliament suggesting you should treat refugees like cattle, and test their teeth, what has this country come to?" Conservative MP Philip Davies said: "Diane Abbott is the one who has shown how out of touch her and the Labour party are with public opinion. "She should be ashamed that Britain has been taken for a ride and treated like mugs. Our generosity is being abused."

Migrant crisis explained in numbers Fri, July 22, 2016 A monthly record of 218,394 migrants and refugees reached Europe by sea in October, the UN says, almost as many as the total number of arrivals in 2014. We take a look at the shocking statistics facing the humanitarian crisis. Play slideshow AFP/Getty Images 1 of 47 137 migrants of African origins were rescued by coast guard boats off the coast of Libya

GETTY Philip Davies MP does not agree with Ms Abbott's comments

GETTY Some politicians are concerned that it is not the vulnerable children being allowed into the UK

Yesterday in the House of Commons Ms Abbott also said the Calais migrant camp should have stayed until all children were assessed. She accused the Government of not doing enough to help people in the French town. However, Home Secretary Amber Rudd defended the closure of the camp saying it was in the national interests of both Britain and France - saying it is a "humanitarian operation".