http://nation.com.pk/newspaper-picks/25-Oct-2016/un-must-ensure-implementation-of-its-resolutions-aizaz
101
10
ISLAMABAD - Foreign Secretary Aizaz Ahmed Chaudhry yesterday said that the United Nations must ensure implementation of its resolutions on Kashmir and other disputes.

He said Kashmir was one of the oldest disputes pending in the United Nations, which demanded immediate attention.

Speaking to journalists here on the 71st anniversary of the United Nations, he said Pakistan was committed to the UN charter on peace and non-interference but the UN had failed to get these rules implemented.

Chaudhry said the UN should play its due role in resolving the Kashmir issue for lasting peace in the region by ascertaining wishes of the people of Kashmir.

He said when the UN resolutions were not implemented it resulted in Iraq-like situation. He also said that the UN was failing to play the global policeman’s role and was in fact just passing recommendations.

He said Indian unprovoked firing on the Line of Control and the Working Boundary was unfortunate, which should be stopped immediately.

He said Islamabad always abided by the ceasefire agreement with New Delhi, but India always resorted to unprovoked firing, even on civilian population and Pakistan was compelled to respond.

The secretary said it is hoped that United Nations Military Observers Group in India and Pakistan will submit its report over the ceasefire violations by India on LoC and the Working Boundary.

He said Islamabad was preparing dossiers about India's interference in Pakistan, which would be submitted to UN General Secretary and at other world fora.

He said Pakistan wanted peace in Afghanistan and playing its due role in furthering the reconciliation process.

The secretary referred to the quadrilateral group saying it was formed to promote reconciliation in Afghanistan and all the countries are contributing in establishing peace, harmony, and reconciliation.

Meanwhile, President Mamnon Hussain said yesterday that Pakistan joined other nations of the world in commemorating the 71st anniversary of the founding of the United Nations.

“We believe that the United Nations is the best forum for the international community to deal with the multifarious challenges that our complex and interconnected world faces,” he said, adding Pakistan attached great importance to multilateral cooperation.

“We have an abiding commitment to the principles and purposes of the UN charter and continue to actively contribute towards their attainment. Pakistan has maintained a strong and leading role at the United Nations in promoting the collective objectives of peace and security, development and human rights,” he said in a message on the UN Day.

“Despite the challenges faced domestically in the fight against terrorism, we remain a major participant in the United Nations Peacekeeping Missions, the most tangible manifestation of our contribution to the maintenance of international peace and security,” he said.

Over the last five decades, more than 170,000 Pakistani peacekeepers have participated in the UN Peacekeeping Missions around the world and 146 Pakistani peacekeepers have made the ultimate sacrifice in the line of duty, he said.

“We are determined to fulfil this obligation in the times to come. Pakistan also hosts the United Nations Military Observers Group in India and Pakistan, one of the oldest UN peacekeeping missions, which continues to play a vital role in observing ceasefire in the disputed state of Jammu and Kashmir,” the president added.

The United Nations, he said, is seen as a symbol of hope by the oppressed people of the world. Since 8 July 2016, following the martyrdom of Kashmiri youth leader Burhan Muzaffar Wani, the people of Indian-occupied Jammu and Kashmir have been subjected to the worst oppression and human rights abuses by the Indian occupation forces.

The Kashmiri people look towards the United Nations to ensure accountability of those responsible for these atrocities and to help realize their right of self-determination promised to them by international community as stipulated in the UN Security Council resolutions, he said.

“The world today faces many evolving threats and grave challenges ranging from the maintenance of international peace and security to sustainable development, climate change and the fight against poverty and hunger. These challenges can best be addressed by a strong and effective United Nations. Today is an occasion for the international community to reaffirm its full political support and commitment to the United Nations to ensure the success of its noble objectives. Pakistan will always be in the forefront of this cause,” the president said in his message.