http://classic.iol.co.za/news/crime-courts/cop-shot-in-the-mouth-during-protests-1.2057111
101
10
File photo

Durban - A metro police officer was shot when protesters closed the M25, near Bhambayi Road, on Monday as protests gripped Inanda and its surrounds.

Protesters took to the streets in Mawoti, Bhambayi and Mzinyathi, to the north of Durban, over unhappiness with the Independent Electoral Commission’s handling of the recent municipal elections.

“A metro police officer was shot in the mouth and right arm while trying to monitor the situation and a bus was set alight,” said police spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane.

“A case of attempted murder and malicious damage to property was opened at Inanda police station. No arrests have been made yet,” Zwane said.

A woman resident of the Mawoti area, who declined to be named, said protest action started at about 2am, with supporters of an independent councillor candidate taking to the streets, claiming their candidate was cheated in the poll.

According to the resident, protesters blocked the M25 with burning tyres and debris.

“I don’t understand why they (protesters) don’t go to the IEC to voice their dissatisfaction with the outcome of the elections, because their actions are now affecting our livelihoods as we can’t get to work due to them shutting down the roads,” she said.

Public transport in the area was brought to a standstill early on Monday as protesters pelted motorists with stones and prevented commuters getting to a bus stop.

However Zwane said public transport was operating again and roads had been cleared by mid-morning.

A community leader, Zamokuhle Mkhize of the IFP, said the protests arose from the objection that losing candidates had lodged over voting irregularities in Inanda’s Ward 3 with the IEC on August 3.

Mkhize said the community had embarked on a protest last Thursday and two community members were arrested for public violence.

“Today, the community demands that IEC give answers because they did not pitch up last week, instead the police came and arrested two people,” he said.

Mkhize also said Monday’s protest, which coincided with the bail application of the arrested community members, would continue.

Daily News

IOL on Twitter

IOL News on Facebook

Get our free IOL newsletters - subscribe here...