http://www.philstar.com/cebu-news/2016/09/20/1625520/doc-suspended-probe-complaints-starts
100
10
CEBU, Philippines - A doctor in Pinamungajan town has been suspended pending investigation by the Cebu Provincial Health Office into her alleged "unprofessional behavior" towards the hospital's personnel and patients.

PHO Chief Rene Catan said the suspension order against Dr. Ma. Luz Zenaida Agravante took effect Thursday last week.

"She is now under investigation. Ako pud siya gisultihan nga ayaw sa og duty karon hangtod nga kaning issue bahin sa iyaha ma-settle na," he said.

Catan said Agravante had until yesterday to answer the complaint filed by staff nurses and attendant. The complainants filed their complaint before Governor Hilario Davide III and Vice Governor Agnes Magpale.

Catan said they have formed a committee composed of four PHO doctors to look into the complaint.

"Para ma-professionalize ang investigation and naay proper channels, independent ang ilahang investigation so nag-create tag committee," he said.

Freeman ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch:

Catan said Agravante is expected to appear before the committee tomorrow, Wednesday.

"Kay we cannot act on all petitions based on just mere petitions. We have to be objective. Kung ngano o tinuod ba, aron objective atong decisions," he said.

He said the hope is to let the parties settle the issue amicably.

"Ang atoa karon maningkamot ta for amicable settlement. Unya ug kung dili gani, we will up the complaint ngadto sa legal," Catan said.

"They want her out," he warned.

Even before the formal complaint was filed, the employees went to his office to complaint about Agravante.

"We felt ang issue is more on personalities pero pagbalik nila kadawat nami atong complaint, gisaka nila sa gov and vice gov so murag dako na gyud ni," he said.

Employees of the Dr. Jose Ma. V. Borromeo Memorial District Hospital earlier asked Davide and Magpale to have the doctor transferred due to her alleged "unprofessional behavior." The petition letter enumerated several occasions when the doctor allegedly displayed her unprofessional conduct, including allegedly scolding the staff, forcing patients to be admitted, and threatening not to issue any prescription if they refused admission.

A certain Cleofe Nebres also accused the doctor of not fully attending to her six-year-old child who was suffering from high fever. (FREEMAN)