http://www.philstar.com/nation/2016/09/10/1622121/6-p2-b-subic-drug-bust-get-life-shabu
100
10
OLONGAPO CITY, Philippines – Six persons who were caught in possession of 432.234 kilos of shabu with an estimated street value of P2 billion in Subic, Zambales in 2013 have been sentenced to life imprisonment.

Albert Chin, Romeo Manalo, Joselito Esqueta, Coronel Disierto, Emmanuel Erwin Tobias and Dennis Dormido were also ordered to pay a fine of P1 million each, Olongapo City Regional Trial Court Branch 75 Judge Raymond Viray said in a ruling dated Aug. 30, but released only yesterday.

Esqueta, Disierto, Tobias and Dormido were arrested while loading the drugs into a Nissan Urvan (XBX-507) during a raid on a house at the Sta. Monica subdivision in Barangay Sto. Tomas.

Chin and Manalo tried to escape, but were collared at a tollgate of the North Luzon Expressway in Floridablanca, Pampanga.

In filing the charges, the Department of Justice gave credence to the testimony of Police Office 2 Alexander de los Reyes who penetrated the syndicate by posing as a helper in the house.

In his affidavit, De los Reyes said he saw the respondents put foil packs containing shabu into balikbayan boxes.

Nation ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1

What to do with over 4,000 pigs

Meanwhile, the arrest of six Chinese men and a woman during a raid on a shabu laboratory in Magalang, Pampanga on Wednesday has created a problem for Mayor Malou Lacson.

The shabu laboratory was found in one of the buildings on a 3.5-hectare piggery in Barangay San Ildefonso.

“The piggery workers have remained unpaid and their Chinese bosses are gone. Who will take care of the animals?” Lacson asked during a forum with the local media yesterday.

He said an inventory by the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency showed that there are 2,145 piglets, 857 growers, 660 finishers, 359 sows and 17 boars in the piggery.

She said she consulted with officials of the Department of Agriculture and was advised to sell the animals.

“There have been offers of as high as P5 million, but only for some of the pigs. After consulting with various agencies, I think my option is to sell wholesale. I will be meeting with the buyers soon,” she said.

“I do not want to be accused of any anomaly later on in handling this situation,” she said, adding that 10 pigs have died since Wednesday because the feed had not been prepared.

Lacson said part of the proceeds from the sale of the pigs could be used to benefit five children found in the piggery during the raid. The children were turned over to Haven, a government-run facility for abused, exploited and disadvantaged women and children. – With Ding Cervantes