https://www.newsday.co.zw/2016/09/09/go-hang-zanu-pf-mp-told/
1043
10
OPPOSITION parties yesterday said Zanu PF Mpopoma legislator, Joseph Tshuma should “go hang” after he insinuated that Bulawayo people were lazy and not aggressive enough in grabbing opportunities, but quick to blame marginalisation for their woes.

BY NQOBANI NDLOVU

Tshuma told pastors at meeting held at Inyathi Youth Centre on Tuesday that he does not understand why people cry marginalisation when they are not grabbing opportunities, preferring to risk life and limb crossing the crocodile-infested Limpopo River to South Africa.

He said people were shunning job opportunities in the army, yet there was a quota system for Bulawayo, residents adding “people from our region are not determined. They are choosy. They prefer going to South Africa”.

Opposition parties described Tshuma as a dangerous breed of politician, who should be kicked out of Parliament.

“A disappointing comment from a young politician like him. I doubt he is from Matabeleland. Going to South Africa is the last and most difficult option for our people, but they have no option but to go there due to naked marginalisation in Zimbabwe,” Zimbabwe People First spokesperson, Methuseli Moyo said.

“Why would youths from Matabeleland be expected to join the army when they have never heard of anyone from their region being in charge of the army?”

People’s Democratic Party provincial spokesperson, Edwin Ndlovu, weighed in, saying Tshuma’s remarks were insensitive.

“After getting the Mpopoma seat by default, he should just enjoy the gravy train while it lasts and give us a break. We know that power corrupts, but for him to be corrupted within a year of being an MP is frightening,” he said.

Zapu deputy spokesperson, Iphuthile Maphosa said Tshuma should use his parliamentary post to conscientise President Robert Mugabe on the marginalisation of the Matabeleland region.

Tshuma is one of the five Zanu PF MP’s who won seats in Bulawayo last year in by-elections boycotted by the opposition.