http://www.wsj.com/articles/a-longtime-industry-identity-could-die-with-bayer-monsanto-merger-1473870839
20
2
ENLARGE Bayer’s plan to acquire Monsanto could mean the gradual effacement of a corporate identity that has endured for 115 years and represents a global leader in crop seeds and genes. Photo: Associated Press

If there is a graveyard for famous company names, it may be getting crowded.

Bayer’s plan to acquire Monsanto could mean the gradual effacement of a corporate identity that has endured for 115 years and represents a global leader in crop seeds and genes.

Executives of the firms, which agreed a $57 billion deal Wednesday, said the future of Monsanto’s name—denoting blue-chip technology in farming circles, and a familiar foe among environmentalists—hasn’t yet been determined.

“We haven’t discussed that specifically, but we have said in the past as we looked at our previous transaction, that is something we would be flexible on,” said Hugh Grant, Monsanto’s chairman and chief executive, on a conference call with reporters Wednesday. Monsanto proposed a new name last year as part of its takeover approach to Swiss pesticide giant Syngenta AG , which didn’t come to pass.

Though companies spend millions promoting them, corporate names regularly expire.

The store chains F.W. Woolworth and Montgomery Ward, once known from coast to coast, have vaporized, though the latter survives in vastly diminished form as an online retailer. Storied names including Pan American, Eastern and Northwest have disappeared from the skies, while International Harvester no longer rules the corn fields.

When the pioneering U.S. computer makers Sperry and Burroughs combined in 1986, they asked employees to suggest a new name. Ideas included Busynex, Neplusultra, Zyre, Yet Another Computer Company, Erro and Data-Be-the-Day. The winner was Unisys, now a small player in the information-technology industry with 2015 revenue of about $3 billion.

Three decades ago, some of the most famous names in American banking were Bankers Trust, Chemical Bank, Manufacturers Hanover, First Chicago, Norwest and Security Pacific. Consolidations swallowed them up.

If Rip Van Winkle dozed off on a Wall Street bench in the 1980s, he might now wonder what happened to such proud securities firms as Salomon Brothers, Lehman Brothers, Drexel Burnham Lambert and Bear Stearns—all undone by various forms of hubris.

The names of venerable London stockbrokers—including James Capel, Phillips & Drew, L. Messel and Scrimgeour Kemp-Gee—shuffled off after U.S. and European banks took over the business in the 1980s and 1990s.

Compaq Computer acquired the once-powerful Digital Equipment in 1998 but then itself was absorbed four years later by Hewlett-Packard.

Occasionally, the name of a vanquished firm survives. When the telephone upstart SBC Communications took over AT&T in 2005, the combined company kept the more famous moniker. Westinghouse Electric, owned by Japan’s Toshiba for the past decade, still sells nuclear-plant equipment under its own fabled name.

Sometimes names can be a curse. The giant German chemical and pharmaceutical company Hoechst long struggled to teach foreigners how to pronounce its name: roughly Herkst. The problem was finally solved in 1999 by merging with France’s Rhone-Poulenc to create Aventis. Though artificial, it was a pleasingly simple name. In 2004, Sanofi-Synthelabo acquired Aventis. Initially known as Sanofi-Aventis, the drug company now is simply Sanofi.

Write to James R. Hagerty at bob.hagerty@wsj.com