http://www.wsj.com/articles/emirates-president-calls-for-tougher-samsung-oversight-1476214105
100
10
ENLARGE Tim Clark, president of Emirates Airlines, wrote in an email that Galaxy Note 7 cellphones ‘are clearly dangerous items to carry on airplanes.’ Photo: Bloomberg News

The head of Emirates, the world’s largest international airline, said Tuesday that Samsung Electronics Co. Galaxy Note 7 cellphones should be kept off flights.

Emirates’ call goes beyond the guidance of air-safety regulators who this week tightened their recommendations and called on passengers to power down during flight all Note 7s, including replacement models.

“They are clearly dangerous items to carry on airplanes and the industry is moving to ensure that they are not allowed in the cabin, or the hold,” Emirates Airline President Tim Clark wrote in an email.

Samsung on Tuesday said it was scrapping the Note 7. It has shipped 2.5 million of the phones, many of which remain in circulation despite a widespread recall. Industry sources said it would be difficult to enforce a complete ban on flying with the remaining Note 7s in circulation.

U.S. aviation-safety officials late Monday said fliers shouldn’t use any Samsung Electronics Co. Galaxy Note 7 cellphones on flights, expanding their guidance to include replacement models. They previously excluded replacement models purchased after September from their advice to fliers.

The International Air Transport Association, the main global trade body, said it continued to advise members to follow the guidelines laid out by regulators and air-safety officials.

The Federal Aviation Administration on Monday reiterated its guidance, which is also being followed by overseas airlines, for passengers to keep the phones powered off and avoid charging them on the plane. Passengers are also being told to keep phones on their person or in carry-on baggage.

The European Air Safety Agency on Tuesday updated its own guidance in line with the FAA.

Airlines continue to remind passengers to turn off their Samsung Note 7 phones through announcements at airport gates and as part of preflight safety briefings. On Tuesday some carriers updated guidance on their websites to remove any exemptions for the replacement phones.

Write to Doug Cameron at doug.cameron@wsj.com