http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/nagpur/TAL-to-serve-Boeing-and-Airbus-from-Mihan/articleshow/53790450.cms
20
2
NAGPUR: Tata Group's TAL Manufacturing Solutions , which started off as a unit to make floor beams for Boeing Dreamliners in Mihan , inaugurated a facility for making spares to be used in Airbus ' aircraft, on Saturday.The event coincided with a function to deliver the 5000th floor beam to Boeing. This makes TAL probably the only unit which is catering to both Boeing and Airbus, the two Aviation giants and also rivals, under a single roof. The supply to Airbus will be through Switzerland-based Ruag Aviation, a tier one supplier to the aircraft maker.The ceremony was attended by chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and union minister for surface transport as well as Member of Parliament (MP) from Nagpur, Nitin Gadkari TAL, which is a subsidiary of Tata Motors, eyes to take its turnover to Rs1,000 crore in the next five years as against the current Rs200 crore. A chunk of the business is expected from the Mihan plant."There are plans to start another workshop for making generic components for original equipment makers (OEMs) in the coming two years," said TAL's chief executive officer Rajesh Khatri For Ruag, the company will be making sheet metals, machine parts and assemblies. TAL has evolved in this sector with time. "The additional workshop, which has been planned two years from now, is likely to be used for making advanced components," said Khatri.The TAL chief sees a major opportunity in the sector. If the global average is 4%, in India aviation sector has seen a growth of 22%. TAL will have also have an early mover advantage. So far the company has pumped in Rs400 crore which includes Rs300 crore for the floor beam unit."The new workshop is likely to have an investment of another Rs100 crore. Better air connectivity can add to the company's advantage as it will lead to faster movement of components, many of which have to be brought under controlled temperature," he said, adding, "It is hoped Mihan emerging as a cargo hub will lead to it." Dinesh Keskar , the president of Boeing India, said recent forecast on Indian aviation sector released by the company says that the country will need 1850 new aircraft worth $265 billion in the next 20 years. The purchase of Boeing 787s has also led to India add new routes.Gadkari urged Boeing to develop sea planes which he said can make transportation much easier. He recalled the time when the project was being wooed to Mihan and there were issues over allotment of land to TAL. "It was in 2007, and the site where TAL's unit stands now was a farm with a standing crop of soyabean. The owner was reluctant to leave but was finally convinced. A private businessman having invested in Mihan also gave him Rs20 lakh from his pocket," he said.An emotional Dinesh Keskar ended his speech with Jai Vidarbha, Jai Maharashtra and Jai Hind. The president of Boeing India, who hails from Amravati, graduated in engineering at the erstwhile VRCE (now VNIT) in the city.After starting in English, Keskar ended his speech in Marathi. He said: "I could repay what Vidarbha my homeland gave me by bringing the Air India MRO and TAL to Nagpur. It was here that I got the opportunity to get educated enough to work in the US and achieve so much."Interestingly, the Jai Vidarbha comment came in the presence of CM Devendra Fadnavis and Union minister Nitin Gadkari. The BJP, which fought the last elections on the plank of Vidarbha statehood, is today not making any move for its creation. Keskar's comment hardly raised any eyebrows at the venue.CM Devendra Fadnavis said Nagpur is fast emerging as a hub for aerospace industry. The Maharashtra Airport Development Company (MADC) is in advanced talks with one more company to set up an aircraft maintenance repair and overhaul (MRO) depot in Mihan-SEZ. Later, sources said it was the Gurgaon-based Airworks which is likely take up 20 acres of land."The Air India MRO built by Boeing is already functional, but initially business was not much. It was originally planned to be run by Boeing itself. But due to certain circumstances it was handed over to Air India. I had urged that Boeing should take it back. Though this could not happen so far, Dinesh Keskar has ensured that business goes up. Now Spice Jet will be getting its aircraft overhauled at the Air India MRO," said Fadnavis.