http://www.express.co.uk/travel/articles/720041/Stonehenge-and-Piccadilly-Circus-top-the-list-as-most-OVERRATED-tourist-attractions
100
10
GETTY IMAGES The UK has some of the most underwhelming tourist attractions

The UK is full of weird and wonderful attractions – but not all of them are interesting, as TripAdvisor users discovered. Stonehenge in Wiltshire tops the list as one of the UK attractions tourists have found most underwhelming. The pre-historic monument, according some reviewers on TripAdvisor, is “just rocks” and “the definition of a tourist trap”. Another reviewer described it as being overpriced and in the middle of nowhere. One person said that, as people can’t actually walk up and touch the stones, they may as well just enjoy the view for a few seconds whilst driving by rather than paying to go in.

GETTY IMAGES Stonehenge in Wiltshire is one of the most overrated attractions according TripAdvisor reviewers

The historic UK attraction is not the only one to make the list. Piccadilly Circus was also a “disappointment” for visitors. One TripAdvisor reviewer described the world-famous landmark as “overrated” and “overcrowded”. Another called it an “ultra-light version of Times Square” with not much to see.

Fake tourist attractions Wed, June 1, 2016 From Sleepy Hollow to Baker Street, these tourist attractions may not be all that they seem. Play slideshow IG•Getty 1 of 10 Juliet's balcony, Checkpoint Charlie, Sleepy Hollow and Baker Street. What is the truth about these famous tourist attractions

GETTY IMAGES Visitors described Piccadilly Circus as "overrated" and "overcrowded"

Madame Tussauds, whichever country you are in, seems to be a constant disappointment for visitors, according to TripAdvisor. One person explained: "Oh dear.. I’m not sure who this attraction is aimed for.” Another added there is very little “action inside” and found it difficult to “excite” teenagers. But England isn't the only destination with attractions in the UK that have left tourists disappointed.

GETTY IMAGESA Madame Tussauds, in whichever country, has been described by visitors as not very exciting