http://www.news.com.au/national/politics/opposition-leader-bill-shorten-defends-blocking-samesex-marriage-plebiscite/news-story/4a1fe1c5dcc1858cbd6147334806cb49
100
10
Video

Image Labor moves changes to marriage plebiscite 0:33 Labor has moved changes to the doomed same sex marriage plebiscite bill for a parliamentary vote.

Danielle Le Messurier News Corp Australia Network

PRIME Minister Malcolm Turnbull says the door is still open for same-sex marriage despite Labor “playing politics” and putting party interests ahead of the wellbeing of same-sex couples.

Opposition Lead Bill Shorten announced on Tuesday he would put a stop to the “harmful” plebiscite — rejecting the Government’s election mandate — in a bid to push a free vote in Parliament.

During Question Time, Mr Turnbull deflected a question on whether he would have a free vote in Parliament marriage equality.

Instead, he diverted the blame to Labor, saying the party should vote for the plebiscite if they wanted to see same-sex couples to get married.

“If the members opposite want to stop playing politics, if they want gay couples to get married, if they want them to get married, vote for the plebiscite,” he said.

“All they need to do is vote for it but the reality is the Labor Party wants to play politics with this issue much more than they want same-sex couples to be able to get married ... You are putting politics and your games ahead of the interests of same-sex couples.”

Opposition Leader Bill Shorten defended Labor’s decision to block the Federal Government’s proposed plebiscite.

“Just because they went to the election (with the plebiscite proposal), doesn’t make a bad idea a good idea,” Mr Shorten told the Seven Network this morning.

“Why should gay people in Australia have to go through a lawmaking process that nobody else does? Why do their relationships have an opinion poll?”

Mr Shorten said it was “reckless” to ignore the experience of gay people and mental health experts.

“Nobody will guarantee that they will not be harmed,” he said.

“There is another way to make a law in Australia — you get to hold a vote.”

He added: “The overall view in Australia is just to get on with it.”

Nationals leader Barnaby Joyce told reporters in Canberra that Mr Shorten should simply support the plebiscite if he wanted to see changes to the Marriage Act.

Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, Penny Wong, said it wasn’t good enough to let the same-sex marriage issue stagnate.

“I think what’s important now is to look ahead, and what I would say to the moderates is this: it is not sustainable for you to believe that this issue can simply hang about for the next couple of years, if that is how long this Government lasts,” Senator Wong told reporters at a doorstop this morning.

“Once the Government loses this plebiscite legislation as we anticipate it will, the Government’s position for the moment is we’re going to keep voting for the next two years not to have a vote. That is not sustainable.

“Any Liberal Senator who is prepared to move a Marriage Equality Bill, I’m up for it. If you want to co-sponsor a Bill with me, in the Senate, I’m up for it.”

Senators will debate the same-sex marriage bill in Parliament today, however it’s unlikely to pass without the support of Labor, the Greens and key crossbenchers.

But Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull has reminded Australians not to count their chickens before they hatch, saying: “The bill is before Parliament and Parliament has to do its work.”

Mr Turnbull would not be drawn on whether he would commit to holding a free vote in Parliament on same-sex marriage.

In Parliament on Tuesday night, Coalition MP Warren Entsch said the same-sex marriage issue would continue to be unresolved indefinitely.

“This is exactly what neither side wants. Every issue has its time in the sun, when the national conversation is at its peak,” he said.

“But when that moment passes it can be years before momentum again reaches the point of change — marriage equality is no different.”