https://www.yahoo.com/news/exclusive-sophie-turner-sadly-reveals-195000622.html
1053
10
Sophie Turner did not put a direwolf permanently on her arm.

The Game of Thrones star confirmed to ET's Katie Krause at Variety's Young Hollywood event presented by Pixhug with Vince Camuto in Los Angeles on Tuesday, that the new wolf tattoo she's sporting in a recent Instagram photo really is just "for a new movie," her upcoming film, Hunstville.

"It's not real!" she shared, noting, "And the hair is fake...everything's fake!"

EXCLUSIVE: Sophie Turner Is Exhausted by 'Death Parties' for 'Game of Thrones' Characters

The 20-year-old actress rocks an arm full of temporary tattoos in the film, along with blonde hair -- which is actually her natural color! Even so, Turner admitted that she's excited to trade out the natural locks for the redhead look, as she gears up to reprise her role as Sansa on Game of Thrones season seven.

"I had more fun as a redhead," Turner said of getting back to the massively popular HBO series.

WATCH: 'Game of Thrones' Season 6 Finale Killed Pretty Much Everyone and Revealed a Game-Changing Twist

That's especially true after last season's finale, where we were left with the major (SPOILERS!) Jon Snow Targaryen-Stark lineage reveal, which Turner shared could have some implications for Sansa's connection to her brother when she finds out that he's "pretty much a Targaryen."

"It will be very interesting to see how their relationship develops -- Sansa and John's," she said. "Especially now... her knowing that he's not a Stark. It'll be very interesting."

MORE: 7 of the Most Adorable Moments From the 'Game of Thrones' Panel at Comic-Con

While Sansa and Jon's fate is unknown, Turner raved about her co-star, Kit Harington, calling him "one of my best, best friends in the world and my big brother."

"It's such a blast working with him, and we do kinda have that sibling relationship," she revealed, laughing, "We tease each other, and he really gets under my skin ... He's the best, I love him."

MORE: 'Game of Thrones' Finally Killed [SPOILER] and the Internet Is Freaking Out!

But even though Jon Snow is forever in our hearts, few characters had a more badass transformation last season than Sansa Stark!

"It was everything I'd hoped her character would develop into," Turner said of Sansa taking charge in season 6. "It felt very empowering to be able to do that, and play such a strong character... And it was f**king great having my first kill as well."

MORE: 'Game of Thrones' Star Sophie Turner Defends the Show's Controversial Scene

As for what's in store for the Stark clan, Turner thinks a reunion is in order, but isn't getting her hopes up, acknowledging that Game of Thrones is "not really a people-pleaser kind of show."

Yes, sadly many characters on the show meet very dark endings, so much so that Turner told ET last month the cast had to stop throwing "death parties" for killed-off co-stars because it was getting too expensive!

Watch the video below for more.

Related Articles