http://m.philstar.com/314190/show/58425b25a0b8294d1cd5cdb1c65c0495?t=l1fqqir775k6n0s1k9arska4c2
100
10
Duterte to keep US ties; asks if military alliances needed at all

By Alexis Romero

MANILA, Philippines -- A week after saying he would eventually break up with the United States, President Rodrigo Duterte declared that he would not cut military ties with allies even as he asked whether such partnerships are still needed in a time of powerful weapons and equipment.

The Philippines under Duterte has had an uncomfortable relationship with its traditional ally the US because of the administration’s intensified campaign against illegal drugs that has claimed the lives of more than 3,000 people.

The US has called out Duterte on the alleged summary executions of drug suspects, a move that drew the ire of the tough-talking Philippine leader.

Duterte accused the US of embarrassing him and of meddling in the Philippines’ internal problems and has threatened to end all military exercises between Manila and Washington.

Despite his tiff with the US, Duterte has previously said he would not cut the Philippines’ “umbilical cord” with its allies.

Duterte, however, appeared to have changed tone last week when he said he would reconfigure his foreign policy and might eventually break up with America. He also vowed to seek closer ties with China and Russia, countries that are perceived to be rivals of the US.

The president seemed to have changed his tone again Tuesday as he clarified that he would not cut military ties with the Philippines’ allies. He, however, appeared to have doubts about the need for alliances at all.

“I do not mean to cancel or abrogate the military alliances but let me ask you: Do you really think we need it? If there is a war? If we engage in skirmishes, do you think we really need America?” Duterte said after the oath-taking of new appointees in Malacañang.

“Do we need China and Russia -- for that matter, do we need somebody? If they fight, if they launch ICBMs (intercontinental ballistic missiles) or Poseidon (either a type of US military aircraft or a discontinued US ballistic missile), there will be no more American aid to talk of. There will no more be a country strong enough to rule,” he added.

“When that time comes, we won’t need anything but a priest. If you want, you can recite the mi ultimo adios (National hero Dr. Jose Rizal's 'My Last Farewell').”

Duterte said US should watch its “arrogance” as Russian President Vladimir Putin gets what he wants.

“Let’s not make any mistake. If he wants something, he will really get it. He wanted Crimea and he simply went there to occupy it. America was not able to do anything,” the president said.

In March 2014, the Crimean government declared its independence from Ukraine. Crimea later voted in a referendum to join the Russian Federation. Russia has since annexed the former Ukranian territory.

“So let us go for alliances that would contribute to health, to education, if there’s a world out there waiting for our children. Otherwise, we need to protect them,” he added.

Officials previously claimed that Duterte does not intend to antagonize the US but was merely emphasizing the need for the Philippines to pursue a more independent foreign policy.

Duterte continued with his anti-US rhetoric Tuesday, criticizing the superpower for allegedly imposing its will on the Philippines.

“America, I’m serving notice to you. I cannot tolerate your style wherein you just order us around if they want to,” he said.

Duterte lashed out at the US anew for the deaths of African Americans at the hands of police.

“Tell us why is there now a great divide between the blacks and the (whites). That’s your issue but nobody can question that. Nobody has ever heard (anyone) demanding (an) investigation by the Human Rights (Council) of the United Nations,” he said.

The United Nations has, in fact, criticized the US for instances of police brutality in the past.

“The Working Group is outraged and strongly condemns the new police killings of two African-American men. These killings which were captured on video cannot be ignored. We call for prompt independent investigations to ensure the perpetrators are prosecuted and punished," human rights expert Ricardo Sunga III of the United Nations Working Group of Experts on People of African Descent said in July after two died at the hands of police in Louisiana.

UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon also condemned the killings of police officers in Dallas in July.

"There is no justification for such violence. Those responsible compounded the suffering that many in the United States feel following the killing of two African-American men over two days. Those killings must be the subject of a thorough and impartial investigation," Ban's spokesperson said.