http://www.4-traders.com/PETROLEO-BRASILEIRO-SA-PE-6496795/news/Petroleo-Brasileiro-Petrobras-Brazil-s-Lula-da-Silva-Indicted-in-Corruption-Probe-2nd-Update-23086756/
1014
10
By Paul Kiernan and Luciana Magalhaes

SÃO PAULO -- Brazil's former President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva was indicted Tuesday on charges of corruption and money laundering related to the country's sprawling anticorruption investigation, setting the stage for a showdown that could have major implications for the blockbuster case.

Judge Sergio Moro, who is overseeing the probe known as Operation Car Wash, accepted the charges filed last week by prosecutors against Mr. da Silva and his wife, Marisa Letícia Lula da Silva, who is charged with money laundering.

Mr. da Silva, whose political popularity was immense at the end of his 2003-2010 term, will now face off against a team of prosecutors who have become national heroes for their role in uncovering rampant corruption during the economic boom he presided over.

Mr. and Mrs. da Silva's lawyers denied any wrongdoing by the couple, and said the former president is the target of a political prosecution. No arrest warrants were issued for the couple.

Mr. and Mrs. da Silva now face a trial that will be presided over by Mr. Moro, whose Car Wash probe centers on a bid-rigging and bribery scheme at state-controlled oil company Petróleo Brasileiro SA, or Petrobras.

Though Car Wash has already taken down some of the biggest names in Brazil's business and political circles, a conviction of Mr. da Silva is far from guaranteed. Some legal experts said the evidence prosecutors presented at a press conference last week appeared flimsy, particularly given their characterization of Mr. da Silva as the kingpin of the Petrobras scheme.

"Car Wash has an extremely important role for the country, but the excesses lead us to doubt its intentions," said Daniel Vargas, a law professor at the Getúlio Vargas Foundation in Rio de Janeiro. "I think there has been a politicization of the penal process."

The specific charges against the former president are narrow in scope and involve relatively small amounts of money in a case that has uncovered billions of dollars in graft. Prosecutors allege Mr. da Silva and his wife, Marisa Leticia, received 3.7 million reais ($1.1 million) of improper benefits from a construction company that did frequent business with Petrobras. The benefits allegedly came in the form of construction upgrades to a luxury beachfront apartment and storage costs for the family's personal belongings.

Mr. da Silva has insisted for months that the apartment didn't belong to him or to his wife, and that the construction firm renovated the unit in hopes of convincing them to buy it. "My conscience is clear," the former president said last week after the charges were announced.

Mr. da Silva has sought to portray the allegations against him as an attempt by Brazil's elite to smear his legacy of helping the poor. Leaders of his Workers' Party doubled down on that message last week after the Car Wash task force accused the former president of masterminding a "criminal orchestra" that skimmed 6.2 billion reais from Petrobras.

"At the apex of this criminal pyramid is a political nucleus, and in this political nucleus is Lula," lead prosecutor Deltan Dallagnol said last week.

"They don't want to let Lula be a [presidential] candidate in 2018," Workers' Party chairman Rui Falcão shot back.

At a time when many believe Brazil's politicians are scheming to roll back prosecutors' independence to protect themselves from investigation, political analysts and even the prosecutors themselves have said public opinion can play a key role.

"Our only defense is society," Mr. Dallagnol said in an interview in April.

The prospect of a high-stakes battle for popular support meant that Mr. Moro's decision on whether to press charges against Lula was hotly anticipated, placing the judge in an unusually sensitive position.

In a note accompanying his decision Tuesday, Mr. Moro appeared to seek to downplay concerns about a politicized trial.

"This stage in the process is not the time for a profound examination of the evidence, something that should only be done following...the exercise of the right to defense," Mr. Moro said. "Judgment as to the admissibility of the charges doesn't imply conclusive judgment on the existence of criminal responsibility."

Write to Paul Kiernan at paul.kiernan@wsj.com and Luciana Magalhaes at luciana.magalhaes@wsj.com