http://m.philstar.com/headlines/show/98add26ac29d36d8fb32ead2decdd10b
100
10
Carriers ban use of Samsung Note 7 on flights

By Rudy Santos

MANILA, Philippines - Local carriers banned yesterday the use of Samsung Galaxy Note 7 cellular phones during flights, following the lead of the US Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) against packing the phones into any checked-in luggage after reports emerged of the device exploding during or after charging.

Flag carrier Philippine Airlines and leading low-cost carrier Cebu Pacific followed suit starting yesterday, issuing their respective advisories.

“Philippine Airlines is prohibiting the charging and use of Samsung Galaxy Note 7 devices on board all its flights, effective immediately. PAL is issuing this directive in line with the recall order made on these products by Samsung Electronics Company Limited.”

Findings showed that the Galaxy Note 7 batteries and phone units have caught fire during charging, prompting the manufacturer to recall all units sold worldwide.

Samsung said that only Galaxy Note 7 phones have been recalled due to the factory defect that causes the batteries to explode.

PAL said safety remains a cornerstone of its operations, “and as such, the flag carrier will be ensuring full compliance on board each flight and is seeking the full cooperation of its passengers.”

“In addition, these devices are not allowed as check-in items, but may be hand-carried for as long as these are switched off at all times. All Samsung Galaxy Note 7 units - whether used or brand new - will not be accepted as PAL cargo shipment.”

In a statement yesterday, PAL said it started the prohibition of the use of such devices since Sept. 9, to comply with a directive of the International Air Transport Association (IATA).

The IATA directive was issued following Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd.’s global recall order on the products last week.

The recall is being undertaken as findings showed the Galaxy Note 7 batteries and phone units have caught fire during charging.

Low-cost carriers Cebu Pacific and AirAsia also said they are not allowing passengers to use and charge the Samsung Galaxy Note 7 device while onboard the aircraft.

“We sincerely hope for our passengers’ full cooperation, as the safety of everyone onboard our flights remains our utmost priority,” Cebu Pacific said.

Cebu Pacific (CEB) said: “In light of the recent recall of Samsung Galaxy Note 7 devices due to safety issues, Cebu Pacific advises passengers that the usage and charging of the device are prohibited onboard all CEB and Cebgo flights beginning Sept. 11 until further notice,” the airline said in a statement.

CEB added that Galaxy Note 7 devices must also not be stowed in checked-in baggage, but may be hand-carried as long as the device is turned off at all times inside the aircraft.

AirAsia said their guests might approach any of their ground staff for further information about the new guideline on the Samsung Galaxy Note 7 device.

American television Fox 10 reported claims that a faulty Galaxy Note 7 had set fire to a family’s jeep.

Samsung has said that battery problems were behind the phones catching fire, but that it was difficult to work out which phones were affected among those sold.

The phone was launched last August and has been otherwise generally well received by consumers and critics.

Live Mint consumer report said: “For Samsung, which prides itself on manufacturing prowess, the scale of the recall, which covers 10 markets including the Philippines, is expected to be unprecedented.” – With Louella Desiderio