http://thezimbabwemail.com/headline-13156-mnangagwas-allies-defy-grace.html
100
10
HARARE – As the factional and succession wars devouring President Robert Mugabe’s post-congress Zanu PF continue to escalate, Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa’s allies say the nonagenarian’s controversial wife, Grace, is working overtime to weaken the VP through “devious means” as well as through her proxies.

This emerged at a tense meeting of the Zanu PF Manicaland women’s league that was held in Mutare yesterday, which defiantly overturned a purported vote of no confidence that was passed last week against the regional leader of the structure perceived to be anti-Grace and pro-Mnangagwa.

To underscore the defiance, the highly-charged meeting was chaired by the supposedly suspended provincial women’s league chairperson, Happiness Nyakuedzwa.

Attendees who spoke at the emotive meeting claimed that Grace was using the party’s co-Vice President Phelekezela Mphoko and political commissar Saviour Kasukuwere to annihilate all the perceived allies of Mnangagwa — in the same manner in which former Vice President Joice Mujuru and her supporters had been decimated late last year.

They said Kasukuwere, who is in charge of the party’s divisive restructuring programme, and Mphoko, who heads its disciplinary committee, were working as “a destructive tag team” in pursuit of their and Grace’s claimed agenda to stem Mnangagwa’s alleged presidential ambitions.

All the league’s Manicaland districts, except for Mutare, attended the meeting, while regional minister Mandi Chimene — an avowed ally of the First Lady — was absent from the tense indaba as she had reportedly travelled with Grace to China.

And although the original petition to kick out Nyakuedzwa was said to have been signed by 28 members of the league, 23 of them “changed their minds” yesterday, attending the meeting and endorsing the leadership of their regional chairperson, while the other five sent apologies.

Buhera women’s quarter legislator, Kerenia Uta Chimuso, said at the meeting that she had been called last week by one of Grace’s runners, who told her that the petition against Nyakuedzwa had originated from the first lady’s office. The alleged runner even asked to sign the petition on Chimuso’s behalf.

“I told them that if you sign for me I will have you arrested for forgery,” Chimuso said.

A Buhera delegate also said she had been threatened “for three hours”, after which she had been forced to sign the vote of no confidence petition against Nyakuedzwa.

Another woman revealed that she been told “point blank by Amai (Grace)’s foot soldiers” that all of Mnangagwa’s allies, who include top government officials and senior party officials, would be booted out from the party before year end.

Yet another women’s league member said she had been told by the same runners for the first lady that after Nyakuedzwa’s purported ouster from her position at the weekend, Water minister Oppah Muchinguri-Kashiri and deputy minister Monica Mutsvangwa — wife of War Veterans minister Christopher Mutsvangwa — would be next.”

The deputy political commissar in the provincial women’s league structures, Tendai Nyabanga, also claimed that members had been forced to sign the anti-Nyakuedzwa petition by Grace’s emissaries.

Monica Mutsvangwa, who was part of four national women’s league executive members monitoring the meeting, cunningly tried to absolve the first lady from the debacle, saying Mugabe’s wife would never impose leaders on the people, adding that Zanu PF had a clear constitution which had not been followed in the attempt to dethrone Nyakuedzwa.

“If we follow the constitution, we would not get lost … Zanu PF has procedures that need to be followed. According to the constitution, a vote of no confidence should be passed in a meeting and not clandestinely as happened.

“The first lady does not impose leadership, munhu mukuru (she is too senior to do that),” Mutsvangwa said.

Thus, despite having received the purported vote of no confidence last week, Nyakuedzwa — who stood up against Grace at the first lady’s Chimanimani rally — not only gave a firm signal that she was going nowhere, but also demonstrated that she had the support of the regional structure.

And notwithstanding Zanu PF officials’ frantic denials over the past few days that there are no factions in the party, it was evident at yesterday’s meeting that the party is sharply divided along factional lines.

Meanwhile, well-placed sources told the Daily News yesterday that more senior officials loyal to Mnangagwa were set to face the chop as his party enemies ratcheted up the pressure on him and his supporters.

Last week, a number of youth league leaders in Mashonaland Central who are seen as loyal to the VP — including Godfrey Tsenengamu and Paul Rwodzi — were booted out of their positions on what insiders claimed were “dubious reasons” instigated by a hardline party faction comprising ambitious Young Turks known as the Generation 40 (G40) and who are closely linked to Grace.

“Ngwena (Mnangagwa)’s enemies are going for broke against him and his allies. The G40, supported by Dr Amai (Grace) want to make sure that by the time the party’s December conference in Victoria Falls comes, they would have completely castrated him,” one of the sources said.

Another source claimed that Mnangagwa’s “misfortune” was that “two of his biggest party rivals”, Kasukuwere and Mphoko, were allegedly “squeezing him and his allies” on two fronts.

Two weeks ago, Muchinguri-Kashiri was roasted by Grace who asked her why she was assuming the godmother role in Manicaland, and openly told her that she could be expelled from the party if she became big headed.

This, insiders said, came after Chimene told Grace that the party was facing challenges with senior officials, particularly Muchinguri-Kashiri and central committee member, Mike Madiro, running parallel structures and stalling Zanu PF’s development projects in the process.

Chimene is said to have also informed Grace that Nyakuedzwa had refused to take instructions from anyone else besides Muchinguri-Kashiri.

“Tyson (Kasukuwere) is restructuring the party in a way that disadvantages the VP and his allies.

“On the other hand, Mphoko and Grace are in charge of the national disciplinary committee which always endorses whatever Tyson would have engineered at grassroots level, which means Ngwena is burning on all fronts. It’s a complete hatchet job,” the second source said. – Daily News