http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3847942/Government-lawyer-leaves-High-Court-judge-baffled-defends-Theresa-s-right-start-Brexit-talks-without-Commons-vote.html
100
10
Government insists the PM can do so using the ancient 'royal

Government lawyers 'baffled' senior judges at the High Court today as they tried to see off a court challenge to Theresa May's Brexit powers.

The Lord Chief Justice, Lord Thomas, said he was confused by the case made by Jason Coppel QC.

Mrs May plans to invoke Article 50 of the EU treaties and trigger the start of the Brexit negotiations without calling a vote in Parliament.

The Prime Minister's decision is under attack in a historic legal challenge launched by a group of campaigners, led by former model Gina Miller, 51, referred to as 'concerned citizens'.

Lord Chief Justice Lord Thomas (file picture at the House of Lords in May) today told a Government lawyer he was 'baffled' by his case

They are asking the Lord Chief Justice, Lord Thomas, sitting with two other senior judges in London, to rule that Mrs May has gone wrong in law and is in danger of undermining the sovereignty of Parliament.

They say UK citizens face being deprived of statutory rights granted under the European Communities Act 1972, which made EU law part of UK law, without proper scrutiny by Parliament.

As the evidence concluded today, the judges reserved judgement and promised to deliver a ruling 'as quickly as possible'.

In the hearing this morning, Mr Coppel argued invoking Article 50 without a vote was right and proper because the Government was not seeking to amend EU treaties - something which would require a Commons vote.

It prompted Lord Thomas to remark: 'I am sorry, I am slightly baffled. I don't understand why the content of these rights are not controlled by Parliament.'

Mr Coppel said the case against the Government was withdrawing from the EU amended the rights - and he insisted this was not correct.

He said invoking Article 50 - which contains the EU's divorce proceedings - did not in itself do anything to the rights contained in EU treaties.

By contrast, the court heard later, any new treaty agreement with the European Union following Brexit would 'very likely' have to be ratified by Parliament.

The historic legal challenge launched by a group of campaigners, led by former model Gina Miller, 51 (pictured at the High Court today), referred to as 'concerned citizens'

Another Government QC said the 'view at the moment' was that ratification was likely if the royal prerogative was used to launch the Brexit process.

Mr Eadie told the court there still would be scrutiny.

KEY BREXIT COMMITTEE HAS A MAJORITY OF REMAIN BACKERS The Cabinet committee responsible for Britain's withdrawal from the EU contains a majority of ministers who campaigned to Remain, it has been revealed. Membership of the European Union Exit and Trade Committee was made public when Downing Street published a list of 14 Cabinet committees and seven implementation taskforces appointed by Prime Minister Theresa May. Mrs May herself, who was a low-profile supporter of Remain in this year's EU referendum, will chair the committee of 15 Cabinet ministers. The so-called 'three Brexiteers' Boris Johnson, David Davis and Liam Fox are also members, along with fellow Leave campaigners Chris Grayling, Andrea Leadsom and Priti Patel. But they are outnumbered by ministers who campaigned on the Remain side, including Home Secretary Amber Rudd, who accused the Leave campaign of misleading the public over potential savings from withdrawal in a bitter TV debate clash with Mr Johnson. Others on the committee who backed Remain in the referendum inlulde Chancellor Philip Hammond, Business Secretary Greg Clark, Work and Pensions Secretary Damian Green, Conservative Party chairman Sir Patrick McLoughlin, Scotland Secretary David Mundell, Wales Secretary Alun Cairns and Northern Ireland Secretary James Brokenshire - though the last three will attend meetings only 'as required'. Responding to suggestions that the committee was weighted against enthusiasts for Brexit, Mrs May's official spokeswoman said: 'The Prime Minister and a number of Cabinet ministers who indeed advocated the UK remaining in the European Union have been clear that we are all now there to deliver the decision of the British people, which is to leave. 'Therefore, this is a Government that is all about Brexit, because it is about respecting the will of the British people.'

He argued that a minister using the royal prerogative to trigger Article 50 without prior parliamentary approval would only be 'firing the starting gun' for the Brexit process, and it would not of itself change any common law or statutory right enjoyed by citizens.

Mr Eadie said: 'Any such changes are a matter for future negotiations, Parliamentary scrutiny, and implementation by legislation.'

Mr Eadie said that scrutiny was likely to include Parliament having to ratify any new treaty reached with the EU during the Article 50 process.

The QC said: 'The Government view at the moment it that it is very likely that any such agreement would be subject to ratification.'

But Mr Eadie stressed he could not go further than 'likely' and say it was a certainty.

Leading for the Government yesterday, the Attorney General told the High Court Brexit must happen without a vote by MPs because it 'is the will of the people'.

Mr Wright says Theresa May can legally use her royal prerogative to trigger Article 50 by the end of March and said: 'Once given, will not be withdrawn'.

Campaigners led by former model Ms Miller have mounted a historic challenge to argue that Mrs May cannot leave the EU without the prior authorisation of Parliament.

But Attorney General Jeremy Wright, sent by the Prime Minister to represent her, said that the Government will stand by the result of the June 23 referendum and give effect to 'the will of the people'.

He told three senior judges that Article 50 would be used and that 'notification - once given - will not be withdrawn'.

He added: 'It is our case that Parliament's consent is not required.'

Ms Miller was accused of 'arrogance' as she demanded that Theresa May stages a vote in parliament before invoking Article 50.

Ms Miller, a campaigning former model who is married to a multi-millionaire fund manager, was a supporter of Remain during the referendum campaign and has previously said she 'felt physically sick' when she heard the result.

But the Prime Minister has dismissed her calls of those of her supporters - and took the unusual step of dispatching the Attorney General to argue the case in person.