http://www.express.co.uk/news/uk/720048/nicholas-soames-snaps-over-brexit-parliament-vote-question-lbc
100
10
Sir Nicholas Soames insisted that Parliament must be allowed to have its say on the deal to leave the European Union but was baffled by Clive Bull’s tough questions on how that would work. This comes after the Brexit Secretary David Davis gave a speech in the House of Commons on Monday declaring that MPs would not be allowed to block or delay Britain’s exit from the EU. In a powerful speech to the Commons, Mr Davis insisted that the Government would crush attempts by pro-EU supporters to trigger a parliamentary vote. He said: “We will reject any attempt to undo the referendum result, any attempt to hold up the process unduly, or any attempt to keep Britain in the EU by the back door by those who didn’t like the answer they were given on June 23.”

LBC · GETTY Sir Nicholas Soames was baffled by tough Brexit questioning during a heated LBC interview

It’s not going to have a say… You’re confusing the process Sir Nicholas Soames

During an interview on LBC to discuss the issue, Mr Bull tried to pin down exactly how Sir Soames’ proposals would work, but seemingly riled up the Remain campaigner. Probing the politician, the host said claimed that most MPs would vote against leaving the EU and then asked if it would be anything different voting for the exact deal to leave. Responding to the question, Sir Soames said: “I don’t think that is the case… I think it’s no secret that most members of the House of Commons didn’t want to leave. “The country has spoken and it has spoken – in my view with a substantial majority, the biggest I’ve seen in my 33 years in the House of Commons – with a very substantial majority.

GETTY Sir Soames called for Parliamentary votes on Brexit despite David Davis claiming he won't allow it

“When you have a general election result you don’t like, you don’t have another general election. It’s rather like the East German government – when they got an election result they didn’t like they said that they must elect new people to get a better result.” Mr Bull then interjects the politician, saying: “But you do still say that MPs should have a say in this? “Should they have a vote on when we trigger Article 50 for example?” Sir Soames responds: “There’s no question of a vote on when we trigger Article 50 that’s a decision for the Prime Minister to take – why would Parliament have a say on this? We need to get on with this now.”

Brexit: What does it mean for you? Wed, July 13, 2016 How will pensions, mortgages & house prices be affected by Brexit Play slideshow Getty Images 1 of 11 Brexit: What does it mean for you?

Confused about what the Tory Remainer wants Parliament to do in relation to Brexit, the host pushes him further: “From what you’re saying, you wouldn’t want MPs to have a vote on it?” Sir Soames hits back: “It’s not going to have a say… You’re confusing the process. “It’s not going to happen – there’s not going to be a vote on Article 50. There will be constantly throughout the process a major consultation with Parliament. “Whether or not Parliament votes on the conclusion – I can’t tell you that.”