http://www.asianews.network/content/top-neo-jmb-leader-among-11-killed-bangladeshs-anti-terror-raids-28618
1056
10
In a massive anti-militancy crackdown, 11 suspected militants were killed in Gazipur and Tangail on Saturday.

Seven of them were killed at Noagaon Patartek in Harinal area under Gazipur City Corporation in a drive codenamed 'Operation Spate 8'.

They include Faridul Islam Akash, who allegedly had been trying to reorganise 'Neo-JMB' after the death of its coordinator Tamim Ahmed Chowdhury on August 27, officials say.

DMP's Counter Terrorism and Transnational Crime (CTTC) unit with its bomb disposal unit and SWAT team and Gazipur police conducted the raid from 10 am to 3.30 pm on the first floor of a two-storey building.

Two other suspected militants were killed as members of Rapid Action Battalion (Rab) conducted a separate drive from around 8 am to 10.30 am at a house in Lebu Bagan, just half a kilometre off Patartek.

Based on the tenants' information submitted to police by the houseowner, Rab is suspecting that the two were Rashed Mian and Touhidul Islam from Narsingdi. It will verify if the information is authentic.

Rab members launched another drive in Kagmara area of Tangail town, leaving two other suspected militants dead.

Based on two national ID cards found on the spot, Rab officials said the two were Atiqur Rahman, 20, son of Latifur Rahman, and Sagor Hossain, 25, son of Junaid Hossain. Both were from Charghat, Rajshahi.

Nothing could be known about the six others except that they were youths.

Officials say this is the highest number of militants killed in a single day. Earlier on July 26, nine militants were killed in a raid at a hideout in Kalyanpur.

During the drives Saturday, law enforcers seized seven firearms, including an AK 22 rifle, and a large number of ammunition and machetes.

Law enforcers carried out the operations four days after global terror group Islamic State through its propaganda magazine Rumiyah threatened more attacks in Bangladesh.

Saturday's crackdown followed raids in the capital's Kalyanpur, Rupnagar and Azimpur and Narayanganj which left 14 militants, including Tamim Ahmed Chowdhury, killed.