http://www.businessinsider.com/where-to-travel-without-zika-in-the-winter-2016-10
100
10
Warm weather vacations will be extra-risky this year. Zika has been found in mosquitoes in much of the American hemisphere south of Florida — and the entire Caribbean. That leaves few options for virus-free travels. Though the Zika virus only seems to be especially dangerous to woman pregnant or about to become pregnant, there is still a chance of bringing the virus back with you and infecting others. Here are 11 still (relatively) warm places to go this winter where you won't have to worry about the virus. According to the CDC, these regions have had no confirmed Zika-carrying mosquitoes (yet) so there's no need to stress. After all, isn't travel all about relaxing and not stressing out? View As: One Page Slides

Bermuda Average December high: 70 degrees Bermuda is only semi-tropical, but it's far enough away from the Caribbean out in the middle of the Atlantic to be safe from Zika. It's warm enough to go to the beach on a sunny day, and has all the palm trees you could ask for.

Southern California San Diego average high in December: 64 degrees Southern California boasts a mild climate all year, and that includes in the winter months. San Diego and Los Angeles are huge metropolises will plenty to do and warm temps to boot.

Malta Average temperature in December: 63 degrees

Zika hasn't yet reached the Mediterranean — which is good for those who love their famous mild climate. Malta is an island smack in the middle of that sea, warmer than much of the region, with a booming tourist industry.

Hawaii Average high in Honolulu in December: 81 degrees Hawaii is the obvious choice here. It's Pacific location means it's far away from the centers of Zika. And, yet, it's still incredibly warm even in December. Hawaii should be on the top of everyone's list looking for a stress and Zika-free vacation.

Dubai Average high in December: 79 degrees Dubai is a fast-growing tourism destination that has one big thing going for it: it's very warm. It's located in the dessert, after all. A good choice if you're tired of the tropical vibe but aren't willing to let go of 80 degree warmth.

Australia Average high in Sydney in December: 77 degrees Australia, unlike it's northern neighbors, does not have any reported cases of mosquito-born Zika virus. And that's great news, as you will still be able to snorkel the Great Barrier Reef, explore the outback, and experience all the world class cities have to offer.

South Africa Average high in December in Cape Town: 76 Africa has largely been spared of Zika so far, which means that South Africa is a great place to go on vacation this winter.

Mallorca, Spain Average high in December: 62 degrees Mallorca, Spain isn't the warmest destination on this list, but it's still a great place to go on its off-season. The white sand beaches and blue oceans don't expire, after all.

Uruguay Average high in December: 80 Uruguay is another country there's no need to worry about the Zika virus. Only one travel-related case has been reported — ever. It gets cold enough that the mosquitoes are inactive in the winter months. Uruguay is one of the most socially developed nations in South America, with a distinct local flavor unlike its neighbors. Oh, and of course it has plenty of beaches that are warm enough to experience in the winter months.

Chile Average high in Santiago, Chile: 82 degrees Chile has been spared the Zika of its neighbors as it does not typically have the mosquito responsible for its spread. That's good news for visitors looking to explore South America without the worry.