http://www.india.com/news/india/live-narendra-modi-attends-dussehra-mahotsav-in-lucknow-1550403/
100
10
Live Updates

Load More

Lucknow, Oct 11: Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived in Lucknow on Tuesday to attend the Dussehra Mahotsav. The Vijayadashami event has been organized at the Aishbagh Ramleela Ground. The event has been highly promoted by Lucknow Mayor and BJP vice president of Uttar Pradesh unit Dr Dinesh Sharma. Ahead of his visit, Modi had asserted that “this is going to be a very special Dussehra”. Upon arrival, Modi was greeted at the airport by Lucknow MP and Union Minister Rajnath Singh, UP Governor Ram Naik and Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav.

Political analysts claim that Narendra Modi chose to attend the Dussehra Mahotsav in Lucknow due to BJP’s political interest in the poll-bound state. Apart from attending the Dussehra Mahotsav, the Prime Minister is also expected to speak at the rally. This is Modi’s first public interaction after the surgical strikes carried out by Indian army across the border targeting terror launch pads. As per reports, nearly 35-50 terrorists have been killed by the Indian para commandos in the surgical strikes. Modi is expected to lash out at the section of Opposition who have, in a veiled manner, questioned the claims of surgical strikes by demanding the government to release evidence of the covert operation in public domain. Two prominent politicians – Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) supremo Arvind Kejriwal and Congress leader Sanjay Nirupam had joined the fray of those demanding the government to counter Pakistan’s propaganda.

Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi had made a scatching attack against Prime Minister Modi, accusing him of doing ‘khoon ki dalali’ of the Indian army. Rahul alleged that BJP is politicising the valour of the soldiers to reap political benefits in the poll-bound state. (ALSO READ: Did PM Narendra Modi celebrate Diwali in Kashmir for votes: BJP asks opposition)

Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav has accused Modi of deliberately choosing Lucknow as the destination to celebrate Dussehra, keeping the upcoming polls in sight. However, BJP has denied the charge. Party spokesperson Sambit Patra recalled the visit to Kashmir by Modi in 2014 to celebrate Diwali with the jawans. Opposition never asked whether he visited Kashmir to garner votes, Patra added.

The assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh are expected to be conducted at the onset of 2017. The polls are likely to be held in the month of February-March. The prime electoral battle is likely to be fought between the BJP and ruling Samajwadi Party. However, veteran pollsters claim that Mayawati’s Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) could emerge as the dark horse. Meanwhile, Congress is placed on the fourth position.

The rallies of Prime Minister Modi in Uttar Pradesh, beginning from today, is expected to change the electoral atmosphere in favour of BJP. The party aims to recreate the wave of 2014, when the ‘NaMo’ movement garnered 71 of the 80 parliamentary seats for the BJP.