http://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2016/10/11/world/politics-diplomacy-world/trumpettes-unfazed-donalds-sexist-slurs-allys-pac-paid-assault-victim-critical-clinton/
1053
10
A sexual-assault victim who is critical of Hillary Clinton and who appeared alongside Donald Trump before Sunday night’s debate was paid $2,500 by a political action committee founded by Trump ally Roger Stone.

The Arkansas woman, Kathy Shelton, was sexually assaulted at age 12 and was the victim in a 1975 case in which Clinton was appointed to represent her then-41-year-old accused attacker, Thomas Alfred Taylor. Shelton has accused Clinton of crossing ethical bounds in the case, and over the past few months, Shelton has given TV and video interviews slamming Clinton.

Shelton’s case has been extensively cited in conservative media as evidence that Clinton, the Democratic nominee for president, does not have the best interests of women at heart.

The May payment to Shelton by the Committee to Restore America’s Greatness PAC, founded by Stone, was described as “contract labor” in campaign finance reports filed with the Federal Election Commission. Asked by The Associated Press about the reason for the payment, Stone said in an email that Shelton “was extensively interviewed on video about her experience with Hillary Clinton and was paid for her time.”

Shelton did not respond to a written request for comment left at her home in recent weeks by an AP reporter.

In 1975, Clinton was asked by a judge overseeing the case to represent Shelton’s alleged attacker. After the prosecution lost key evidence, Clinton’s client entered a plea to a lesser charge. In an interview a decade later, Clinton expressed horror at the crime, but was recorded on tape laughing about procedural details of the case. The audio has been seized on by conservative groups looking to attack Clinton’s candidacy.

Stone is a former lobbyist for Trump, the GOP presidential nominee, and has boasted about his role as a bit player in the Watergate scandal. Stone served as a senior adviser to Trump’s White House campaign in its early days. After separating from the campaign early last summer, Stone created a series of pro-Trump organizations. He has said he remains in direct touch with the candidate.

Stone has arranged to pay other women critical of the Clintons.

Earlier this year, Stone sought to raise money to pay off the mortgage of Kathleen Willey, who accused Bill Clinton of making unwanted sexual advances toward her during her time as a volunteer in his White House in the 1990s. Stone claimed in an online video interview that Trump had personally contributed to the fund.

Trump’s campaign has not endorsed Stone’s political action committee, and has sent the group a cease and desist letter. The campaign has denied that Trump gave money to Willey’s mortgage fund.

A company called WeSearchr said on Twitter that it paid for Shelton’s trip to the debate in St. Louis. That firm was co-founded by conservative media figure Charles C. Johnson, an outspoken Trump supporter. WeSearchr says it crowdfunds research about rumors it believes are not being covered by news outlets.

Trump campaign spokeswoman Hope Hicks said in an email Sunday that the campaign paid for Juanita Broaddrick’s travel to the debate. “She was our invited guest,” Hicks wrote.

Broaddrick is a former Arkansas nursing home administrator who first claimed 17 years ago that Bill Clinton raped her during a meeting in Little Rock in 1978. Broaddrick sued Bill Clinton in 1999, but the case was dismissed in 2001. Bill Clinton has long denied Broaddrick’s allegations.

Trump has used the words “slob,” “fat pig” and “dog” to describe women who have challenged him, but his female supporters are standing by him. Last week, a 2005 video emerged in which he boasts that his stardom allows him to grope women at will.

In February, former first lady Barbara Bush said she didn’t understand how women could vote for the 70-year-old real estate mogul.

But the Republican presidential candidate has lots of female supporters and even after the firestorm over his lewd remarks, they are not abandoning him with a month to go before Election Day.

“We’re not voting to find the best husband. We’re looking for a strong leader,” said 63-year-old Christina Lachimia who, like Trump, works in the real estate industry.

“It doesn’t make me not want to vote for him.”

Lachimia was one of several members of the Santa Monica chapter of the National Federation of Republican Women who gathered Sunday to watch the second debate between Trump and Hillary Clinton.

All those present thought the 70-year-old Trump delivered a punishing blow to the former secretary of state, bouncing back from a weekend of controversy that sent fed-up Republican lawmakers fleeing from his campaign.

“I think he won the debate. He definitively stopped the bleeding,” said Linda Grossman, 60, at a home in Santa Monica, a tony suburb of Los Angeles, where the viewing party took place.

For Kari Czer, 65, Trump showed drastic improvement from his performance in the first televised debate between the candidates, when he was “pulling punches.”

“This time, he realized she’s going for the jugular,” Czer told AFP.

About 20 members of the Santa Monica Republican club gathered to watch Sunday’s town hall-style debate — one of the ugliest in recent U.S. political history, full of personal attacks.

With plenty of pizza, soft drinks and wine on hand, the women — and a few men — sat in three rows of chairs, watching the proceedings on a giant flat-screen television.

They applauded with gusto and shouted “Yes!” when Trump fired salvos at Clinton, and booed her numerous times, along with cries of “She’s lying!” and “Shut up!”

In Santa Monica, which is largely Democratic as is the state of California, the “Trumpettes” admit they are in the minority.

But far from defecting from Team Trump, as many top-ranked Republicans did as the video scandal swirled, they are standing by their man.

“His bad boy behavior will not jeopardize the wellbeing of my grandchildren, but her decisions could,” said Donna Block, a 60-year-old optician. “His priorities are the same as mine.”

Lachimia called the video a “distraction.”

In the recording, Trump says, “When you’re a star, they let you do it. You can do anything… Grab them by the pussy.'”

“To me, they are just digging up stuff from years ago,” said Lachimia. “It doesn’t make me not want to vote for him.”

When asked about Trump bringing three women who have accused former President Bill Clinton of sexual harassment and even rape to the debate, Lachimia said: “He’s showing the hypocrisy.”

Block agreed, calling the controversy over Trump’s crude remarks a “joke” and noting her surprise over “the fact that everyone is acting so shocked.”

“I don’t think it’s as much of a problem as turning a blind eye to what’s happening in the Middle East or signing deals that don’t benefit America,” she added.

The woman gathered for debate night also reject other criticisms of Trump’s anti-Muslim, anti-immigrant rhetoric, and insist that many migrants entering the country are not legitimate refugees but violent extremists.

“They’re not refugees. You know they are not from Syria,” said Rohini De Silva, a Sri Lanka-born Christian woman.

“Muslims — why do they come to the U.S. or to the EU? Why don’t they go to Saudi Arabia?”

De Silva wrote a book in which she claims that President Barack Obama is a Muslim — a claim also believed by many other Republicans — and that Islam is “a political-military-religious ideology that seeks to conquer America, just as it has conquered Europe.”

Czer, an evangelical Christian, admitted she did not agree with Trump on “many things,” including the fact that he is not more “god-fearing.”

But she said she was sure of one thing: “I think he will win because he’s been chosen to save America.”