http://www.nytimes.com/2016/10/11/nyregion/for-new-york-citys-homeless-children-getting-to-school-is-the-hard-part.html
100
10
Photo

Family workers carrying caseloads of 256 children at a time. A girl who had transferred to four different schools, one of them twice, by age 11. Attendance reports from multiple agencies, but with none held responsible for making sure that students actually went to school.

These are some of the findings in a report on the obstacles faced by homeless children in New York schools that will be released by the city’s Independent Budget Office on Tuesday. The report, which draws largely on data from the 2013-14 school year, vividly maps out just how difficult it is for students who live in shelters to get an education.

It is a crisis that has grown: Roughly one out of every 13 children in the New York City public school system is now homeless. That figure includes those in the shelter system as well as in other temporary living situations, such as students whose families are staying with relatives because they do not have a home of their own. The report, called “Not Reaching the Door: Homeless Students Face Many Hurdles on the Way to School,” focuses on students in shelters, who tend to face the tallest educational obstacles.

Many of the programs intended to help them are either insufficient or poorly executed, according to the report, while a surge in family homelessness in recent years has strained the system to its breaking point, or perhaps beyond it.

The key issue is getting to school. Children living in shelters attend school significantly less than other students, said Liza Pappas, an education policy and budget analyst at the Independent Budget Office, who wrote the report. Two-thirds of students living in shelters were either “chronically absent” or “severely chronically absent” in 2013-2014; children in the second group attended school less than 80 percent of the time.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“What is it about the shelter living situation that makes reaching the door at school so difficult?” Ms. Pappas said.

One of the biggest problems, according to the report, is the location of the shelters where families are placed. Homeless children have the right to continue at their original school, even if they are moved outside its catchment zone, and the city tries to place families nearby — at least in the same borough as the youngest child’s school — to make continued enrollment easier.

But during the 2014-15 school year, only about half of homeless families were placed in the same borough as their youngest child’s school, the report says. The figure represents a drop of 30 percentage points since 2011. Increasingly, families are being moved further from the neighborhoods they know, and from family and friends who might be able to help them, while facing long commutes to get to school.

Such moves leave parents with an excruciating choice: keep their children in a familiar school, and commit to untold hours spent commuting, or uproot the children further and enroll them in a school closer to the shelter. And because families are often required to move from one shelter to another — sometimes with as little as 24 hours notice, the report said — children can be bounced repeatedly from one new school to the next.

According to the report, during the 2013-2014 school year almost 1,500 homeless children attended three or more schools, a phenomenon “that is rarely observed among the permanently housed.”

The problems begin at the Prevention Assistance and Temporary Housing office in the Bronx, which every family entering the shelter system must visit. While there is an official from the city’s Education Department available to meet with families during the intake process, not a single parent interviewed said they had spoken with anyone at the office about a child’s education.

Once a family is placed, more logistical hurdles await. Some shelters require that parents be present for room inspections, which sometimes occur at night, keeping the children up late, or in the morning, when they need to be readied for and taken to school. One person quoted in the study described applying for public assistance benefits, something many homeless families do, as “death by appointment,” leading to obligations that can consume much of the day and make it difficult to get children where they need to be.

The report also describes many of the programs put in place to help homeless students as underfunded, and communication between the relevant agencies as lacking. For example, the report says, though attendance reports are compiled on the same student by staffs at different agencies, “it was not clear who exactly was accountable for analyzing attendance data or for developing or implementing attendance improvement plans once reports were generated.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

During the 2013-14 school year there were 117 family assistants in the Education Department’s Students in Temporary Housing program, whose duties include helping families navigate the enrollment process and providing transportation to school. Those 117 workers were responsible for almost 30,000 school-age children, or an average of 256 each. The starting salary for a family assistant is $13.22 an hour.

The administration of Mayor Bill de Blasio, a Democrat, has taken steps to increase support for students living in temporary housing. The city is hiring attendance teachers, who keep track of absentees, to work in 23 shelters and sending social workers to 32 schools that serve large shelter populations. It has set aside $10.3 million to fund initiatives like helping families in shelter navigate the middle- and high-school application process. And the Department of Homeless Services is instituting new rules for registering at the temporary housing office in the Bronx, requiring fewer visits with children in attendance.

“Homeless New Yorkers are best served when they can stay in their communities, near work, school and their support systems,” Steven Banks, commissioner of the Department of Social Services, said in a statement. “Right now, the city has a very limited ability to keep homeless households in their home borough due to capacity issues — that’s why we are continuing to expand our homelessness prevention and permanent housing programs and working to open more shelters across the city.”

In the meantime, there are homeless students who, as one attendance teacher put it in the report, just “disappear” from school.