http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3832743/Waleed-Aly-slams-greyhound-trainer-New-South-Wales-premier-Mike-Baird-changes-mind-industry.html
100
10
Waleed Aly has slammed a greyhound trainer who said the industry took care of the dogs.

Following on from New South Wales' premier Mike Baird's backflip to dump his controversial greyhound racing ban, The Project interviewed a trainer who said animal welfare and caring for dogs were a priority.

But host Aly wasn't having a bar of trainer Ken Burnett's comments after the man claimed the industry made animal welfare a priority.

Scroll down for video

Waleed Aly (left) has slammed a greyhound trainer who said the industry took care of the dogs

Greyhound trainer Ken Burnett had told The Project his industry had animal welfare as a priority

Mike Baird will dump his controversial greyhound racing ban after the industry promised to clean up the sport

The Greyhound Racing Prohibition Act banned the practice from July 2017 and threatened anyone who conducted a race with a year in jail

Aly interrupted Mr Burnett, saying: 'Sorry mate, you can't say that. After What we've seen, you can't say animal welfare has always been a priority, it's fine, it's been going generally well.

'No, a significant proportion of the industry has been doing some horrific things for a long time. That's the starting point for this conversation'.

Mr Burnett responded by saying those responsible were a minority, rather than a majority, of the industry, and they'd be punished by a regulator.

Mr Baird will announce the backflip as early as Monday after a cabinet meeting, and begin overturning the law that passed parliament in August after the industry promised to clean up the sport.

Aly wasn't having a bar of trainer Ken Burnett's comments on Tuesday

Mr Baird's change of heart is based on that assurances that greyhounds will no longer be killed, and enacting tough new animal cruelty laws

The Greyhound Racing Prohibition Act banned the practice from July 2017 and threatened anyone who conducted a race with a year in jail.

Mr Baird's change of heart is based on that assurances that greyhounds will no longer be killed, and enacting tough new animal cruelty laws, according to the Daily Telegraph.

New animal cruelty penalties were said to include possible jail time.

The government is also investigating a number of allegations about the industry - including that senior officials at Greyhound Racing NSW were personally involved in live baiting, and that a grave containing more than 50 dead dogs was discovered new Tamworth, the Sydney Morning Herald reported.

A Greyhound Alliance plan presented to government just before the ban was made into law included four guarantees.

There would be 'total life cycle management' for all greyhounds born into the industry, including dogs unable to race or that have retired.

Only 2,000 greyhounds would be bred for racing in NSW every year, plus strict racing standards to prevent injury to dogs.

A Greyhound Alliance plan presented to government just before the ban was made into law included four guarantees including a total ban on live baiting

The greyhound racing ban was prompted by a Special Commission of Inquiry report into the sport

Finally, anyone caught live baiting greyhounds would be banned for life, along with a general 'zero tolerance' approach to animal cruelty.

The greyhound racing ban was prompted by a Special Commission of Inquiry report into the sport that said thousands of dogs were killed ever year and live baiting was widespread.

'It won’t be a green light (to) go back to where it was three months ago,' a source told the newspaper.

'Mike is about stopping animal cruelty. Basically they said ‘we'll guarantee you no wastage".'

The policy change comes days before a report detailing a $30 million compensation package for the greyhound industry, with payments of $1,500 per dog, was due to be handed down.

It found thousands of dogs were killed ever year and live baiting was widespread

The policy change comes days before a report detailing a $30 million compensation package for the greyhound industry

Mr Baird had been under a lot of pressure since announcing the ban, which angered much of the Liberal Party's base voters.

It also threatened to tear apart the Liberal-National coalition as many rural Nationals voters were staunchly opposed to the ban.

Mr Baird's continued support for banning greyhound racing and its increasingly unpopular Sydney lockout laws have tanked his electoral support as well.

The latest NewsPoll revealed that Mr Baird's approval rating plummeted from 61 per cent to 39 per cent, and his dissatisfaction rate had more than doubled.

Two party preferred support for his government dropped from 56 per cent to 51 per cent, while Labor had a five per cent gain to 49 per cent.