http://www.dnaindia.com/mumbai/report-movie-club-appeals-citizens-to-curb-noise-pollution-2247920
20
2
Realizing the harmful effects of loud decibels, especially on patients and infants, members of a Thane-based movie club - Muse, decided to help spread awareness on the same, especially during festivals. A group of 20 members in 2015, stood outside silent zones with messages on the ill effects of noise pollution. While a few mandals responded positively to this message, a few opposed, resulting in violence at few locations.

Despite the resistance faced last year, the group appeals to maximum citizens to participate in the initiative during Ganesh Chaturthi this year. They are also in talks with the police officials of Thane and Mumbai to work with them in curbing decibel levels in silent zones.

"As the festival nears, we are asking for more volunteers to join us. We are planning to stand outside maternity homes and clinics with placards to educate people on the hazards of high decibels on patients and infants. The resistance from the mandals will reduce if maximum people are participating and spreading the same message," said Nishant Bangera, founder of Muse which is a movie club started for like-minded youngsters interested in social, intellectual and art-based film screenings and discussions.

It was during one of these screenings when one member came up with the idea of curbing noise pollution during festivals like Dahi Handi and Ganesh Chaturthi. "He lived in Shrinagar area of Thane. There is a maternity home in front of his house and he noticed that nobody followed noise level rules during festivals. This is how we came up with the "Voice against Noise" initiative, in 2015," he added.

The members visited major locations in Thane and Juhu, where they used mobile-based noise level measuring applications to record the decibel levels. At many places, they found the noise levels exceeding as high as 100-120 decibels, though the permissible limit for a silent zone is only 50 decibels.

The members approached Ganesh Mandals and educated them about the ill effects of noise on critical patients. They requested the groups to stop playing music and drums while passing by a silent zone. While some groups took the initiative positively and muted their loudspeakers or dhol, majority of the mandals opposed it.

"They accused us of only stopping celebrations of Hindu festivals. A few got offensive and did not speak to us properly. At one location, a certain group took our placards and burnt them. Though there were a few who did co-operate, we had many bad experiences," informed Bangera