http://www.freemalaysiatoday.com/category/nation/2016/10/11/people-must-report-bad-practices-in-food-processing-says-dbkl/
100
10
Director of DBKL's health and environment department says public must do away with 'not in my backyard' attitude, and report when hygiene is compromised.

PETALING JAYA: Cracking down on illegal food manufacturing premises is not the responsibility of the authorities’ alone, but the public’s too, says Kuala Lumpur City Hall’s (DBKL) Health and Environment Department (JKAS) director Dr Hayati Abdullah.

She was responding to a recent report by Sinar Harian that alleged the existence of several “rogue” ice factories in the Klang Valley which used waste water to produce ice cubes and ice slabs.

“The public are our eyes and ears. Those who are staying around illegal food manufacturing premises, or possess knowledge of any such premises, should inform the authorities.

“Don’t just be tolerant with a ‘not in my backyard’ attitude,” she told FMT when contacted.

Hayati said the people should channel their complaints to the relevant authorities, as the monitoring of food manufacturing premises falls under the purview of different town councils.

“I urge the communities in KL to work with us and the KL Health Department, which is under the Health Ministry.”

She expressed dismay over the existence of such “rogue” ice factories, saying “I would be ashamed. It reflects poor performance in the monitoring of food safety and sanitation”.

Hayati said the monitoring of food manufacturing factories came under the purview of JKAS.

“Inspections are carried out based on complaints by the public which can be channelled through social media, the DBKL call centre and website.”

(Please link “website” to “ispaaadbkl.dbkl.gov.my/eApps/sdmscasepool/SdmsCasePool/add.do” )

Once a premise is deemed to be unsanitary or unhygienic by JKAS, it would be issued an order to close down, she said.

Meanwhile, Federation of Malaysian Consumers Association (Fomca) Secretary-General Paul Selvaraj said the use of dirty ice in restaurants was a very serious issue as it could cause an outbreak of lethal water-borne diseases.

“People can end up with all kinds of diseases and you won’t know what is the cause of it. The greatest risk is that nobody would suspect the main culprit is the contaminated ice.”

Selvaraj said the authorities, including the Health Ministry and local town councils, must begin to vigorously monitor the food manufacturing sector.

“Normally monitoring is done at the retail end of the store. But, here we are looking at the manufacturing end where the damage can be even more severe.

“When such a product is distributed widely, it can create a major outbreak of contagious diseases.”