http://www.asianews.network/content/prince-mikasa-uncle-emperor-passes-away-31471
100
10
Prince Mikasa succumbed to heart failure at 8:34 am local time on Thursday at St. Luke’s International Hospital in Chuo Ward, Tokyo. He was 100 years old.

The youngest brother of the late Emperor Showa and the uncle of the current Emperor, Prince Mikasa was the oldest Imperial family member since the Meiji era. He was fifth in line to the Japanese throne. With his demise, the Imperial family now has four male members in the line of succession.

Prince Mikasa’s loss was announced at the Imperial Household Agency in Tokyo at 10:30 am local time on Thursday by Takaharu Kachi, supervisor of the Imperial prince’s household affairs.

According to Hirokazu Nagawa, the medical supervisor of the Imperial Household and who also attended the press conference, the prince’s physical condition had been stable in recent days, but at about 7:40 am local time on Thursday, his heart rate began to slow down, and he lost consciousness.

At about 8 am local time, the prince fell into a state of cardiac arrest. His demise was confirmed at 8:34 am local time, with his wife, Princess Yuriko, 93, by his side.

In about 2006, the prince was diagnosed as suffering from mitral insufficiency, a heart condition. In July 2012, a month after the passing of his son Prince Tomohito of Mikasa, his heart condition suddenly started to deteriorate and he had an operation to improve the function of his mitral valve, by stopping his heartbeat and using a heart-lung machine.

It was an extremely rare surgery for a 96-year-old person, but the prince recovered steadily. He remained at his residence until May.

On December 2 last year, Prince Mikasa turned 100 years old. He was in attendance on January 2 when the Emperor and Empress and other members of the Imperial family celebrated the New Year with members of the public visiting the Imperial Palace in Tokyo.

The prince was hospitalised on May 16 for acute pneumonia. His heart condition was found to have deteriorated, and he was placed under observation.

“We continued to extend treatment as best we could. However, we couldn’t help the decline of a heart condition that stemmed from age,” Nagawa said.

Abe mourns loss

Prime Minister Shinzo Abe expressed his “heartfelt condolences” over the passing of Prince Mikasa on Thursday.

“I would like to express my sincere, heartfelt condolences with the people of the nation,” Abe said in a statement.

“(The prince) contributed to the nation’s peace and the people’s welfare," he said.

“As a member of the Imperial family, (the prince) played important roles in a wide variety of fields, including international friendship, sports, recreation, the arts, culture, medical affairs and welfare,” the prime minister said.

Prince Mikasa

Prince Mikasa was born on Dec 2, 1915, as the fourth son of Emperor Taisho and Empress Teimei. He was the youngest brother after the late Emperor Showa, the late Prince Chichibu and the late Prince Takamatsu. His personal title when he was young was Prince Sumi.

After completing his fourth year at the Gakushuin Junior High School in 1932, he entered the Military Academy.

After graduation, he served in a cavalry regiment and studied at the Military Staff College.

During World War II, he served as a China expeditionary army staff officer and an Imperial Japanese Army staff officer at the wartime Imperial Headquarters.

The prince, who was a major when the war ended, opposed the army’s actions during the war.

He received the title Prince Mikasa and started a new branch of the Imperial family in December 1935.

In October 1941, he married Yuriko Takagi, the second daughter of the late Viscount Masanari Takagi.

After the war, he enrolled in the Literature Faculty at the University of Tokyo where he studied Western history and the history of religion as a research student and eventually specialised in oriental history.

Prince Mikasa became a lecturer at Tokyo Woman’s Christian University and Aoyama Gakuin University in 1955, a visiting professor at the University of London in 1975 and a visiting professor in the Faculty of Fine Arts at Tokyo University of the Arts in 1985.

He also attracted public attention when he criticised the wartime military and voiced his opinion against reviving Kigensetsu, the anniversary of Emperor Jinmu’s accession, in relation to the establishment of National Foundation Day.

He had three sons — Prince Tomohito of Mikasa, Prince Katsura and Prince Takamado — and two daughters, Princess Yasuko and Princess Masako.

Prince Mikasa was predeceased by all his sons, as Prince Takamado passed away in November 2002, Prince Tomohito in June 2012 and Prince Katsura in June 2014.

All three of Emperor Showa’s brothers have now passed away. There are currently four male members of the Imperial family who have the right of succession to the Imperial throne.