http://www.presstv.ir/Detail/2016/10/11/488572/US-Russia-tensions
100
10
These are some of the headlines we are tracking for you in this episode of On the News Line:

Deteriorating US-Russia relations

Political tensions between the US and Russia, the brokers of a Syria ceasefire deal, have flared up after the collapse of the truce on September 19. The US which has been carrying out illegal airstrikes on Syria since 2014, suspended Syria talks with Russia on September 3 threatening to take what it called non-diplomatic options to resolve the crisis. On Friday, US Secretary of State John Kerry accused Russia and Syria of targeting civilians demanding that the strikes be investigated as war crimes. Later in the day the White House accused the Kremlin of hacking American political sites and email accounts in an effort to interfere with the upcoming presidential election.



Nigeria crackdown

Nigeria’s Kaduna State Government has issued an order declaring the country’s Islamic Movement in Nigeria, IMN, an unlawful society. The government says the move is aimed at protecting peace and security in the state, and ensuring that all persons and organizations are guided by lawful conduct and with due allegiance to the Nigerian state and its constitution. Friday’s announcement occurs several months after hundreds members of the Shia Muslim group were killed in Zaria by soldiers during a crackdown which has gained notoriety worldwide. Authorities accused the IMN of blocking a road and plotting to kill the army chief. The movement rejected the charges, saying it had been targeted in an extrajudicial killing.



A forgotten war

Scores of people were killed after Saudi warplanes targeted a crowded funeral ceremony in the Yemeni capital, Sana’a. Hundreds of people have also been injured in the assaults. Saturday’s attack has been one the deadliest Saudi-led airstrikes targeting Yemeni civilians. Back in September 2015, Saudi warplanes bombarded a wedding ceremony in the town of Mokha in the southwestern province of Ta’izz, killing over 130 civilians. The victims were mostly women and children. Critics have slammed the international community, which is mainly dominated by the US, for failing to condemn the Saudi atrocities in Yemen.