http://m.philstar.com/headlines/show/c1f0e78847e556eaafa16d398ba1469c?t=f4q9ahuml8bp32mfoe503pv9t0
1014
10
Ex-NBI execs to testify in drug probe vs Leila

By Edu Punay

MANILA, Philippines - The probe being conducted by a panel headed by Sen. Leila de Lima on extrajudicial killings will not stop the Department of Justice from pursuing its probe on her alleged involvement in the illegal drug trade in the New Bilibid Prison (NBP), Justice Secretary Vitaliano Aguirre II said yesterday.

Aguirre hinted that a former National Bureau of Investigation director and agents have come forward to back allegations against De Lima and her reported driver-lover Ronnie Dayan for their involvement in illegal drugs.

The DOJ chief said they would also present a key witness who directly gave De Lima P5 million drug money.

He said that 12 high-profile NBP inmates have decided to give tell-all statements about the role of De Lima in the proliferation of illegal drugs in the national penitentiary.

Unlike Edgar Matobato, De Lima’s witness in the alleged previous involvement of Duterte in the Davao death squad (DDS) killings, Aguirre said they have evidence to back the charges against De Lima.

“The testimonies against De Lima will be 10 times more explosive than that (Matobato’s testimony),” he warned.

Aguirre said De Lima should brace herself for the overwhelming and damning evidence to be presented against her before the House of Representatives inquiry set to start next week.

“We are ready with many witnesses who will say that De Lima is involved in the drug trade inside Bilibid and elsewhere,” he said in an interview yesterday.

Aguirre earlier confirmed that several witnesses had tagged De Lima as beneficiary of drug money from convicted drug lords at the NBP with Dayan as her supposed collector.

The House probe into the alleged NBP drug trafficking operations will be spearheaded by Speaker Pantaleon Alvarez, Majority Leader Rodolfo Fariñas and Minority Leader Danilo Suarez.

They initiated the probe shortly after the President implicated De Lima and Dayan in the illegal activities.

The House committee on justice is expected to lead the congressional inquiry although the committees on public order and security and on illegal drugs may also be tapped.

Earlier, justice committee chairman and Mindoro Oriental Rep. Reynaldo Umali said that Dayan has been summoned to the probe and that his presence in the hearing would be indispensable.

De Lima, on the other hand, has expressed her intention not to appear before the House probe, which she described as harassment by Duterte allies.

The STAR earlier reported that the DOJ has received bank documents, including deposit slips, showing millions-peso deposits to several staff members of De Lima when she was still DOJ chief.

De Lima’s former staff Bogs Obuyes and Jonathan Caranto supposedly received P24 million in their bank accounts. But the two surfaced and denied the charges before the NBI.

Aguirre admitted that there could be several evidence or information intended to mislead or botch the DOJ probe on the controversy, citing the need for verification and validation.

He confirmed receiving the deposit slips published by The STAR, which he said were part of the P88 million alleged deposits to staff of De Lima.

The DOJ chief, however, hinted that they received more information that actually involved over a billion of pesos.

Aguirre said the testimony of De Lima’s witness Matobato at the Senate public hearing yesterday were all lies and an old story revived by the senator in a desperate move to divert public attention from her alleged links to the illegal drugs trade.

Aguirre downplayed the testimony of Matobato, a self-confessed former member of the DDS who tagged the President in their supposed killings during Senate inquiry yesterday.

Aguirre said he would consider asking the NBI to look into Matobato’s statements made before the Senate inquiry and also check if he could again qualify for WPP coverage as discussed by senators in the hearing.