http://www.express.co.uk/news/politics/719922/Tory-MP-Jacob-Rees-Mogg-accuses-Treasury-of-undermining-Brexit-talks-Project-Fear
100
10
GETTY • PA Tory MP Jacob Rees-Mogg accused the Treasury of undermining Theresa May's Brexit talks

Conservative MP Jacob Rees-Mogg today hit back at the “low-quality work” of the Treasury after it emerged Cabinet ministers are still being briefed on Brexit based on studies first published in April. Leaked documents have revealed top Government figures are being warned leaving the EU single market and failing to agree a post-Brexit trade deal with the bloc will cause a huge drop in GDP and £66billion a year shortfall in tax revenues. The warning of an annual £66billion drop in tax revenues is understood to be a “worst case” figure and based on Britain quitting the single market and relying on World Trade Organisation (WTO) rules for continued trade with the EU.

The estimates for what has been dubbed a ‘hard’ Brexit are taken from the Treasury’s previous study into the effect of leaving the EU, produced under ex-Chancellor and ‘Project Fear’ architect George Osborne. That study has been widely discredited among pro-Brexit economists and now stands at odds with Britain’s resilient economic performance since the June 23 vote. Mr Rees-Mogg claimed the ongoing use of the pre-referendum Treasury study will harm the Prime Minister’s position when Brexit negotiations begin with Brussels. Theresa May has vowed to end uncontrolled EU immigration and gain the best access to EU trade possible in the upcoming talks, to begin when Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty is triggered before March next year. Mr Rees-Moggg told Express.co.uk: “It undermines the Government’s negotiating position in the EU. ”It’s thoroughly irresponsible for the Treasury to be producing documents that will encourage the EU to offer us a bad deal. “There’ll say, if it’s a disaster for you to revert to WTO then you’d better stay in the single market and then you’ve got to have free movement. “So the Treasury is undermining the work of every other department.”

The Treasury is undermining the work of every other department Jacob Rees-Mogg

The North East Somerset MP, a member of the House of Commons’ influential Treasury Select Committee, said the Prime Minister’s resolve to crack on with Brexit should force Treasury officials into a rethink. He said: “I think the Treasury should look at things realistically now that it’s got a Government that’s decided Brexit is a) going to mean Brexit and b) is going to be made a success of. “And therefore there’s no longer a need to have worst-scenarios, they need to have realistic ones.” He added: “Most of the things the Treasury’s been saying have so far been wrong, and therefore it’s very hard to have any confidence in its future predictions.”

Britain votes to LEAVE EU Fri, June 24, 2016 LIVE: UK set to leave the EU as projections across several news websites claim Britain votes out. Play slideshow REUTERS 1 of 71 Nigel Farage, the leader of the United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP), makes a statement after Britain voted to leave on the European Union