http://www.nytimes.com/2016/08/26/world/asia/north-korea-manbang-netflix.html
100
10
Photo

HONG KONG — Days before North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, successfully tested a ballistic missile that he said could hit parts of the continental United States, his reclusive regime unveiled another technical triumph: a Netflix-like streaming service.

Called Manbang, the service delivers on-demand videos to televisions through a set-top box, Korean Central Television said in a report last week.

In the report, a narrator says that Manbang is further proof of North Korea’s “socialist cultural power,” which will allow its people to watch their country “make a leap forward every day, every hour.”

Very few of the country’s roughly 25 million citizens are permitted access to the actual internet. Content that can be streamed is largely restricted to state-run television and propaganda-filled movies.

According to the report, in addition to news reports and updates on Mr. Kim’s daily activities, Manbang also offers language courses in English and Russian.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Manbang was “elevating the people’s cultural life a step up by allowing them to watch what they want any time they want,” a man identified as Ju Dae-hyun, a telecommunications official in Sinuiju, a town near the Chinese border, said in the report.

And Kim Kum-hee, a kindergarten teacher in Sariwon, said that Manbang’s video-on-demand service resolved the headache of children clamoring to binge-watch their favorite movies. “Now they are glued to the TV screen for hours a day,” she said.

Today’s Headlines: Asia Edition Get news and analysis from Asia and around the world delivered to your inbox every day in the Asian morning. Sign-up for free NYT Newsletters Morning Briefing News to start your day, weekdays Opinion Today Thought-provoking commentary, weekdays Cooking Delicious recipes and more, 5 times a week Race/Related A provocative exploration of race, biweekly Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

North Korea’s ruling ideology, known as Juche, calls for self-reliance in all matters. In this spirit, the country has also said it developed its own computer operating system, Red Star, which appears to mimic Apple’s Mac OS X.

The country has also said it developed its own tablet computers, including the Android-based Samjiyon, according to North Korea Tech, a website that monitors the country’s technological strides.

North Koreans rely on smuggled electronics to watch overseas media, anecdotal reports suggest. The government is trying to rein in the illegal use of Notetels, small Chinese-made media players that can read smuggled DVDs or USB sticks, Radio Free Asia has said.

Netflix, which began an aggressive global expansion plan this year, has taken note of its newest competitor. On Thursday, its American Twitter account description read “Manbang knockoff.”