http://nation.com.pk/national/11-Oct-2016/pm-challenges-ecp-jurisdiction-over-panama-leaks
100
10
ISLAMABAD - Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif on Monday challenged the jurisdiction of the election commission to hear petitions against him on Panama leaks, as election commission adjourned hearing of disqualification pleas until November 2.

Hearing the case on Monday, Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sardar Raza Khan directed for clubbing the objections raised against the petitions together for hearing on daily basis. He remarked that the commission would decide the jurisdiction issue first.

Prime Minister’s counsel, former Attorney General Salman Aslam Butt while submitting the reply in the election commission also filed a petition questioning the jurisdiction of the commission’s hearing.

In his petition, Nawaz Sharif held all allegations leveled against him were baseless and unfounded, saying he had no association with any offshore company mentioned in Panama Papers.

The petition also said that the election commission was not competent forum to hear these petitions and sought their dismissal.

The government counsel also submitted replies of Punjab Chief Minister Shehbaz Sharif, Finance Minister Ishaq Dar and MNA Hamza Shahbaz.

Meantime, election commission also directed the PM’s counsel to file reply on petition of Pakistan Awami Tehreek (PAT).

The election commission also sent notice to Imran Khan for hearing of Shah Nawaz Dhilon’s petition for his disqualification and also for a reference forwarded by National Assembly Speaker Ayaz Sadiq, to the commission.

The commission will also hear disqualification petitions against Jahangir Tareen, Liaquat Tarakai and Capt Safdar on November 2.

Imran accuses Nawaz of lying

Meanwhile, PTI Chairman Imran Khan has accused the prime minister of hiding the name his daughter Maryam Nawaz as one of the dependents.

In a press statement issued here, he alleged that the prime minister yesterday submitted his response to the ECP in connection with Panama leaks case in which he has deviated from his previous statements that Maryam Nawaz Sharif is one of his dependents.

“This is yet another white lie by Prime Minister Sharif”, Imran Khan alleged and said he would take the PM in the court come what may.

Imran Khan warned that any attempt to temper the ECP record pertaining statements and declaration will have serious consequences.