http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/720071/Volcano-Canary-Islands-could-be-as-bad-as-Iceland
100
10
Getty Mount Teide in Tenerife, which could see a major eruption

Harri Geiger and Abigail Baker said if the Spanish islands suffer an eruption it would be on a similar scale to that of Eyjafjallajokull in 2010 that affected some 5,000 flights. The pair, from Sweden's University of Uppsala, said monitoring magma migration was key for detecting early signs of an explosion as well as being able to mitigate its effects. Mr Geiger said: "The emergence of shallow pockets of magma probably plays an important role in the eruptive style of the volcano and therefore should be considered in order to mitigate risks. "We believe that these findings have implications for volcanoes in Iceland, Cape Verde and the Canary islands."

Getty Mount Teide on the Spanish island of Tenerife

On the edge of Volcanoes Wed, August 3, 2016 These are the explosive images of some of the worlds most astonishing volcanic eruptions. Spectacular snaps capture lava spewing down the side of Kilauea, ash spitting from craters and plumes of smoke rising thousands of feet in the air. Play slideshow AFP/Getty Images 1 of 44 Indonesian residents look at the Mount Sinabung volcano as it spews volcanic ash near the Tiga Pancur village in Karo, North Sumatra on August 3, 2016

He added: "Magma is stored at the bottom of the crust and there are also shallow magma chambers in the upper part of the crust. "These shallow cavities seem to migrate in times of volcanic inactivity and can play a crucial role in the eruption process. "There are also migrations to shallower waters where magma increases its explosive potential. "A longer time between eruptions increases the likelihood of the next eruption to be more explosive, very similar to the eruption of Eyjafjallajökull in Iceland in 2010".

Getty Mount Teide in Tenerife

There are also migrations to shallower waters where magma increases its explosive potential. A longer time between eruptions increases the likelihood of the next eruption to be more explosive, very similar to the eruption of Eyjafjallajökull in Iceland Harri Geiger

While Ms Baker said: "Our message to the monitoring team is that they should focus on the seismic signals of magma migration from about 20 kilometres deep because such signals are very likely to precede eruptions.” The news comes after Tenerife experienced around 92 microquakes in the space of four hours, giving Spanish geologists cause for alarm with fears being expressed that Mount Teide could be on the verge of exploding. Earlier this month, The Volcanology Instiute of the Canary Islands (Involcan) sent a team to the area to measure the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere which they described a “seismic swarm” and “abnormal for the area”.

Getty Iceland volcano erupts

Involcan director Nemesio Perez said there was no immediate cause for concern and the team are continuing to monitor activity of the 12,000ft mountain which is the highest peak in Spain. The mountain sits in a 47,000 acre national park. The volcano has been dormant since 1909 when it last erupted but is still considered to be structurally unstable with its last seismic activity happening in 2003 when a rift opened up on the north-east side.

Getty Quantas air passengers suffer delays due to the Icelandic volcano