http://www.philstar.com/headlines/2016/10/11/1632538/house-body-cites-dayan-contempt-orders-his-arrest
100
10
MANILA, Philippines (Philippines News Agency) — The House of Representatives Committee on Justice on Monday cited in contempt and ordered the arrest of Ronnie Dayan, former driver of Sen. Leila de Lima, for failure to appear before the congressional inquiry into the illegal drugs trade inside the New Bilibid Prison (NBP).

Majority Floor Leader Rodolfo Fariñas led the motion of contempt citation, noting that Dayan has not provided a justifiable excuse for snubbing the House probe.

“During the last meeting, we initially cited him (Dayan) in contempt but I moved to reconsider it considering that he has not been given a chance to explain his failure to appear,” said Fariñas, adding that a show cause order was given to Dayan directing him to explain in writing within 24 hours from receipt why he should not be cited in contempt.

READ: Dayan a no-show at House probe despite subpoena

Fariñas said the show cause order was duly received by Paul Edward Dayan on October 8.

Twelve members, or more than two-thirds, of the House justice panel stood in favor of the motion.

Headlines ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1

“Ronnie Palisuc Dayan is therefore being held in contempt by this committee and correspondingly a warrant of arrest be issued against him to compel his presence,” said Mindoro Oriental Rep. Doy Leachon.

Several witnesses pinned Dayan as the alleged drug money bagman of former Justice Secretary and now Sen. De Lima. According to President Rodrigo Duterte and most of the witnesses, Dayan is De Lima’s lover, hence her supposed trust to the driver.

Only convicted witness Jaybee Sebastian claimed he does not know Dayan. He instead pinned De Lima’s security aide, Joenel Sanchez, as the lady senator’s bagman.

House Committee on Justice Reynaldo Umali said the probe into the alleged proliferation of the narcotics trade inside the NBP wrapped up on Monday evening. He said other House panels might still conduct a hearing related to the revelations from their inquiry and their committee might still resume probe when Dayan gets arrested.

Umali said he is sure the Department of Justice and the intelligence community would not let Dayan escape the country as he plays a huge role in the alleged drug trade. PNA/Filane Mikee Cervantes with reports from Rosette Adel