http://thezimbabwemail.com/zimbabwe-3756-sacked-minister-destroys-farm-plans-to-leave-the-country.html
100
10
MASVINGO – Disgruntled former Masvingo Provincial Affairs minister Kudakwashe Bhasikiti has destroyed his Moria Farm along the Beitbridge-Masvingo road, due to his fall-out with president Robert Mugabe and Zanu PF.





Nehanda Radio sources said Bhasikiti who has been running the farm he grabbed at the height of the violent land reform programme employed his “youths” to cut down all mangoes and orange fruits.

“He has ordered that all the mangoes be cut down and only a small strip be left along the road so that no one notices that the fruit trees have been destroyed,” a close source said.





Last week Bhasikiti was fired from government as a minister and has since been replaced by Shuvai Mahofa. In a statement, the Chief Secretary to the President and Cabinet, Misheck Sibanda confirmed that Bhasikiti has been dismissed from his post as minister.

The statement reads “In terms of section 108 (1a) of the constitution of Zimbabwe, His Excellency, the President has terminated the employment of Honourable Kudakwashe Bhasikiti Chuma as Minister of State for Masvingo Province as his conduct had become inconsistent with his prescribed duties and functions.”

As the factional fights took a new twist in Zanu PF, Bhasikiti filed a lawsuit suing his Zanu PF counterpart and Central Committee member Tafadzwa Shumba.





Shumba played a crucial role in the ouster of Bhasikiti whom at one time President Robert Mugabe accused of belonging to the wrong basket.

Sources in Moria Farm said Bhasikiti has instructed that the trees be cut and that he has plans to leave the country.

Contacted for comment Bhasikiti said “We are pruning our our old branches which no longer bear fruits. You can come see the ones we removed last year. They develop good shoots.”





In an interview with Nehanda Radio, Shumba said Bhasikiti is a bitter man who wants to sabotage implementation of ZimAsset.

“This barbaric behaviour is unacceptable and we urge our leader, the new Masvingo minister Mahofa to take drastic action to stop this nonsense.”

“We want our people to enjoy fruits of the land reform and now here is someone who has lost direction and is bent on destroying our natural resources,” he said. Nehanda Radio