http://asianews.network/content/malaysia-sets-special-force-fight-terror-31496
100
10
Malaysia is taking the fight to the terror groups, especially the Islamic State network, by forming a special tripartite force.

The National Special Operations Force (NSOF) will be a group selected from the police, Armed Forces and Malaysian Maritime Enforcement Agency (MMEA).

NSOF, under the purview of the National Security Council (NSC), will initially comprise 17 officers and 170 personnel.

Najib Tun Razak, who made the annoucement, said the force had trained for six months and would be the first responder to any terror threat.

“They can be deployed at a moment’s notice. I am confident the force will be successful in safeguarding the country’s peace and security, given the current threats,” the prime minister said before the launch of the NSOF at the Kem Perdana Sungai Besi where it is based.

Defence Minister Hishammuddin Hussein, Attorney-General Apandi Ali and Deputy Inspector-General of Police Noor Rashid Ibrahim were also present at the event.

The role of the force was to remove any threats on land or water and to prepare contingency plans to face all forms of threats, it was announced.

Based on the National Blue Ocean Strategy of sharing assets and capabilities, the NSOF would be under a single chain of command, Najib said.

He said that at the start, NSOF personnel would be seconded from the police, Armed Forces and MMEA.

Designated posts would be assigned once the unit became operational to prevent any disruption of the agencies involved, he noted.

The prime minister said the formation of the unit was a testament to the government’s commitment to not compromise on the country's peace and security.

“We have learnt from history, from battling insurgency to facing the threats of Al-Mauna and Kumpulan Militan Malaysia," he pointed out.

“Not a day goes by without a terror incident occurring in the world, so we must be prepared at all times,” he said, adding that the NSOF was “near operational.”

So far, 32 Malaysian militants have died fighting in Syria, while 60 are still there, supporting the Islamic State.

Najib said that if a threat occurred, the NSC would prepare a report for the inspector-general of Police and Armed Forces chief who would then consult him.