http://www.freemalaysiatoday.com/category/business/2016/10/11/samsung-shares-slump-while-london-hits-highs/
100
10
Stock in the world's biggest smartphone maker tumbled eight percent, sending Seoul stocks sliding 1.2 percent after the tech giant told customers to stop using their Galaxy Note 7 devices.

Shares in Samsung Electronics tumbled Tuesday after the company junked its Note 7 smartphone, while the anaemic pound helped push Britain’s stock market to a record high.

The weak pound, flailing in the wake of Britain’s June vote to quit the European Union, helped push London’s FTSE 100 index of top blue-chip companies to 7,129.83 points, beating the previous record high set on April 27, 2015.

“There’s been two key factors driving the FTSE to record highs,” Oanda analyst Craig Erlam told AFP.

“The first is the dramatic depreciation of the pound, as a large proportion of FTSE 100 company profits are generated abroad. The weak pound therefore boosts earnings in sterling terms.”

The pound has lost nearly 18 percent since British voters narrowly approved the Brexit referendum.

XTB’s David Cheetham noted that with over 80 percent of revenues of FTSE 100 companies generated in currencies other than sterling “a depreciation of the pound gives the index a de facto boost.”

The other factor was Monday’s rebound in oil prices which helped buoy FTSE 100 index which is heavy in energy related companies.

“A rise in the price of oil is obviously beneficial for these companies as it increases their profitability,” said Erlam.

Oil prices soared Monday in response to comments from President Vladimir Putin that Moscow was ready to align with OPEC’s push to limit output and address a supply glut.

But the International Energy Agency warned Tuesday that the glut may weigh on world markets deep into next year — unless the OPEC producer cartel makes good on its promise to cut output



‘Incendiary effect’

As London soared, elsewhere Samsung’s woes dominated.

Stock in the world’s biggest smartphone maker tumbled eight percent, sending Seoul stocks sliding 1.2 percent after the tech giant told customers to stop using their Galaxy Note 7 devices and called a halt to worldwide sales as US officials warned the handsets could blow up.

The group halted production on Tuesday and then announced it was scrapping the model, once markets had shut in Asia. Samsung advised consumers with Note 7s to power down and stop using them.

The announcement came a little over a month after Samsung announced a recall of 2.5 million Note 7s in 10 markets following complaints that its lithium-ion battery exploded while charging.

“The group’s flagship handset has turned out to be worse than a dud — it is a dangerous fire risk,” City Index analyst Ken Odeluga told AFP.

“This incendiary effect has spread to Samsung’s shares.”

Odeluga added that Samsung had a big impact on sentiment because of its huge market capitalisation of more than $200 billion (179 billion euros).

“If Samsung catches a cold, so do the region’s equities.”

The crisis has turned into a PR disaster for the company and the situation only worsened when reports emerged a week ago of replacement phones also catching fire.

Analysts noted fierce rivals like US giant Apple — the second biggest smartphone maker — and challengers such as China’s Huawei would benefit in the short term.

Apple shares jumped 2.1 percent at the open on Wall Street.

“Samsung shares have fallen sharply today, but the company is still trading not too far off a record high, which shows that despite problems with its smartphone design, this is only one line in its gigantic electronics empire,” said Laith Khalaf at stockbroker Hargreaves Lansdown.