http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/sasikala-pushpa-writes-to-tamil-nadu-governor/1/784657.html
1043
10
Highlights 1 Expelled AIADMK MP Sasikala Pushpa writes to TN governor

2 Fear people close to her may forge CM's signature, she says

3 May be done to nominate her deputy in party, she claims

Expelled AIADMK Rajya Sabha MP Sasikala Pushpa, in a letter to the Governor of Tamil Nadu, has said that she fears that someone close to Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa might forge her signature to nominate a deputy in her absence.

The letter comes at a time when Jayalalithaa's confidante Sasikala Natrajan is being widely projected as party's de facto in-charge even as Jayalalithaa continues to be in the hospital.

FEAR OF FORGERY

In her letter to Governor C Vidyasagar Rao, the MP writes: "It is feared that some people around Tamil Nadu Chief Minister, now hospitalised, may forge her signature to nominate a deputy general secretary to AIADMK and to run the government also".

ALSO READ: Tamil Nadu government lacks proper direction with Jayalalithaa still in hospital, says Karunanidhi



Earlier speaking to mediapersons in New Delhi, she had demanded a CBI inquiry into the health condition of Jayalalithaa. "It should be found out that whether she fell sick naturally or was forced to become sick," Sasikala said.

ATTEMPT TO GAIN POWER



She had alleged that Sasikala Natarajan, in the name of Jayalalithaa, was "controlling all the officers in the state and trying to gain power within the party".

ALSO READ: Jayalalithaa's health: Chennai Police arrest 2 for spreading rumours

She had also accused state government officials of working under the influence of a certain party leader rather than the chief minister.

Also read:

Opinion: Everyone says Jayalalithaa is fine



"Tamil Nadu is without a leader. We are like a child who lost its mother. People around the CM are trying to take advantage of this situation," she said.

ALSO READ: Jayalalithaa's health improving, likely to be discharged soon, says Kerala Governor

The expelled leader is facing heat over the sexual assault case filed against her and her husband and son on the complaint of her domestic help.

ALSO READ: In absence of Jayalalithaa, DMK demands appointment of new CM

ALSO READ: As Jayalalithaa remains in hospital, storm brews in Tamil Nadu's political cup

