http://www.asianews.network/content/depression-be-leading-cause-disability-2020-30069
100
10
Depression is currently the second leading cause of disability in the world.

“It is expected to rank No.1 by 2020,” said Malaysian Mental Health Association deputy president and consultant psychiatrist Andrew Mohanraj Chandrasekaran.

This means that depression has even overtaken disability due to cardiovascular disease, which is also on the rise globally, he pointed out.

In Malaysia, the National Morbidity Survey 2015 found that 29.9 per cent of the adult population has some form of mental illness. The figure was 10.7 per cent in 1996.

“In just 20 years, it has gone up almost three times,” Chandrasekaran stated in an interview in conjunction with World Mental Health Day yesterday.

The survey registered that 12.1 per cent of children aged between five and 15 had mental health issues.

Chandrasekaran explained that this included cases, such as conduct disorder, attention deficit disorder, hyperactivity disorder, as well as depression and anxiety.

“It’s quite difficult to detect depression in teenagers because some of them could have turned morose due to hormonal changes or other aspects of growing up,” he noted.

However, he was quick to point out a worrisome increase in the suicide rate among young people, with the primary cause being depression.

“When young people commit suicide, it does not necessarily mean that they want to die. They want to leave the world because they find their situations, in their perception, intolerable and without any other escape,” he said.

Befrienders Kuala Lumpur Chairman Mary Raj said there has been “a drastic rise” in younger people contacting the organisation for help.

“The younger generation prefers sending email rather than calling in, and we have had a huge increase in the emails we receive from them,” she said.

Last year, the organisation received 18,445 calls and 2,685 email messages.

Of these, 44 per cent of those who emailed were aged 30 years and below, while 47 per cent did not reveal their age.

Of those who contacted the Befrienders, 24 per cent suffered from mental health issues, while 17 per cent had relationship issues.

Other callers faced family problems and job- or sex-related stress but on a much lower percentage than that of mental health issues, according to Raj.

Raj said they occasionally received calls from people on the brink of committing suicide.

“We keep the callers engaged in conversation for as long as possible to lower the risk of them going ahead with their plan," Raj remarked.

“For high-risk groups, we ask if we can call them back tomorrow and if they are willing to give us their contact numbers," Raj added.

“We then make follow-up calls to find out if they are okay,” she said.