http://www.freemalaysiatoday.com/category/nation/2016/10/11/go-learn-from-malaysia-canadian-ministers-advised/
101
10
Opinion piece in Canadian newspaper says Malaysia way ahead of Canada in many crucial areas, although both have many similarities.

OTTAWA: Some Malaysians might be surprised to learn that there are Westerners who consider Malaysia a good model to emulate.

An opinion piece in the Terrace Standard of British Columbia, Canada, calls on the Canadian Government to learn from Malaysia.

The opinion piece, by Andre Carrel, a retired public sector administrator, says: “While the country is still classified as an emerging economy, the World Economic Forum’s (WEF) 2015-16 Global Competitiveness Report Index shows that Malaysia outperforms Canada in the areas of macroeconomic environment, of goods to market efficiency, and of business sophistication and innovation.”

He advises Canadian ministers to fly to Malaysia to find out how the nation is doing better than Canada.

Carrel says his interest in Malaysia was piqued after reading news about Canada approving Petronas’ application to develop an LNG project.

In finding out about Petronas, he also found out about Malaysia.

Petronas was created one year before Canada created Petro-Canada.

He says Petronas’ annual revenue exceeds CD130 billion, nearly half the annual revenue collected by the Canadian Federal Government.

He observes the many similarities between Malaysia and Canada, including a legal system based on English common law and governance based on the British parliamentary system.

He said WEF data show that today Malaysia outperforms Canada in its capacity for innovation and in company spending on research and development.

“Adding insult to injury, Malaysia also records better gross national savings and lower general government debt as a percentage of GDP than Canada does!”

He says Canadian ministers would profit by going to Malaysia “to learn how a country governed by the same parliamentary and common law systems as ours, has managed, after only 60 years of independence, to outperform us in national savings and general debt while at the same time developing a corporation (Petronas) producing revenues to cover one third of its national government budget.”

He goes on to talk about natural gas and how it might not be a good idea, economically and ecologically, for Canada to get involved in this.

Carrel says: “We must end our focus on peddling non-renewable resources on the promise of short-term jobs and billion dollar dreams. We should learn from Malaysia how to develop and implement a national plan to benefit society for the long term.”