https://in.news.yahoo.com/latest-trump-says-ryan-makes-hard-him-well-120329208--election.html
100
10
Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump arrives to speak during a campaign rally, Tuesday, Oct. 11, 2016, in Panama City, Fla. (AP Photo/ Evan Vucci)

WASHINGTON (AP) — The Latest on the U.S. presidential race (all times EDT):

12:05 a.m.

Donald Trump is urging his supporters to vote on Election Day - but he got one key fact wrong.

In the opening moments of a rally Tuesday night in Palm Beach City, Florida, Trump told the crowd to "make sure you get out and vote, Nov. 28."

The problem with that advice? Election Day is actually Nov. 8.

Later in the rally, Trump correctly listed the date.

___

10:45 p.m.

A Republican congressman from Texas is apologizing after suggesting in a television interview that he'd "consider" endorsing Donald Trump even if the Republican presidential nominee said he liked raping women.

In an interview Tuesday with MSBNC, Rep. Blake Farenthold was asked if he would endorse Trump if a tape surfaced with Trump saying "I really like to rape women."

Farenthold struggled to answer but eventually responded "that would be bad, and I would have to consider, I'd consider it."

Later, Farenthold used a series of three tweets to apologize for "my failure to immediately condemn anyone who would say something as outrageous as they like raping women."

Farenthold said he was "thrown off by the anchor's use of a hypothetical question."

___

10:06 p.m.

Trump is kicking off a rally in Panama City, Florida, by alleging that hacked Clinton campaign documents show that Hillary Clinton "is the vessel (of) a corrupt global establishment that's raiding our country and surrendering the sovereignty of our nation."

He's praising Wikileaks for releasing the documents and providing voters a "window" into "the secret corridors of government power."

Trump is also repeating his threat to appoint a special prosecutor to investigate Clinton's use of a private email system during her tenure as secretary of state. The Justice Department investigated and in July did not recommend criminal charges against Clinton.

Trump says, "We have to investigate Hillary Clinton and we have to investigate the investigation."

___

8:45 p.m.

Donald Trump says that Hillary Clinton was the one who got into his personal space on the debate stage, not the other way around.

The GOP nominee was often captured on camera at Sunday night's town hall-style debate looming behind Clinton or pacing as she spoke.

But Trump insisted Tuesday on Fox News Channel's "The O'Reilly Factor" that he "never walked near her."

He says, "I was at my lectern and all of a sudden she walks right over to me, stands right in front of me and the next day I read that I was in her space."

"She came into my territory," he added. "I was standing at my lectern and all of a sudden from nowhere she walks right in front of me."

Clinton said after the debate that she was aware that Trump stood very close to her as she answered some questions, but that it was a "very small space."

___

8:25 p.m.

Hillary Clinton's campaign says the FBI is investigating the criminal hacking of the Democrat's top campaign adviser.

John Podesta says he was in touch with the FBI on Sunday and alerted of the investigation. He says the campaign has also been told that the investigation into Podesta's email is part of the ongoing investigation into the hacking of the Democratic organizations by Russian intelligence.

Podesta says Russia's "interference" in the election and apparent attempt to influence it on behalf of Republican Donald Trump should be of "utmost importance" to all Americans.

Podesta would not confirm the authenticity of his leaked emailed. He noted that the Russians have doctored documents in past hacking incidents.

Russia's ambassador to the United States on Tuesday denied his country tried to influence the election, including by hacking the emails of Clinton administration officials.

___

8:20 p.m.

Hillary Clinton's top campaign adviser says it's a "reasonable conclusion" that Donald Trump's campaign had advance warning that Wikileaks planned to hack his emails and Democratic groups.

John Podesta says Russia's actions may be driven by Trump's policy positions, which he said are more in line with Russian foreign policy than U.S. foreign policy. But he also suggested the driving force could be "Mr. Trump's deep engagement and ties with Russian interests in his business affairs."

Podesta spoke with reporters traveling with Clinton Tuesday.

___

8:00 p.m.

Read More