http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3746280/Ivanka-sits-Donald-Trump-s-national-security-meeting.html
20
2
He posted a picture on Instagram, saying meeting was 'informative'

Donald Trump's daughter Ivanka sat in on a national security meeting hosted by the Republican nominee on Wednesday.

The billionaire businessman gathered several advisers, including former New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani, for a roundtable at Trump Tower in New York.

Trump, 70, later posted a picture on Instagram which showed his eldest daughter was present, adding that the meeting had been 'informative.'

'I assure you – with a Trump Administration, we will make the #safety & security of our nation a top priority,' he captioned the image. 'We will MAKE #AMERICA SAFE AGAIN!'

Scroll down for video

Donald Trump's daughter Ivanka was pictured sitting in on a national security meeting hosted by the Republican nominee on Wednesday

At the meeting, the advisers encouraged the GOP nominee to press for more surveillance and more information-sharing with local police departments to fight terror threats if he's elected president.

The FBI does share with local police agencies through Joint Terrorism Task Forces.

Hours after the discussion, Trump received his first classified intelligence briefing, meeting with national security officials for more than two hours.

The real estate mogul became entitled to the briefings once he officially became the Republican nominee for president.

The briefing was delivered by career staffers from the Office of the Director of National Intelligence and was expected to cover major threats and emerging concerns around the world.

Trump's eldest daughter Ivanka (pictured left, with Trump, and right, with husband Jared Kushner) has been at her father's side during the pivotal moments of his campaign

Trump (center) gathered several advisers for a roundtable discussion on national security in his offices in Trump Tower in New York on Wednesday. Pictured left, Ret. Army Gen. Mike Flynn and right, Ret. Army Lt. Gen. Keith Kellogg

The Wednesday afternoon briefing was held at an FBI field office at a federal building in New York City, a facility which has the secure rooms required for such sensitive briefings.

Trump did not speak to reporters upon entering or exiting the building and a campaign spokeswoman did not immediately respond to a request for comment about the briefing.

But in an interview that aired just hours before the briefing, Trump suggested he would be skeptical of its contents when he was asked if he trusted the nation's intelligence materials.

'Not so much from the people that have been doing it for our country,' Trump told Fox News. 'I mean, look what's happened over the last 10 years...it's been catastrophic.'

At the meeting, the advisers encouraged the GOP nominee to press for more surveillance and more information-sharing with local police departments to fight terror threats

Former New York City mayor Rudy Guiliani was at the roundtable at Trump Tower

Trump brought along some top advisers, including New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie and Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn, to the briefing.

A U.S. intelligence official said that generally, advisers who attend the briefings must have appropriate security clearances.

The official spoke on condition of anonymity because he wasn't authorized to disclose information about the candidates' intelligence briefings.

Defense Intelligence Agency says that the agency maintains security clearances for all its former directors, including Flynn, who served in the post from 2012 to 2014.

The briefing came two days after Trump delivered a speech on national security.

It wasn't clear whether trump's opponent for the presidency, Democrat Hillary Clinton, has received an intelligence briefing.

Hours after the roundtable, Trump received his first classified intelligence briefing. above, he is pictured arriving in the parking garage of a federal building in New York for the briefing