http://en.farsnews.com/newstext.aspx?nn=13950624001235
100
10
World

Cavusoglu Slams US Embassy Statement over PKK-Tied Mayors

TEHRAN (FNA)- Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu slammed the recent statement by the US Embassy in Ankara about the removal of 24 PKK-tied mayors, saying no foreign ambassador can act like a governor in Turkey.

The US Embassy on Sept. 11 called on for early elections in East and Southeast Turkey, voicing concern about a government decision to replace 24 PKK-tied mayors with administrators, Daily Sabah reported.

Last week, some mayors charged with various crimes, including membership of a terrorist group, aiding and abetting a terrorist group and terror financing, were replaced by state administrators through a governmental decree.

"Some statements, especially coming from our allies, make us sad at a time when we are fighting against terrorism" Cavusoglu said in his hometown Antalya, criticizing the US attempt to meddle in Turkey's internal affairs.

"No elected official can be untouchable if they are aiding terrorists," he added.

"We voice our concerns about issues in many countries, for example the rising racism in the US. The police have killed countless people in the US, but I don't call my ambassador in Washington and tell him to make a statement. We voice our concerns directly to our American counterparts, this is just politeness," he added.

The foreign minister also complained that "the Americans feel entitled to say anything."

"None of you are the bosses of Turkey … If you want to have a strong relationship with Turkey, you will consider Turkey as an equal partner," Cavusoglu said. "It is not a second-class country."

"Your ambassadors are not governors in Turkey. They should do their jobs properly within the framework of the Vienna Conventions," he added.

Cavusoglu also reiterated Ankara's official arrest request for opposition leader Fethullah Gulen, who is accused of leading the July 15 failed coup attempt.

"Gulen should be extradited to face trial. All those who fled abroad who are linked to the failed coup will have to account for it eventually" he stated.