http://www.news.com.au/finance/real-estate/adelaide-sa/secret-cellars-hidden-garages-and-doors-disguised-as-bookshelves-revealed-as-features-in-adelaide-homes/news-story/4bccf08e153c7548b4e59335417f8123
20
2
Laura Cook, Real Estate Reporter The Advertiser

SECRET cellars, car bunkers and doors disguised as bookshelves seem like they belong in a World War II spy novel – but they’re actually features you can find in homes around Adelaide.

In Black Forest, a unit on Byron Rd harbours an interesting secret: what seems to be a tea crate is actually a door to a cellar.

Vendor Anthony Browne says it’s an impressive feature for a unit.

“It wows everyone I show, because the box that leads down there just looks like a table or something,” he said.

His unit, one of three in a divided 1900-built villa, is positioned over the cellar.

For Mr Browne, an electrician, the storage is vital, and he said he uses it as a shed.

McCammon Real Estate agent Shannon Smoker said the unusual unit would appeal to those seeking something different.

Other homes with secret features are scattered around Adelaide.

Listed for sale last year was 33 Cygnet Court, Glenelg, known as “Solstice”.

Refined Real Estate agent Victor Velgush said there’s more to the home than meets the eye, including an underground James Bond-style garage that causes quite a stir among the neighbourhood.

“It looks like a normal double garage at the front, but the neighbours kept seeing all these cars coming out of it,” he said. “Unless you’re there at the time it’s operating, you would never imagine there’s cars kept underneath. Push a button and the whole driveway lifts up.”

The two-storey storage is able to hold six vehicles.

Inside the house, a plain wall, when pressed in certain places, opens up to concealed rooms including a wine cellar.

“It looks like a sheer wall, but if you know where to lean, you actually have doors,” Mr Velgush said.

John Williams of Harcourts Williams, who has sold homes with secret features, says that when they are revealed at open inspetions, they create plenty of excitement.

“We’ve sold a couple of houses that had fairly elaborate trap doors to cellars that come up on hydraulic lifts,” he said.

“You can’t really see the trap door when you’re looking at the floor.

“We tend to keep them as a surprise. Once people see them they get excited. All want to go down there at once, so we need to keep it controlled.”

Another home he sold had a bookshelf concealing a door to another room, particularly popular with kids.

“A keen eye could see the hinges, but most people wouldn’t,” he said.

“When kids find a door that leads to a secret bedroom, they find that very exciting.

“It’s like a Harry Potter-style secret room – they can hide up there.”