http://mumbaimirror.indiatimes.com/news/india/ISIS-kidnaps-4-Indians-in-Libya-releases-two/articleshow/48300717.cms
26
2
The University of Sirte lecturers were detained while on their way back to India.



Four Indian teachers who were returning to India from Tripoli and Tunis were kidnapped in Libya on Wednesday, allegedly by terror outfit Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS). On Friday, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said two have been released.



While Tiruveedhula Gopikrishna and Balaram hailed from Srikakulam and Hyderabad in Andhra Pradesh respectively, Lakshmikanth and Vijayakumar were from Raichur and Bangalore in Karnataka.



MEA spokesperson Vikas Swarup said Lakshmikanth and Vijayakumar have been brought back safely to the University of Sirte and efforts were on for securing the release of the other two lecturers. However, it was not immediately known how they were freed.



"I am happy we have been able to secure the release of Lakshmikanth and Vijayakumar trying for other two," External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj said. Balaram too managed to send a brief message to his wife Sridevi, saying he is safe.



"PM, Sushma Swaraj had got involved and put their efforts in getting back our son, we are very thankful to them. We are very happy," Lakshmikant's uncle Anand Rao said.



"We are very happy that our son is released and he is safe. Our thanks to everyone who made efforts to bring back our son, we are grateful to them," Vijayakumar's father Srinivasalu said.



Swarup said the four Indians were detained at a check point about 50 km from Sirte. The area is under ISIS control. "Three of them were faculty members at the University of Sirte and one was working at the Sirte University's branch in Jufra," he added.



Gopikrishna's wife Kalyani said her husband had called on Wednesday and said that he is coming home via Tunis. The teacher was in Libya since 2008, where he worked as an assistant professor at Sirte University.



He also told her not to worry as his mobile phone will be switched off during the twoand-half-hour journey from the university to Tripoli. "We don't have any information. Ware not able to talk to anybody in Libya due to language constraints. I want my husband back home safe," Kalyani told Mirror.



AP minister for NRI affairs P Raghunadha Reddy said the state government is in touch with the MEA and the Indian embassy in Libya to secure their release. Srikakulam MP K Ramamohan Naidu assured the family of getting Gopikrishna released.



The Indian government had in July last year issued an advisory asking its citizens to leave conflict-hit Libya. With Agencies