http://www.news.com.au/national/politics/attorneygeneral-george-brandis-faces-claim-he-misled-parliament-over-talks-with-solicitorgeneral/news-story/5d36fee12c9f9b4aa83c4f99f8cdbf78
111
11
Video

Image Brandis denies misleading parliament 1:19 Attorney-General George Brandis has rejected claims he misled parliament amid a high-level legal dispute.

IT’S not unusual for two lawyers to have “different interpretations” but this clash over a meeting last November has led to Attorney-General George Brandis being called a liar.

The charge is from his Labor opponent Mark Dreyfus and will result in Mr Brandis being accused next week of having misled Parliament, a serious offence.

At the centre of the controversy is a move by Mr Brandis to ensure the Solicitor-General Justin Gleeson did not provide legal advice without his written authority, which is an existing element of the Law Officers Act.

Mr Brandis has told the Senate he consulted his chief law officer on the matter during a one hour meeting in his Canberra office on November 30 last year. Today he said two note-takers at the meeting had evidence of this.

“I have not misled the Parliament,” Mr Brandis told ABC Radio today.

“The issue here is whether I consulted the Solicitor-General before a legislative instrument was made by me. There were consultations.”

But Mr Gleeson said in a submission to a Senate committee Thursday: “Nothing of that kind was discussed at that meeting.”

Shadow attorney-general Mark Dreyfus today ramped up his attacks.

“George Brandis has made up his own mind, never having raised this important change with the Solicitor-General,” Mr Dreyfus said.

“He has behaved disgracefully and regrettably.”

He told ABC TV last night: “Senator Brandis has misled, directly misled the Australian people, lied to the Parliament by saying that he consulted with the Solicitor-General.”

The Attorney-General told Sky News today that “essentially a lazy practice had developed across government, perhaps born of ignorance of the requirements of Section 12B of the Law Officers Act”.

He put his disagreement with Mr Gleeson down to “different interpretations” of the November talks and said his department had confirmed he had fulfilled his obligations.

It was a “pure formality” to regularise the practice, “and ensure all areas of government knew the requirements of the act”.

It was not, said Mr Brandis, an attempt to prevent politically sensitive approaches being made to Mr Gleeson.

He said: “Since the instrument (the requirement) has been in operation since early May there have been 10 occasions when a minister or a department or an agency has written to me saying, ‘We think this is important enough to go to the Solicitor-General. We seek your consent’.

“Every time, without a second thought, I have signed the consent.”