http://dailypost.ng/2016/08/27/nigerian-newspapers-10-things-need-know-saturday-morning-37-2/
111
11
Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian newspapers :

1. Report says some parents of the abducted Chibok girls have shunned the BBOG group and are personally reaching out to President Muhammadu Buhari on how to meet with him. According to the report, the parents do not want to have anything to do with the BBOG campaigners. The report claimed a presidency source had disclosed that while the campaigners had been parading only two parents of the girls, the women leader of the Chibok parents, Yana Galang, was willing to meet with the President.

2. Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta, MEND, Friday, accepted former Federal Commissioner for Information, Chief Edwin Clark, as leader of ‎Niger Delta militants’ delegation that will engage the Federal Government in a dialogue.

MEND also disclosed that it was ready to disband its Aaron Team 2, ‎headed by Odein Ajumogobia and work with Chief Clark.

3. A 28-year-old man, Ikechukwu Daniel, a member of a notorious kidnapping gang terrorizing the South Western part of the country, who was arrested by operatives of the Inspector- General of Police Special Intelligence Response Team, IRT, for allegedly masterminding the April 27, 2016, abduction of Senator Iyabo Anisulowo in Ogun State, has also confessed to planning the kidnap of oil magnet, Otedola which he said he would have carried out in November this year.

4. The Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, has alleged that its splinter group, the Re-branded Indigenous People of Biafra, TRIPOB, was a creation of the Federal Government, with the aim of deceiving the masses that there is problem within the ranks of IPOB and to frustrate the struggle for the independence of Biafra. IPOB, maintained that the battle for Biafra will continue despite what is being formulated.

5. Naira has continued on a decline status as it depreciated to N415/ USD1 on Friday in the parallel market, bringing the total weekly loss to N20 per dollar. However, the inter-bank market registered moderate stability as mid-day trading rate hovered at N315/ USD1 after depreciating to N316.

6. President Muhammadu Buhari, on Friday, travelled to Kenya to attend a two-day summit of the sixth Tokyo International Conference on African Development, TICAD VI. The summit is being organised by the Government of Japan, United Nations Office of the Special Adviser on Africa, United Nations Development Programme, African Union and the World Bank.

7. The Movement for the Actualization of the Sovereign State of Biafra, MASSOB, yesterday, described the governors of the Southeastern states as weak and incapable of performing the primary function of governance, having failed to tackle the incessant attacks on communities by Fulani herdsmen.

8. A leading governorship aspirant of the All Progressive Congress, APC, in Ondo state, Chief Rotimi Akeredolu yesterday condemned the action of the national leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu of endorsing an aspirant ahead of the Primaries. He said by such action, Tinubu has lost his place as a national leader of the party.

9. Report has claimed that the senator representing Anambra North Senatorial District in the upper chamber of the National Assembly, Stella Oduah, Friday lost her son. Report says the deceased died at a private hospital in Abuja in the early hours of Friday. The family is yet to confirm the report.

10. Governor Adams Oshiomhole of Edo State says the state is the most secured in the South-South region. Speaking on Friday during a courtesy visit to him by the Commandant, Nigerian Army School of Supply and Transport, Benin City, Brig-General Nnamdi Anene, Oshiomhole said the Army Barracks is regarded as part of the Edo Community by the State government.