http://www.nationmultimedia.com/national/Security-drones-in-South-mulled-30294608.html
111
11
Prawit, who is also defence minister, said the government had special equipment such as unmanned aerial vehicles and all armed forces were ready for operations in the insurgency-wracked area.

Prawit has instructed the Army and railway police to tighten security measures for train services connecting Hat Yai in Songkhla to the southernmost provinces of Pattani, Yala and Narathiwat.

The move followed Saturday’s train-track bomb blast at Pattani’s Khok Pho district.

The explosion derailed a train heading from Sungai Kolok in Narathiwat to Hat Yai, killing one railway official and injuring three others.

The attack resulted in the State Railway of Thailand (SRT) suspending train services to the three southernmost provinces.

Prawit said the Army, police and SRT would cooperate more to better secure train services between Hat Yai and the deep South.

He also said Army chief General Teerachai Nakwanich, who is also deputy director of the Internal Security Operations Command, would coordinate with related agencies to better guard services.

‘Only partial withdrawal’

He added that the Pattani bomb might have been planted a long time ago.

Prawit said the withdrawal of troops in the deep South would only be partial and the Army chief would ensure there were sufficient troops on the ground in every area, especially paramilitary rangers who had been recruited in great numbers.

He added that a plan to set up a command cabinet to tackle the unrest in the deep South was still under consideration.

The atmosphere at Hat Yai Train Station was relatively quiet yesterday with about 50 per cent fewer travellers as train services to the deep South remained suspended. Passengers who had made advance bookings were sent to their destinations in buses and vans.

The line hit by the bomb blast is expected to be reopened in 10 days with normal services expected to be resumed in time for Hari Raya on Monday, said Hat Yai railway inspector Saman Raksawong.

The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) yesterday condemned the attack, saying the train was a public space that should be safe.

The NHRC urged authorities to punish wrongdoers swiftly and provide aid to those affected by the blast.

It also expressed its condolences to the deceased worker’s family and families of those injured, labelling the attack a breach of international humanitarian principles and an act that aimed to create fear among the public and harm peace efforts.

The NHRC urged state officials and local residents to watch out for possible violence.