http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3792043/Finally-end-BBC-s-golden-goodbyes-Executives-no-longer-able-walk-away-six-figure-pay-offs-new-rules.html
111
11
BBC executives will no longer be able to walk away with six-figure ‘golden goodbyes’ under a new blitz on fat cat pay-offs.

The Corporation has agreed that nobody who is sacked or quits would be able to pocket no more than £95,000 – finally bringing it in line with the rest of the public sector.

The so-called golden-goodbyes have been under attack since George Entwistle, the former BBC director-general, received a bumper £450,000 pay-off in 2012 after just 54 days in the job.

Golden-goodbyes have been under attack since George Entwistle, the former BBC director-general, received a bumper £450,000 pay-off in 2012 after just 54 days in the job

The crackdown emerged on the day when the new Culture Secretary, Karen Bradley, published plans for the latest BBC Royal Charter. It includes:

Forcing the BBC to name the more than 100 stars who earn more than £150,000-a-year

Putting the National Audit Office in charge of scrutinising the BBC’s accounts

A contest to become the chairman of the new BBC Board

Some of the measures triggered howls of protest from the BBC – in particular the requirement to name stars earning £150,000 a year.

Under David Cameron’s Government, the bar had been set at £450,000.

The Corporation will also be made to throw open its books to the NAO, the spending watchdog which scrutinises the Government’s accounts.

For years the corporation’s finances have been dealt with by the BBC Trust and a commercial auditor, most recently Ernst and Young.

But the NAO – which has a reputation for being fiercely critical of Whitehall waste - will now have root and branch oversight on spending, including the BBC’ s long exempt commercial arm.

The move to include the BBC Worldwide department - which is responsible for CBeebies and BBC America, as well as selling programmes such as Strictly Come Dancing abroad – is understood to have been fiercely resisted by BBC executives.

The new plans were published after it emerged this week that the BBC had lost the Great British Bake Off to Channel 4

But ministers ruled that no BBC activity should be hidden from public view.

Mrs Bradley also confirmed the chairman of the new BBC Board - which takes over from the trust from next April - would be chosen by open competition.

Previously, Mr Cameron had handed the job to the current chairman of the Trust, Rona Fairhead, in a behind-closed-doors deal.

Earlier this week, Theresa May ripped up the deal and told Ms Fairhead she would have to reapply for her own job. She quit in protest.

In a sign of the tensions between the BBC and the Government, Ms Fairhead yesterday condemned the shake-up, saying that it was not in the ‘long-term interests of licence fee payers.’

Earlier this week, Theresa May told Rona Fairhead (pictured) she would have to reapply for her own job. She quit in protest

But Mrs Bradley said that, by driving down costs, the BBC would have more money to spend on programmes such as Great British Bake off – which it this week lost to Channel 4 in a bidding war.

She said: ‘Licence fee payers have a right to know where their money goes. By making the BBC more transparent it will help deliver savings that can then be invested in even more great programmes.’

MPs from other parties also told the BBC’s managers to stop moaning.

The SNP’s John Nicolson said: ‘The danger for the BBC is that it will be forced to reveal the salaries of many of its more mediocre but overpaid employees, and that there may be some national teeth-gnashing as a result, when people discover exactly what goes on behind closed doors.’

The BBC agreed to lower the cap on controversial ‘golden goodbyes’ handed to senior executives, which last year cost the corporation £10m.

The payments offered managers in redundancy packages at both the BBC and Channel 4 are currently capped at £150,000 a year.

Mrs Bradley said the new BBC board would be made up of 14 members - nine of which would be appointed by the BBC, plus five which would be public appointments. Originally, the Government had wanted to make more appointments, including a vice chairman, but backed down amid complaints from the BBC about its editorial independence.

Ex-chancellor George Osborne legislated to cap public sector pay-offs, including those given to NHS staff and Town hall bosses, immediately after the 2015 General Election. It was part of the Tory Party manifesto.

According to the Treasury, 1,838 public sector employees received payouts worth more than £100,000 in 2013 – which Mr Osborne said was unacceptable. The changes became law in May of this year – but the BBC had an exemption