http://tribune.com.pk/story/1207381/7-worth-waiting-features-samsung-galaxy-s8/
20
2
Rumour­s sugges­t Samsun­g will reveal the Galaxy S8 in Februa­ry next year

Rumours suggest Samsung might release a new flagship smartphone as early as February next year as the company tries to recover lost ground after the Note 7 fiasco.

The tech giant issued a global recall and suspended production of its Note 7 smartphones after news of the device catching fire attributed to faulty lithium-ion batteries.

Samsung is rumoured to release the Galaxy S8 on February 26, 2017, one day before Mobile World Congress begins. The device is expected to have several minor changes; however, some of the features might prove as game changers for the ill-fated smartphone manufacturer.

Here’s a list of 7 features the Galaxy S8 is rumoured to pack which might make it worth waiting for:

1. Full edge to edge display without a physical home button

Reports suggest Samsung might remove the physical home button in favour of a digital one featured on most Android devices. The new device might also feature an edge to edge display, allowing for a larger display without the need to increase the phone size.

Samsung faces potential class action in US over Note 7

Apple, Samsung’s biggest rival in the smartphone business, might also remove the physical home button from its smartphones next year. The move will then give Samsung a much needed edge over its competitor.

2. 4K display

4K is the future and it would only make sense if Samsung upgrades it new smartphone’s display to the higher resolution from its current Quad hd panels. “Not only will this allow Samsung to market the smartphone as having one of the sharpest screens of any mobile device, it also makes the S8 into a suitable platform for the next generation of mobile VR,” says Forbes contributor Ewan Spence.

The 4K display might make the Galaxy S8 the most suitable device for virtual reality headsets.

3. Dual lens camera

Samsung suppliers are reportedly filling orders for dual-lens cameras capable of taking DSLR-like pictures. A better camera with dual lens should not come as a surprise as Apple’s iPhone 7 Plus also packs dual sensors.

4. Exynos 8895 and Qualcomm Snapdragon 830 chips

Samsung flagship devices pack the latest in terms of hardware and the Galaxy S8 may feature the fastest processors available. Chip manufacturer Qualcomm revealed details about its latest Snapdragon chipset at a summit in Hong Kong this week. The new chip is expected to support download speeds of up to 1Gbps. Whereas the Exynos 8895 is reported to have a 3GHz maximum speed and a 70% improvement in image processing efficiency compared to its predecessor.

Samsung Elec to compensate Galaxy Note 7 parts suppliers

5. USB-C audio to replace the headphone jack

Following Apple, Samsung is also rumoured to abandon the headphone jack and use the USB-C port for audio instead. The tech giant released a pair of wireless headphones dubbed the IconX earlier this year but we can expect a headphone jack adapter with the new phone.

6. Two sizes, both with curved displays

Samsung releases two variants of its Galaxy S lineup – flat screen version and an “Edge” version that features a bigger curved display. However, rumours suggest we should expect both versions to have a curved display with the major difference being the display size for the two phones.

7. ARM Mali-G71 graphics chip

Samsung Galaxy S8 might pack a powerful Mali G71 graphics chip. “The Mali-G71 GPU is scalable from one to thirty two cores and delivers up to 20% better energy efficiency, 40% better performance density and 20% external memory bandwidth saving compared to Mali-T880 under similar conditions,” says ARM in the description of the Mali-G71 website.

The article originally appeared on Forbes

Have something to add. Please share in the comments below.

Read full story