http://thenationonlineng.net/imo-first-lady-decries-high-rate-female-genital-mutilation/
111
11
The wife of Imo State governor, Nneoma Okorocha, yesterday decried the high rate of Female Genital Mutilation/ Cutting in the state, which, according to her, is the highest in the country with 68 percent.

She disclosed that as part of her vision to promote and empower women and children, especially the needy and the vulnerable, the Women of Divine Destiny Initiative (WODDI), her pet project, will be partnering with the United Nations Population Fund Agency (UNFPA) to tackle the trend.

Mrs Okorocha, who disclosed this while addressing newsmen in her office, noted that the ugly trend is rampant in Ikeduru,Oguta, Ngor Okpala and Ohaji/Egbema Council Areas of the State.

She hinted further that part of the measures she has adopted to eliminate the menace in the state is to criminalize the practice through a bill that she will present to the state House of Assembly.

According to her, “Female Genital Mutilation is a form of violence against women which is perpetuated by unfounded myth and baseless traditions. It is a practice that is very rampant in our region, and unfortunately Imo State was found to have one of the prevalence rate of 68 percent.

“In Imo State, intervention by UNFPA through the Ministry of Health, Women Affairs and Social Development has focused on four local government areas of Ikeduru, Ohaji /Egbema, Ngor-Okpala and Oguta.

“In spite of this intervention, it is noted that this practice is undertaken in our communities throughout the state and has been continuing unabated, parents especially mothers have been secretly indulging in the act, leaving the victims in perpetual agony and regrets.

“This can no longer be allowed to go on. It has therefore become imperative to end this harmful traditional practice.”

The state Attorney General, Barrister Miletus Nlemedum, while commending the governor’s wife for the initiative, assured that the judiciary will take the matter seriously.

He promised to assist and make the war against FGM a success in the state.

Similarly, the State Chairman of the Council of Traditional Rulers, Eze Sam Ohiri, represented at the occasion by Eze G.N Ejiogu, assured of the support of traditional institution in eradicating the practice in the state.