http://www.thedailystar.net/backpage/son-murders-mother-tries-kill-himself-1285621
114
11
A college student reportedly killed his ailing mother by slitting her throat before making an attempt on his own life in Gosaildanga area of the city yesterday.

The victim, Kumkum Chowdhury, 42, was wife of Sukhamoy Chowdhury from Satkania upazila in Chittagong district.

During primary interrogation the suspected assailant, Sumit Chowdhury, 20, admitted to have killed his mother with a sharp kitchen instrument (boti) that was seized by police, said AKM Mohiuddin Selim, officer-in-charge (OC) of Bandar Police Station.

Sumit is currently undergoing treatment for self-inflicted neck injuries in police custody at Chittagong Medical College Hospital (CMCH), he said.

The incident took place in between 12:30pm and 1:00pm yesterday when the elder brother, Somnath Chowdhury, was away from home, OC Selim said, adding that Sumit opened the door with blood all over his body when Somnath returned home and found his mother, a paralysis patient, in a pool of blood in her bed.

Sumit was a well-behaved boy who had been the caregiver of his mother since she became bedridden after suffering brain strokes. He appeared in HSC examinations from Barrister Sultan Ahmed Degree College this year and did not get pass marks in three subjects. He appealed for a re-evaluation of his results and the revised results were published yesterday, said his family sources.

Sumit might have been suffering from clinical depression caused by the stress over poor results in his studies due to taking care of his bedridden mother along with other family issues, observed Zahidul Islam, assistant commissioner (AC), Chittagong Metropolitan Police, Bandar Zone.

Sumit might have snapped after the revised results were published yesterday and his elder brother scolded him for failing to secure pass marks in two subjects again, Zahid hypothesised.

His father, Sukhamoy Chowdhury, an income tax lawyer residing in Dhaka, said, “My son called me over phone yesterday at 10:21am, saying that baba (father) I failed in the re-evaluation too. I consoled him and advised him to prepare better for the next time.”

“My younger son [Sumit] used to take care of his ailing mother,” Sukhamoy said. “But I am shocked to hear such incident and I can't understand how anything like this could happen.”

Two cases -- one for murder and the other for attempted suicide -- have been filed in this connection, AC Zahidul Islam said.