http://nation.com.pk/national/03-Sep-2016/cpec-a-fate-changer-nawaz
111
11
ISLAMABAD - Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif yesterday reiterated that the China Pakistan Economic Corridor would not only serve as a ‘game-changer’ for Pakistan, but a ‘fate-changer’ for entire region.



Talking to Chairman SEP/SPIC Chinese Group Wand Yundan in Islamabad, he said the CPEC would help rid the region of economic deprivation and attain peace and prosperity.



The Prime Minister said CPEC was a new concept of diplomacy based on shared goals of prosperity for Pakistan and the region, and a project to eliminate poverty, unemployment and underdevelopment.



He highlighted the relationship between the two countries as all weather deep rooted friendship and said the two countries have always supported each other with a spirit based on trust and honesty.



Nawaz Sharif said the relation between the countries has become strategic with the culmination of CPEC that is not merely a strategic agreement between Pakistan and China, but also successful completion of their 65 years of friendship.



He said by working together, “We can bring peace and stability in the region through economic development of our people.

”

The chairman highly appreciated the economic and financial policies of the government that have contributed towards the economic turnaround of the country.



He said that the resolve and commitment of the government to make CPEC a success is highly commendable.



Meanwhile, Prime Minister Sharif strongly condemned the terrorist attack on district court in Mardan and said that terrorists shall not get space to hide in Pakistan.



In his message, the Prime Minister said these receding elements are showing frustration by attacking soft targets.

He said these cowardly attacks cannot shake our unflinching resolve in war against terrorism.



The Prime Minister expressed sympathies with the bereaved families and prayed for eternal peace for the departed souls and grant of courage to bear this irreparable loss with fortitude.



Earlier, Nawaz Sharif lauded the security forces for successfully foiling the terrorist attack in Peshawar’s Chritstian Colony.



Four suicide bombers were killed by the security forces during exchange of fire near Warsak Road yesterday.



In a statement, the Prime Minister said that enhanced ability and capacity of our security agencies including army, FC and police to promptly neutralize the terrorist attacks is highly appreciated.



He appreciated the efforts of the security officials for successfully neutralizing the terrorists without any loss of life and property of the people.



Also yesterday, Pakistan People’s Party chief Bilawal Bhutto Zardari strongly condemned the terrorist attacks on a Mardan court and Christian Colony in Peshawar resulting in martyrdom of innocent people and injuries to law enforcing agencies.



In a statement, Bilawal said terrorists were targeting innocent people to scare the entire nation but pledged that country and the people are united against the cancer of extremism.

He expressed sympathies with those who lost their near and dear ones and asked the authorities for best possible medical treatment to those wounded in attacks.



He also saluted the security personnel who foiled the terror attack on Christian Colony, Peshawar and killed the armed terrorists on spot.

