http://www.philstar.com:8080/headlines/2016/09/04/1620329/leni-senators-condemn-davao-bombing
112
11
MANILA, Philippines - Vice President Leni Robredo and senators urged Filipinos yesterday to unite against terrorism as they condemned the bombing in Davao City on Friday night, calling it a senseless and criminal act.

The Makati Business Club also slammed the attack amid President Duterte’s all-out war against the terrorist group Abu Sayyaf and illegal drugs.

“Our thoughts and prayers are with the families of those who lost their lives or were injured in last night’s attack in Davao,” Robredo said.

“In this difficult time, we must not allow violence and fear to divide our nation. Rather, let us all come together in fighting against the scourge of terrorism,” she added.

Robredo called on people to keep calm while working collectively to bring about justice, peace and order in the country.

Officials said 15 people were killed while 71 others were injured in the night market explosion, prompting Duterte to declare a state of lawlessness or lawless violence to thwart other possible attacks.

Headlines ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1

Sen. Panfilo Lacson, a former police chief, saw the bombing as a clear “sarcastic challenge to the President,” considering that it was done right on his doorstep in Davao City.

Lacson, chairman of the Senate committee on public order and dangerous drugs, said it was also possible that the perpetrators were being “severely damaged or hurt by the ongoing no nonsense offensive operations by the government” against the Abu Sayyaf, which earlier issued a threat to launch counter attacks, and powerful drug syndicates.

The Abu Sayyaf has claimed responsibility for the attack.

“A third possible motive which I think should not be discounted by our investigators is destabilization,” he added.

Senate President Aquilino Pimentel III, Sens. Gregorio Honasan, chairman of the Senate committee on national defense and security, Alan Peter Cayetano and Nancy Binay said there must be unity and cooperation among all sectors to win against terrorists and criminals.

Pimentel said “my prayers are with the victims of the terrorist attack and their families” and that “the police should be supported in solving this crime so that they can bring the perpetrators to justice.”

“There is no excuse for hurting and killing civilians who were simply enjoying a night out with friends and family…All of us should help and find ways to improve our security measures in order to forestall a similar event in the future,” Pimentel added.

Honasan said this was the price of law and order, security and freedom.

“Let us all pray for our safety and everyone should rally under our flag and behind our national and local leaders,” Honasan said.

Sens. Juan Miguel Zubiri, Risa Hontiveros, Francis Pangilinan, Paolo Benigno Aquino IV and Joel Villanueva called for the immediate arrest and prosecution of the perpetrators.

Zubiri urged the people to lead normal lives and avoid spreading unverified information, especially in social media, that would slow down pursuit of the criminals and even endanger witnesses. – With Mike Frialde