http://www.thenational.scot/news/purge-victim-ewan-gibbs-back-in-the-fold-after-labour-blames-administrative-error.21930
111
11
Purge victim Ewan Gibbs back in the fold after Labour blames ‘administrative error’

If you would prefer unlimited access, please support our journalism with a website subscription. Subscribe today for just £3.99 a month.

Will fin breid, barley-bree an paintit room. Whan MacLean meets wi's friens in Springburn. Aa thae roses an geeans will turn tae blume. An a black laud frae yont Nyanga. Dings the fell gallows o the burghers doun.

Black an white ane-til-ither mairriet. Mak the vile barracks o thair maisters bare. Sae come aa ye at hame wi freedom. Never heed whit the houdies croak for Doom. In yer hous aa the bairns o Aidam.

Tak the road an seek ither loanins. Wi thair ill-ploys tae sport an play. Nae mair will our bonnie callants. Merch tae war whan our braggarts crousely craw. Nor wee weans frae pitheid an clachan. Murn the ships sailin doun the Broomielaw. Broken faimilies in launs we've hairriet. Will curse 'Scotlan the Brave' nae mair, nae mair.

Roch the win i the clear day's dawin. Blaws the clouds heilster-gowdie owre the bay. But thair's mair nor a roch win blawin. Thro the Great Glen o the warl the day. It's a thocht that wad gar our rottans. Aa thae rogues that gang gallus fresh an gay.

THE Labour Party has lifted a ban on Scotland’s latest purge victim Ewan Gibbs, claiming an “administrative error” was to blame for him being expelled for a second time.

THE Labour Party has lifted a ban on Scotland’s latest purge victim Ewan Gibbs, claiming an “administrative error” was to blame for him being expelled for a second time.

The embarrassing U-turn comes just days after the 26-year-old Scottish Labour Young Socialists activist told The National of his plans to launch an official appeal against the decision and revealed MSPs, including Neil Findlay, had backed him.

Gibbs, a lecturer in sociology and social policy at the University of the West of Scotland who has recently submitted a PhD at Glasgow University, posted his letter from the Labour Party on Twitter. It states: “It has been brought to our attention with supporting evidence that you have publicly shown support for other parties on Facebook.”

It claimed he had broken the NEC rules and went on to inform him: “You are therefore ineligible to remain a member of the Labour Party.”

Despite being allowed back into the Labour fold and enfranchised, Gibbs still has no idea how or why he was thrown out in the first place.

The lifelong Labour supporter and a party member for the past six years has been promised a ballot paper for the forthcoming leadership election between Jeremy Corbyn and Owen Smith. He said: “I was sent an email saying they made a mistake and there had been a lot of ‘administrative errors’. I am going to find out in more detail exactly what happened. This is the second time it’s happened to me.

“It shows the party apparatus isn’t fit for purpose at the moment and at worst it suggests that perhaps there are individuals within it who aren’t happy with the organisational changes the party has undergone and are unhappy about being part of an expanding mass membership party. That has clearly been articulated politically as well. I have been told I’ll be getting a ballot paper because I have been enfranchised.”

Gibbs said he has “some political differences” with the direction of Scottish Labour and its leader Kezia Dugdale, and supports Corbyn, although he said he believed there was no connection between the party in Scotland and the purge on members.

He also described Dugdale’s public support of Smith as a “strategic error” and said the booing and jeering at the leadership hustings in Glasgow recently when Owen mentioned her name was “obviously concerning”.

Gibbs added: “I have political differences with Kezia and the direction of the party and I am also very concerned about the future of the party in Scotland. If we keep following the direction we are going at the moment, which is quite contrary to the outlook of most of the members, we are in trouble. We need a change of political direction.”

During her speech in Stirling yesterday to SNP parliamentarians, the First Minister hit out at Labour, predicting the demise of the party as a lasting force in Britain.

Nicola Sturgeon said: “Labour is in a state of utter chaos and collapse. It has shown itself completely unable to oppose, let alone govern.

“The leader that their MPs refuse to unite behind is almost certain to be re-elected. Not a single serious commentator thinks they can win a General Election. Not even the leader of the Scottish Labour Party thinks they can win a General Election.

“There is now the very real possibility that we are witnessing the end of Labour as a force to be reckoned with in British politics – perhaps the end of the Labour Party full stop.”

It has also been revealed that an 82-year-old lifelong Labour voter and member was expelled by the party for encouraging democracy. The Compliance Unit expelled her for a retweet calling for Green Party leaders to be included in TV debates because it showed sympathy for the Greens.