http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-3848560/Global-warming-row-NOAA-claims-Earth-s-16-month-record-heat-streak-finally-ended-Nasa-disagrees.html
111
11
of last 12 months to break temperature record

This makes it the 11th

Federal meteorologists say Earth's 16-month streak of record high temperatures is finally over.

The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration says last month's 60.6 degrees (15.9 Celsius) was merely the second hottest September on record for the globe.

However Nasa, which averages global temperature differently, considers last month as record hot.

Scroll down for video

The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration says last month's 60.6 degrees (15.9 Celsius) was merely the second hottest September on record for the globe. However Nasa, which averages global temperature differently, considers last month as record hot.

That's slightly cooler than the September record set last year.

But it was warmer than the 20th century average.

NOAA climate scientist Jessica Blunden says a lack of a record doesn't reflect an end to global warming.

Natural variability means not every month sets records.

But the space agency's list doesn't have the same big hot streak.

It didn't consider June as record hot.

Records go back to 1880.

According to Nasa's calculations, September 2016's temperature was a razor-thin 0.004 degrees Celsius warmer than the previous warmest September in 2014.

The record-warm September means 11 of the past 12 consecutive months dating back to October 2015 have set new monthly high-temperature records.

September 2016's temperature was a razor-thin 0.004 degrees Celsius warmer than the previous warmest September in 2014.

HOW NASA DID IT The monthly analysis by the GISS team is assembled from publicly available data acquired by about 6,300 meteorological stations around the world, ship- and buoy-based instruments measuring sea surface temperature, and Antarctic research stations. The modern global temperature record begins around 1880 because previous observations didn't cover enough of the planet. Monthly analyses are updated when additional data become available, and the results are subject to change.

The new monthly analysis of global temperatures is collated by scientists at NASA's Goddard Institute for Space Studies (GISS) in New York.

The September margin is so narrow those two months are in a statistical tie.

Last month was 0.91 degrees Celsius warmer than the mean September temperature from 1951-1980.

Updates to the input data have meant that June 2016, previously reported to have been the warmest June on record, was in facers, in GISS's updated analysis, the third warmest June behind 2015 and 1998 after receiving additional temperature readings from Antarctica.

The late reports lowered the June 2016 anomaly by 0.05 degrees Celsius to 0.75.

'Monthly rankings are sensitive to updates in the record, and our latest update to mid-winter readings from the South Pole has changed the ranking for June,' said GISS director Gavin Schmidt.

'We continue to stress that while monthly rankings are newsworthy, they are not nearly as important as long-term trends.'

Monthly temperature anomalies with base 1980-2015, superimposed on a 1980-2015 mean seasonal cycle.

Just weeks ago August tied July as the hottest month ever recorded, keeping up an alarming trend that has seen eleven consecutive months of record-breaking temperatures.

Last month was hotter than the previous warmest August, in 2014, by .16°C according to Nasa – and it's passed the mean temperatures from 1951-1980 by nearly a full degree.

The researchers have created a new visualization to show how dramatically the temperatures have climbed since scientists began tracking this data, revealing a long-term warming trend over the past century.

The Nasa Earth Observatory chart created by Joshua Stevens reveals how temperatures have risen since scientists began keeping records in 1880

CLIMATE CHANGE ALREADY CAUSING DEATHS A new study has revealed the dangers of climate change are already affecting humanity and led to the death of hundreds of people across Europe sixteen years ago. A heatwave in 2003 killed 506 people in Paris and 315 in London, experts have said in a new study. A fifth of those deaths can be blamed on man-made pollution. The study led by University of Oxford scientists said there were 315 heat-related deaths in London as Europe experienced its hottest summer on record, out of which 64 were caused by climate change. The study was the first to calculate the number of premature deaths and it's link to air pollution and warned heatwaves will become more common and more severe in the future.

The animated graph reveals the temperature anomalies dating all the way back to 1880, when the global temperature record began.

This past August marks the hottest month in 136 years of observation.

'Monthly rankings, which vary by only a few hundredths of a degree, are inherently fragile,' says Gavin Schmidt, director at the Nasa's Goddard Institute for Space Studies.

'We stress that the long-term trends are the most important for understanding the ongoing changes that are affecting our planet.'

Seasonal temperatures usually reach their highest in July, the researchers explain, but this year, August was so warm that the two months tied, with last month being .98°C warmer than the mean August temperatures from 1951-1980.

The analysis was conducted with data from roughly 6,300 meteorological stations around the world.

August has now tied July as the hottest month ever recorded, keeping up an alarming trend that has seen eleven consecutive months of record-breaking temperatures. The map reveals August temperature anomalies compared to the 1951-1980 mean

According to the researchers, 2016 is set to be a record-breaking year entirely given the January-August trend.

In a tweet, Schmidt says there is more than 99 percent chance that this will be the case.

This comes after it was revealed that July was the hottest month on record, despite the fading of a strong El Nino, which causes global temperatures to rise.

Seasonal temperatures usually reach their highest in July, the researchers explain, but this year, August was so warm that the two months tied, with last month being .98°C warmer than the mean August temperatures from 1951-1980

According to the researchers, 2016 is set to be a record-breaking year entirely given the January-August trend, illustrated in the graph. In a tweet, Schmidt says there is more than 99 percent chance that this will be the case

The month was 1.51°F (0.84°C) warmer than the global average between 1950 and 1980, and they say it was 0.18 degrees warmer than the previous records seen in July 2011 and July 2015.

Nasa declared the first half of 2016 to have been the warmest six months on record, as many parts of the world experienced 'oppressive' levels of heat this summer, according to Nasa's Earth Observatory.

In June and July people living in Siberia, the Middle East and large areas of North America faced extreme heatwaves.

The US's three largest metropolitan areas – New York, Los Angeles and Chicago – all experienced heatwave alerts in July as well.

Nasa has found that the global temperatures were 1.51°F (0.84°C) warmer than its instrumental record in July 2016 (illustrated). It marks another record breaking month in a trend that has seen temperature records tumble in the past year

California is also in the grips of its worst drought in decades.

Parts of Siberia, where the weather is normally relatively cool, saw temperatures more typically found in the tropics.

Hot weather melted the permafrost in the Yamal Peninsula to reveal an infected carcass of a reindeer, triggering a major outbreak of anthrax.

Kuwait recorded a temperature of 129.2°F (54°C) on July 21 in what may be the hottest temperature on record in the Eastern Hemisphere if it is confirmed.