http://www.politico.eu/article/matteo-renzi-hopes-to-avoid-curse-of-barack-obama-brexit-referendum/
111
11
U.S. President Barack Obama talks with Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi | Carlos Barria/AFP via Getty Images Matteo Renzi hopes to avoid curse of Obama Italian prime minister will hope US president’s backing doesn’t backfire ahead of referendum.

The leader of a major European government enjoys a high-profile love-fest with Barack Obama just months before a risky national referendum that will decide his political future.

Sound familiar?

The dynamics of Matteo Renzi’s visit to Washington this week are far different from those surrounding Obama’s now-infamous London intervention on behalf of former U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron and his doomed anti-Brexit campaign in April.

But the parallels are striking — and Renzi’s camp is no doubt hoping that his state dinner at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Tuesday night doesn’t turn out to be his political last supper.

The Italian prime minister’s visit comes less than two months before Italians head to the polls to vote on Renzi’s proposal to amend the Italian constitution and weaken the power of the Italian senate. It’s the kind of reform-minded project that’s made Renzi one of Obama’s favorite leaders in Europe.

But with Italy’s banking sector still weak and unsteady, a defeat in the December 4 referendum could deal another blow to political and economic confidence in the eurozone, and cost the 41-year-old Renzi his job and political career much in the way that Brexit did Cameron in.

There’s another key similarity: Renzi is being advised in the referendum battle by none other than former Obama campaign manager Jim Messina, the political guru who advised Cameron both on his re-election campaign in 2015 and on the unsuccessful Remain campaign. Messina is being paid approximately €400,000 for his services.

Coming off Cameron’s big Brexit loss, the Italian referendum may also be critical for Messina’s reputation in Europe. His role has garnered increasing media attention in Italy, amid reports that he also advised Renzi’s team on its strategy for dealing with the aftermath of the August earthquake, including the appointment of Vasco Errani, a politician close to Renzi’s enemies in his Democratic Party, to oversee reconstruction efforts.

Backlash brewing

Just as Obama’s intervention in London sparked criticism from pro-Brexit forces, there’s clearly a risk that the American connection could backfire for Renzi.

The Italian referendum campaign has already come with its own “back of the queue” moment, of sorts: The U.S. ambassador to Italy, John Phillips, provoked a political backlash in mid-September when he said that if Italian voters reject Renzi’s proposals, “those American companies that are coming to Italy — and Italy ranks right now eighth in investment in EU where it should be third or even second — it will be a big step backward in terms of attracting more foreign investment.”

Stefano Stefanini, a former Italian ambassador to NATO, says that while the parallels between the Brexit saga and Renzi’s referendum fight are “striking,” the prime minister’s visit has more to do with a U.S. understanding that it needs to build relations with Italy, particularly in the post-Brexit world. “There will be a vacuum left by the U.K.’s exit. Italy can help fill it,” he said.

“If [Renzi] plays his cards well, the overall effect will also give him a lift in the referendum,” Stefanini predicted. “But tomorrow, when he crosses the door of Pennsylvania 1600, he must think internationally, not Italian.”

Renzi had said he’ll resign if he loses the referendum, though he seems to have softened that threat somewhat in recent months. It’s a shift that some observers attribute to advice from Messina, who pushed Renzi to make the referendum vote less about himself, given that voters often view referendums as a proxy for their feelings about the incumbent leader.

“I have been very impressed with the energy and the vision and the reforms that he is pursuing to unleash the potential of the Italian people and the Italian economy” — Barack Obama

In recent days, Renzi has been trying to make the White House visit less personal, stressing the importance of the trip to his country and pointing out to Italian media that he’s bringing along two Oscar winners (comedian Roberto Benigni and director Paolo Sorrentino); scientist Fabiola Gianotti; Paola Antonelli of New York’s Museum of Modern Art; Giusi Nicolini, the mayor of Lampedusa, the island off the coast of Sicily most exposed to the arrival of migrants; and paralympic fencing champion Beatrice Vio.

“We go as Italy,” Renzi said.

After a 9 a.m. arrival ceremony for Renzi and his wife, Agnese Landini, on Tuesday, Renzi and Obama will meet privately and then hold a joint press conference, followed Tuesday evening by the state dinner. Obama chose the Italian-American celebrity chef Mario Batali to cook. Gwen Stefani will perform. It will be the first White House state dinner for an Italian prime minister since 2008 when George W Bush hosted Silvio Berlusconi.

Partners in growth

Obama relies heavily on German Chancellor Angela Merkel as his most strategic partner in Europe. But Renzi’s pushback against the German government’s austerity edicts fall nicely in line with the administration’s desire to see Europe focus more on economic growth and less on budget-cutting. Italy has increased cooperation with the United States when it comes to Libya and anti-ISIL efforts and Obama has been supportive of the government’s front-line role in dealing with the migrant crisis.

“Italy is a key member of our counter-ISIL coalition,” White House press secretary Josh Earnest told reporters Monday, specifically citing Italy’s role in training local law enforcement in cities that have been taken back from ISIL to restore order and let people return. Earnest said Italy has an “important role in trying to help their European partners confront the migration crisis,” and he also mentioned the country’s “special relationship” with Libya and efforts in Syria.

And Renzi’s attempt to increase the clout of southern European governments in a European Union still dominated by Germany and France has won him American admirers.

“I think they see Renzi as one leader — if he becomes more [politically] stable — who can really shift Europe towards a more pro-growth economic policy,” said Andrea Montanino, a former Italian Finance Ministry official and IMF executive director who now heads the global business and economic program at the Atlantic Council in Washington.

What’s seen as visionary in Washington is viewed far more warily back in Italy.

Speaking alongside Renzi at the White House in April 2015, Obama called the Italian “young and dynamic” and said: “I have been very impressed with the energy and the vision and the reforms that he is pursuing to unleash the potential of the Italian people and the Italian economy. His willingness to challenge the status quo and to look to the future has made him a leading voice in Europe. And we’re already seeing progress being made with respect to Italy.”

What’s seen as visionary in Washington is viewed far more warily back in Italy. Renzi’s proposal, which he put to a referendum after failing to get it through the parliament, would result in a smaller senate that, proponents say, would reduce inefficiency in the Italian government.

The opposition 5Star movement, however, says it’s simply a power grab that would actually make the legislative process more unruly. “The result of the reform would be chaos,” Luigi Di Maio, the lower house deputy, said Monday.

The resulting uncertainty has many worried about a post-Brexit Italian crisis that could undermine EU stability yet again.

Paolo De Castro, a former minister who now serves as an MEP from Renzi’s Democratic Party, notes that “everybody is very worried about the outcome of the referendum, here in Brussels and beyond. If the ‘no’ side wins it would be a blow for Europe. This doesn’t mean that they are all pro-Renzi but simply that they are all pro-stability.”

The Obama administration has backed Italy in recent financial flare-ups, helping it to avoid a Greek bailout scenario during the G20 talks in Cannes in 2011, for instance.

But American officials court a backlash when they weigh in on the referendum.

When Phillips, the U.S. ambassador, made his comments last month, Renzi opponents complained of U.S. meddling.“Mister U.S. ambassador should mind his own business and not interfere” said the leader of the far-right Northern League, Matteo Salvini — who, incidentally, supports Republican nominee Donald Trump.

Even the president of the Republic, Sergio Mattarella — whose post is largely symbolic — felt the need to intervene, reassuring Italians that “the world is very interconnected, so any event that occurs in an important country — and Italy is an important country — is followed with attention abroad. Naturally, this consideration does not change in any way the fact that sovereignty is based on voters.”

Stefanini, the former Italian ambassador to NATO, says the prime minister should keep his focus on the bigger picture, not the pomp and circumstance — particularly given that Obama will soon have a Democratic successor if the polls are any indicator.

“He’s not there for the referendum, he’s there as a strategic ally of the U.S. ‘Ally’ means NATO, Russia, Syria, Libya,” Stefanini says. “This is where Italy has added value for the U.S., today as well as tomorrow. He’s meeting Barack, but he’s talking to Hillary.”

The risk for Renzi is that Obama’s last state dinner as head of state could also be Renzi’s.

“I hope they will not talk about the referendum in public,” says the Atlantic Council’s Montanino. “ I think it [would] be counter-productive.”

Sarah Wheaton contributed to this story.