http://www.dailynews.com/government-and-politics/20161010/coastal-commission-renews-push-for-lunada-bay-amenities
110
11
The California Coastal Commission has renewed its push for improved public amenities around Lunada Bay in a third letter to the city Palos Verdes Estates.

In a letter dated Oct. 7, commission Enforcement Agent Jordan Sanchez commends the city for its decision to tear down a patio built along the edge of the bay, but reiterates the commission’s past calls for signage and other amenities along the bluffs above Lunada Bay. According to the letter, the city has until Oct. 14 to respond to the most recent message from the Coastal Commission.

Sanchez noted in the letter that the commission gave Palos Verdes Estates the option of issuing a permit for the patio and designating it as available for public use, but wrote that commission staff was “pleased” that the city voted to tear it down.

The city’s move to dismantle the structure doesn’t mean the commission is done looking for improvements around the bay, which has become notorious as the stomping grounds for the Bay Boys, a group of local surfers accused of aggressive and sometimes violent behavior. The group is one focus of a class-action lawsuit filed this year that alleges the Bay Boys is a criminal gang and that the city of Palos Verdes Estates has not done enough to curb its aggressive behavior.

“However, we note that further improving the situation at Lunada Bay by installing coastal access signage and public amenities would both provide an opportunity to resolve the Coastal Act violations at issue comprehensively,” Sanchez wrote in the letter.

Installing the signs and other amenities would resolve the issue of potential penalties the commission could enforce on the city for violating the Coastal Act, and could help the city avoid future problems, he said.

In previous letters, Sanchez listed some of the potential amenities that could be added to the parklands along the cliffs above Lunada Bay, including picnic tables, benches and observation binoculars.

Fixtures like benches or binoculars could help to make the area more welcoming to visitors and act as a reminder that the space is public, discouraging the instances of surfing localism that have become synonymous with Lunada Bay, Sanchez said in the letters.

Palos Verdes Estates City Manager Tony Dahlerbruch, however, called into question the commission’s insistence on new additions to the bucolic community.

“It seems strange that the Coastal Commission is pushing this furniture and fixtures on top of the bluff,” Dahlerbruch said in July. “We haven’t heard of them mandating in any other community.”

Advertisement

A proposal by city staff to install public seating in Lunada Bay was thrashed by residents and eventually shot down by the Parklands Committee in May.

Coastal Commission Information Officer Noaki Schwartz said the agency is waiting on a response from the city before commission staff decides on its next steps.

“Obviously, we would like to see the public feeling safe and welcome going to Lunada Bay sooner rather than later, and the more the city can do towards this end the better,” she said in an email.

In the Oct. 7 letter, Sanchez also expressed the commission’s interest in what effect removing the patio, which he calls a fort, will have on the number of incidents of aggressive or threatening behavior at Lunada Bay.

The structure is the site of an incident at the heart of the class-action suit against the Bay Boys and the city of Palos Verdes Estates. In the lawsuit, a female surfer and photographer accused an alleged Bay Boy of spraying beer on her and exposing himself while he was on the patio. The suit also alleges the city has not done enough to investigate the surfers’ actions, which allegedly have included threatening outsiders and slashing visitors’ tires.

“On that note, we would also like to discuss how the City will continue to manage the situation at Lunada Bay to ensure the public is made to feel invited to enjoy this coastal park,” Sanchez said in the Oct. 7 letter.

Whether the city chooses to ensure public access through increased police patrols in the area or other methods should be a topic of discussion between commission and city staffs, Sanchez said.

In the time between the June 9 letter and the correspondence sent Monday, the City Council voted to tear down the patio built along the Lunada Bay shoreline, despite vocal opposition from many Palos Verdes Estates residents. The patio likely will be torn down by the end of the year.

Dahlerbruch did not immediately return a phone call or email requesting comment.