http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/719995/South-China-Sea-Beijing-developing-small-nuclear-reactors-shipping-containers
112
11
GETTY A nuclear plant is under development in China that would be the world’s smallest

A nuclear plant is under development in China that would be the world's smallest - capable of fitting inside a small steel box. Experts say the technology - dubbed the "portable nuclear battery pack" - could be ready within five years. At just 6.1 metres long and 2.6 metres high, the lead-cooled reactor could generate around 10 megawatts of power, enough to power 50,000 homes.

Well-suited to the maritime environment of the South China Sea, the reactor is capable of desalinating large quantities of seawater to be used in the plant. However, critics warn that hosting a nuclear reactor at sea would make it vulnerable to catastrophic environmental disasters, including leaks into the ocean which would then spread around the world. A tsunami or stormy seas may also pose a risk to the relatively fragile equipment.

Inside view: China's military Tue, September 20, 2016 An inside view of the Chinese military over 120 years. Play slideshow Getty Images 1 of 15 A soldier guarding American planes in China, 1943

Others have warned about the environmental impact to local fish stocks. A marine environment ­researcher at the Ocean University of China told the South China Morning Post: "Many fish and marine creatures will not be able to deal with the dramatic change of environment caused by massive desalination and the rise of sea temperatures caused by a nuclear reactor. "If a nuclear disaster happened in the South China Sea, it would not have an immediate effect on people living on the mainland owing to it being a great distance away. "But the radioactive waste would enter the bodies of fish and other marine creatures and likely end up on our dining tables. "Sea currents could also carry the waste to distant shores."

GETTY Chinese building in the disputed seas

GETTY The lead-cooled reactor could generate around 10 megawatts of power

But Professor Huang Qunying, a nuclear scientist involved in the research, said: "Part of our funding came from the military, but we hope - and it's our ultimate goal - that the technology will eventually benefit civilian users." Tensions continue to grow in the South China Sea, where there are competing claims to islands and the oil-rich waters around them. China claims almost the entire South China Sea, where around £3trillion worth of trade passes every year. Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan and Vietnam also have claims.