http://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-don-t-need-smartphones-but-freedom-from-jungle-raj-mayawati/story-fKXbFI2g0O5IOtK6pjdlSJ.html
114
11
Hitting out at the Uttar Pradesh government’s smartphone scheme, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) president Mayawati accused chief minister Akhilesh Yadav of following the footsteps of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in making “unrealistic promises” to the people.

Mayawati, in a communique issued on Monday, said the people of the state wanted to get rid of the “jungle raj” prevailing in the state, and were not interested in the smartphone being offered by the government.

“The Samajwadi Party government has failed on all fronts. Corruption is rampant in the state. Akhilesh has now launched smartphone scheme to divert the attention of the people,” she alleged.

Stating that the SP government failed to fulfil the promises it made to the people during the 2012 assembly elections, the BSP supremo said: “The CM should be aware that majority of the people in the state already have smartphones. Why will they take smartphone from the government that has failed to protect their life and property? Getting rid of ‘jungle raj’ is the top priority of the people.”

Mayawati said Akhilesh was making “unrealistic promises” keeping an eye on the 2027 assembly elections as Modi had done in the campaigns on the run up to the 2014 Lok Sabha elections.

“Modi made several promises to the people during 2014 Lok Sabha election campaign, but failed to fulfil them. Ahead of 2017 assembly election, Akhilesh is also making unrealistic promises such as distribution of smartphones,” she said.

She also criticised the government for not “taking action” against police and district administration officials whose alleged negligence led to a stampede at her rally at the Kanshi Ram Smarak Maidan on Sunday.

“Instead of announcing Rs 2 lakh ex-gratia for the next of the kin of two BSP workers who died in the stampede, the state government should have ordered action against the officials, whose mismanagement led to the tragedy,” Mayawati said.

“People who lost their kin want justice. The SP government should immediately take stern action against the guilty officials. The government has adopted a new strategy under which it gives financial assistance to the victims’ families and allows the culprits to go scot free. The people are unable to understand the new ‘Samajwadi’ justice,” she said.