http://www.philstar.com/headlines/2016/09/17/1624568/next-war-illegal-gambling
110
11
MANILA, Philippines - Gambling lords, you’re next.

After a vicious campaign against illegal drugs, the government will next declare war on illegal gambling, Philippine National Police (PNP) chief Director General Ronald dela Rosa said yesterday.

“With the President’s call for change in the country, there will yet be no end to wars we are waging. Because after we are done with the war against illegal drugs, in six months, we will shift our sights to eradicating illegal gambling in the country,” Dela Rosa said in his speech at Camp General Simeon Ola in Albay.

“While this is already a part of police operations, we will be giving more life and energy to these operations, the same way we did with our campaign against illegal drugs,” he added.

Dela Rosa also warned police officers to stop accepting money from illegal gambling operators.

“Your hands will be tied,” he said as he recalled his previous conversation with President Duterte about the millions offered to him as payoff by gambling syndicates.

Dela Rosa said Duterte warned him that accepting the money would render him useless as it would tie his hands and prevent him from doing his job.

Headlines ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1

Dela Rosa noted incidents in some regions where police officers who accepted illegal gambling payoffs faced a problem implementing the campaign on illegal drugs as both syndicates use the same network.

“They did not know that those behind the illegal gambling are also behind the illegal drugs,” he added in Filipino.

Speaking to reporters following his speech, Dela Rosa expressed confidence that the campaign against illegal gambling would not be as bloody as the war on drugs and may succeed in less than six months.

“They are not drug-crazed who do not understand. Gambling lords will not fire at you,” he added in Filipino.

The police official expressed hope that they will still get the support of the public once they tackle illegal gambling, although he admitted that many earn their livelihood from such activities.

“Although that is illegal… many lives depend (on illegal gambling)… If you are involved in gambling, your brain will not shrink. You’re still sane. But your moral values (are compromised) because that’s illegal, against the law,” added Dela Rosa.

Winning the war

More than two months since the new administration took office, the PNP chief said the government is slowly winning the war against illegal drugs.

“We are seeing tremendous gains and slowly but surely winning the streets from the illegal drug menace while removing the fear and violence in the heart of our countrymen,” Dela Rosa said.

“The good news is that we significantly reduced the supply of illegal drugs in the country by some 80 to 90 percent through project double barrel and Oplan Tokhang. We have visited more than 850,000 houses resulting in the surrender of more than 720,000 drug personalities and arrested more than 15,700 pushers and users nationwide,” he added.

He urged police officers to continue with the relentless campaign and ensure that the human rights of those involved are respected.

“If we started strong in the past two months, let us continue even stronger in the next four months… The President is confident that we will win this war in six months and we are one with him in this effort,” said the PNP chief.

“Following the recent Davao bombing, we must be more vigilant and alert in all forms of violence. Bear in mind that we are not only focusing on the illegal drug problem. Terrorism is once more rearing its ugly head and we cannot afford to let our guard down now,” he added.

He also reminded the police not to overlook other crimes that threaten Filipinos, such as petty street crimes, robbery and kidnapping.