http://www.heraldscotland.com/news/14735774.Paige_Doherty__Clydebank_still_mourns_six_months_on/
111
11
Clydebank is a town still in mourning and reeling from shock.

Almost six months on from the brutal murder of teenager Paige Doherty, residents are still angry, still saddened, and still in disbelief.

And even closer to the 15-year-old's home in the area of Whitecrook, locals are feeling those same emotions ten-fold as they face life in the shadow of the now boarded up deli where John Leathem stabbed one of their own to death, plunging the knife into her tiny frame 61 times.

This is a close-knit community that has closed ranks around Paige's mother Pamela, her husband Andrew Munro and the teenager's siblings.

In the immediate aftermath of the murder, friends and acquaintances spoke to no-one, kept their opinions to themselves and instead focused their energy on supporting the family, fundraising and helping the police with their enquiries.

Even now, they refuse to open up about what happened, with one local explaining that this is an area where "everyone knows everyone" and they have all agreed to "keep their counsel".

She adds only that the effects of the vicious crime, which took place in March, are still "very raw" for the community.

When you move into the centre of Clydebank, the mood shifts from one of defensiveness to one of incredulity.

Locals are struggling to understand how this could have happened on their doorstep and are more worried about their own personal safety than ever before.

In the town's main shopping centre, John Linton, 33, of Drumry in Clydebank, explains: "Even now the feeling is still of total upset, total shock that that kind of violence has happened here.

"The amount of times he stabbed her, it's unbelievable. I just can't understand it, how could he do such a thing to a young girl?

"It's still quite raw for everyone, still in the forefront of people's minds, and I think it will be for quite a while."

Another resident, who asked not to be named, added that people are more "on edge" following the killing.

"I definitely think about personal safety a lot more now," she said. "I personally don't like to go out on my own, I always make sure I'm meeting someone.

"I've also got a young sister and I worry about her more now too.

"Obviously going out at night, you always thought about these things, but the fact this happened in broad daylight, it just makes you even more wary, makes you realise that bad things can happen at any time."

Paige's body was discovered in a wooded area of the town on March 21. She had more than 140 injuries.

The teen was last seen entering Leathem's Delicious Deli at 8.21am on the day she was killed and is believed to have been attacked soon after.

Pleading guilty in court on Monday, Leathem claimed he had "panicked" after Paige threatened to report him for sexual assault if he did not give her a job.

After he killed her, the married father-of-two was caught on CCTV moving her body to his car and buying cleaning materials.

He then opened the deli and returned to work, serving customers as normal until 3.15pm that afternoon.

The store is now completely boarded up and the row of shops it sits among would look just like any other in a small town but for the bouquet of flowers sitting on the ground outside.

It is hard to think of the horror that went on inside, and even harder to imagine how Paige's family, who live just streets away, will continue with their lives knowing the torment she suffered so close by.

Back in the town centre, shoppers are still heartbroken for them, but say the one good thing to come from the tragedy is the strong sense of community spirit that has grown over the last six months.

More than £20,000 was raised for the family to help with the funeral and other costs, while hundreds also attended a vigil, laying down candles, flowers and balloons in tribute to Paige.

One resident said: "The only good thing to come out of it is how everyone has pulled together. I've seen a lot of the fundraising and a few of the girls in my work who knew her have been at vigils and things to remember her.

"It really says a lot about the people of Clydebank the way they've rallied round the family."

Another added: "It's had a really big impact on the town, but one of the things I've noticed is that all the young people have been pulling together to remember her and support each other.

"I've heard about a few things that have been going on from my granddaughter, she didn't know Paige but I think all the young people are really feeling it."

Judge Lady Rae, who described the murder as a "savage, frenzied attack on a child" will sentence Leathem next month.