http://www.bbc.co.uk/newsbeat/article/37626472/jim-carrey-sued-by-ex-girlfriends-mother
112
11
The mother of Jim Carrey's ex-girlfriend Cathriona White is suing the actor for wrongful death.

It's less than a month since Ms White's estranged husband filed a similar lawsuit.

Both claim Ms White took her own life in September 2015 by overdosing on prescription drugs obtained by the actor.

His lawyers have previously said the allegations are "bogus" and "catagorically disputed".

But Brigid Sweetman says Mr Carrey should be "ashamed" of his treatment of her daughter.

"As a family, we want the world to know the truth about who Jim Carrey really is - a man that will give your daughter three STDs, lie about it, call her terrible names and demean her, use his high priced lawyers to try and shut her and her family up, and then give her illegal drugs."

"He should be ashamed for how he has used his Hollywood attorneys to badmouth Cat's husband Mark [Burton] with the hope that nobody will hold him responsible for what he did," Ms Sweetman said in papers filed with the Los Angeles Superior Court.

Mr Burton filed a similar lawsuit last month claiming Carrey used his "immense wealth and celebrity status" to illegally obtain the drugs Ambien, Propranolol and Percocet that caused Ms White's death.

He also claims Ms White, a make-up artist in Los Angeles, had contracted two types of herpes and gonorrhoea from the actor in 2013, but was pressurised into keeping quiet.

In response to Mr Burton's lawsuit, Carrey, 54, said: "Is this the way a 'husband' honours the memory of his 'wife?' The real disease here is greed, shameful greed."

The star's lawyers said he "will not pay money to end this opportunist's transparent shakedown lawsuit, and this malicious case will be dismissed.

"Mr Carrey has suffered a great deal in the last year with the suicide of the woman he dearly loved, and it is outrageous that he should be subjected to this predatory lawsuit."

A coroner ruled Ms White, who was from Co Tipperary in Ireland, had taken her own life.

It's understood she left a note describing how she'd been called a "whore" and "an opportunist" by Jim Carrey.

Brigid Sweetman said: "Every mother and father that has a daughter should read Cat's handwritten letter to Jim and decide for themselves what kind of guy he really is."

The court papers reveal Mr Carrey is being sued for wrongful death and violation of the drug dealer liabilty act.

Find us on Instagram at BBCNewsbeat and follow us on Snapchat, search for bbc_newsbeat