http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3833495/Australian-mother-Sara-Connor-face-murder-charges-police-death.html
111
11
Australian woman Sara Connor will face murder charges over the brutal death of a Balinese police officer.

The mother-of-two could face trial as early as next month after prosecutors accepted the murder case against her and her British boyfriend David Taylor.

The Byron Bay woman will face a string of offences, including murder, carrying a 15-year jail term, violence causing death, with a 12-year maximum, and assault that caused death, which has a seven-year maximum.

Taylor will face identical charges as the pair are set to front court for the first time next month in separate trials following the death of Wayan Sudarsa.

Scroll down for video

Sara Connor (pictured) will face murder charges over the death of a Balinese police officer

The bloodied body of Wayan Sudarsa (pictured) was discovered at the popular Kuta Beach in the early hours of August 17

Chief of General Crime at Denpasar District Attorney Ketut Maha Agung said prosecutors are 'convinced' they can prove the case against the pair in court.

Earlier, Head of Denpasar District Attorney Erna Normawati Widodo said the police investigation against the pair had been completed.

He said they had a sent a letter to the police investigator to enable them to be handed over to prosecutors.

This means Connor and Taylor will be moved from Denpasar Police Station where they have been detained since their August 19 arrest.

It is likely they will be sent to the notorious Kerobokan prison.

The completion of the investigation comes almost two months after Mr Sudarsa's bloodied body was discovered covered in sand on the popular Kuta Beach in the early hours of August 17.

Police say the pair went to the beach on the night of August 16 where they had been 'intimate'.

The mother will face charges of murder, violence causing death and assault causing death

Her British boyfriend David Taylor (pictured) will face identical charges in court next month

Connor then lost her purse, sparking Taylor to confront Mr Sudarsa about the misplaced item.

A scuffle allegedly erupted in which police say Taylor hit Mr Sudarsa with several items, including a two-way radio and a beer bottle.

They allege Connor also became involved and that Mr Sudarsa bit her on the thigh.

She maintains she was only trying to separate the pair.

Leaving the lifeless body of Mr Sudarsa on the sand, Connor and Taylor initially went back to their hotel.

In the days following the alleged murder, the pair burnt their clothes and dumped a number of the police officer's personal items, including his handphone.