http://www.philstar.com/metro/2016/10/24/1636562/12-suspects-killed-drug-war
112
11
MANILA, Philippines – Twelve suspected drug personalities were killed in separate incidents in Metro Manila over the weekend.

In Caloocan City, two alleged drug pushers were shot dead by two men who were killed by police following a brief chase at dawn yesterday.

Police said Noel Kilantang, 40, and a certain Teresa were sleeping when the assailants broke into their house along Rajah Sulayman street in Camarin and opened fire at past 1 a.m.

Kilantang and Teresa died at the scene.

Two others were hit by stray bullets. They were Jeffrey Cacheco, 35, and his two-year-old son, police said.

Responding police officers and barangay watchmen brought the Cachecos to the Tala Hospital. The boy was transferred to the East Avenue Medical Center.

Nation ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1

Kintanar, Teresa and Cacheco were allegedly involved in the illegal drug trade, authorities said.

Probers said a drug deal gone sour could be the motive for the killing.

Members of the Caloocan police community precinct 5 chased the suspects, who fled on a motorcycle along Camarin Road.

When cornered, the suspects fired at the policemen, prompting them to return fire.

Police have yet to identify the slain suspects who allegedly yielded two handguns, several sachets of shabu and a list of drug targets.

Three drug suspects were shot dead by suspected vigilantes at a house in Barangay 171, Bagumbong, also in Caloocan City on Saturday night.

Police have yet to identify the fatalities.

Christian Sano, 21, was buying cigarettes at a store in Barangay Catmon, Malabon when two unidentified men fired at him.

Sano died at the scene from a gunshot to the head. Police said the killing could be drug-related.

An alleged drug peddler, who had gone big time, was killed by police during a sting in Quezon City.

Najir Panansaran, alias Abdul Sadam, 23, died after he reportedly engaged police in a shootout in Barangay Bagbag.

Panansaran, who was on the drug watchlist of the Novaliches police, allegedly sold at least 50 grams of shabu per day and was described as a higher than street level drug pusher.

Henry Cortez, 52, died after he allegedly tried to lob a grenade at police during a raid on a drug den also in Quezon City yesterday.

The alleged maintainer of the drug den, Marites Romero, and eight others were arrested by police.

Tanod into drugs slain

A barangay watchman tagged as an alleged drug pusher was shot dead by car-riding suspects in Mandaluyong City.

Roy Cederio, 50, died from multiple gunshot wounds at the Mandaluyong City Medical Center.

Reports said that Cederio was patrolling Barangay Pleasant Hills when the assailants fired at him.

Suspected drug pusher Wilmark Carandang, who was shot by men on a motorcycle also in Mandaluyong, died while being treated in a hospital.

Police said Carandang was on the drug watchlist of Barangay Plainview. – Ghio Ong, Non Alquitran, Romina Cabrera