http://en.farsnews.com/newstext.aspx?nn=13950710001089
112
11
World

Russia: Direct Aggression by US in Syria to Cause Tectonic Shift in Middle East

TEHRAN (FNA)- Russian Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Maria Zakharova warned on Saturday that If the US launches a military campaign to oust the Syrian government, it would further fracture the country and have tremendous negative long-term consequence for the entire region.

“If the US launches a direct aggression against Damascus and the Syrian Army, it would cause a terrible, tectonic shift not only in the country, but in the entire region,” Maria Zakharova said during a talk show, which is to be aired fully later on Saturday and has been cited by RIA.

With no government in Damascus, there will be a power vacuum in Syria, which “so-called moderates, who are, in reality, not moderate at all but just terrorists of all flavors, would fill; and there will be no dealing with them,” the diplomat predicted.

“And later it would be aggravated the way it happened in Iraq. We know that [Saddam Hussein’s] Iraqi Army became the basis of the ISIL. Everything that both the [US-led] coalition and Russia are fighting now stems from it,” Zakharova added.

Russia and the US are accusing each other over the collapse of the ceasefire which was signed last month, but has failed. The US says Moscow did not do enough to win the trust of militants and to prevent the government of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad from attacking his opponents. Russia says Washington was incapable of separating moderate rebels from terrorist groups and keeping them in check for the truce to take hold.

On September 9, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov and US Secretary of State John Kerry announced a new peace plan to address the conflict in Syria that called for a ceasefire and anti-terrorism cooperation among other clauses of the treaty.

The Syrian Army, on September 19, declared end of ceasefire, regretting that militants did not adhere to any of the provisions stated in the truce agreement.

The Syrian army reaffirmed commitment to fight against terror after the end of truce, and did not add whether the truce will be reinstated any time in future.

According to the Russian General Staff, the terrorist groups in Syria have violated the ceasefire over 300 times since it took effect.

"The militants have violated the truce 302 times since the ceasefire was enforced, and killed 153 Syrian military men and 63 civilians," Lt. Gen. Sergei Rudskoy said.

He noted that over 250 civilians have also been wounded in the terrorists' attacks that came in violation of the ceasefire.