http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3791740/Locals-pick-rubble-Yemen-factory-destroyed-Saudi-bombing-campaign-uses-British-weapons-MPs-argue-halt-arms-deals-kingdom.html
111
11
Sales of UK weapons which could be used in Saudi Arabia's bombing campaign in Yemen should stop after allegations of human rights breaches, a parliamentary report has said.

The recommendation, in a Commons report, comes as Yemenis picked through the debris after Saudi air strikes - which have previously used British arms - reduced a water pipe factory to rubble.

The report alleges 'clear violations' of international human rights law, including one occasion when two missiles struck a wedding party, killing 47 civilians - among them 21 women and 15 children - and injuring 58 more.

Yemenis pick through the debris after Saudi air strikes - which have previously used British arms - reduced a water pipe factory to rubble

Pictures of the rubble (pictured) emerged after a commons report recommended sales of UK weapons, which could be used in Saudi Arabia's bombing campaign in Yemen, should stop after allegations of human rights breaches

A Yemeni inspects a factory allegedly targeted by Saudi-led airstrikes. The parliamentary report revealed that there have been a series of human rights abuses during the bombing campaign in Yemen

Smokes rise above the city (pictured) after Saudi-led coalition airstrikes targeted a Houthi-held position in Sana'a, Yemen, just yesterday

An independent inquiry should now be set up to investigate whether British vendors should have known that weapons would likely be used for human rights breaches by the Saudis, the report says.

Until then, the sales of weapons to Saudi Arabia - which has been heavily criticised for their brutal treatment of Shia rebels known as the Houthis - should be halted, the House of Commons Business and International Development Committees said.

But MPs are deeply split over the issue, with a conflicting government report released at the same time insisting that exports should only be blocked if UK courts rule that the weapons sales are unlawful.

The decision to publish the Commons Foreign Affairs Committee report at the same time shows the depth of controversy over claims that UK-made armaments are being used in indiscriminate bombing raids by the Saudi-led coalition in Yemen.

International medical aid charity Medecins Sans Frontieres has accused the coalition of war crimes for an air strike on its hospital which killed at least 11 last month.

An internal investigation launched by Saudi Arabia has been slammed as inadequate by campaigners, including the Campaign Against Arms Trade (CAAT), which is taking legal action to seek the suspension of arms export licences to the country.

The report alleges 'clear violations' of international human rights law, including one occasion when two missiles struck a wedding party, killing 47 civilians - among them 21 women and 15 children - and injuring 58 more. Pictured is the factory in Sanaía bombed by the coalition

An independent inquiry should now be set up to investigate whether British vendors should have known that weapons would likely be used for human rights breaches by the Saudis, the report says. Pictured is the Sanaía factory

The sales of weapons to Saudi Arabia - which has been heavily criticised for their brutal treatment of Shia rebels known as the Houthis - should be halted until the investigation is carried out, the report says. Pictured is Sanaía

The FAC's Conservative chairman Crispin Blunt is understood to have drawn up the rival document after objecting to proposals to issue the call for immediate suspension under the banner of the House of Commons Committees on Arms Export Controls (CAEC) - a panel which brings together the cross-party committees for Business, Foreign Affairs, Defence and International Development.

Reports suggested that Mr Blunt walked out of a private meeting of the CAEC to prevent a vote being taken on the draft report, which he regarded as one-sided.

Meanwhile, the Defence Committee has given no indication of whether it intends to publish its own report.

Conservative MP Chris White, who chaired the CAEC inquiry into the exports and is a member of the Business Committee, said: 'The UK led the way in establishing international humanitarian law to govern the sale of arms. The conflict in Yemen has raised serious concerns that we are not showing equal determination in ensuring that these are respected.

MPs are deeply split over the issue, with a conflicting government report released at the same time insisting that exports should only be blocked if UK courts rule that the weapons sales are unlawful. Pictured is Sanaía

Yemeni explosives experts examine the rubble in Sinaia, but even if they find British weapons, there is no proof that the vendors will have broken international law

Arms trade law made clear that export licences should not be granted 'where there is a clear risk that they might be used in a serious violation of IHL'. Pictured is Sanaía

MISSILE FACTORY OR PLANT MAKING PIPES? The coalition bombed a Yemeni industrial site in the capital Sanaa on Tuesday, damaging what the Saudi-led alliance said was a workshop for missile parts but businessmen claimed was a factory for water pipes and building materials. The buildings struck included a factory used by Yemen's Alsonidar Group to make and sell pumps under a long-standing arrangement with Italian water specialist company Caprari, both companies said. That strike caused a fire that destroyed half the premises and resulted in several million dollars worth of damage, said Caprari managing director Alberto Caprari. There were no casualties in the attack on the Alsonidar site in al-Rawda district in northern Sanaa, which the Yemeni company said also destroyed a red brick factory and damaged another plant producing metal pipes.

'During this inquiry we have heard evidence from respected sources that weapons made in the UK have been used in contravention of International Humanitarian Law. The Government can no longer wait and see and must now take urgent action, halting the sale of arms to the Saudi-led coalition until we can be sure that there is no risk of violation.

'We call on the Government to continue the UK's long-standing commitment to IHL and lead the international community in establishing a strong, independent inquiry. The circumstances surrounding incidents in Yemen, such as allegations of the use of cluster bombs, must be firmly established and send a clear message to all combatants in Yemen that human rights must be respected.

'The current system for overseeing the sale of arms must be improved. At present we do not have sufficient transparency to hold licensing decisions to account or the confidence that the benchmarks ensuring human rights law is respected are high enough. This must be addressed immediately.'

Labour MP Stephen Twigg, chair of the International Development Committee, added: 'We remain unconvinced that Saudi Arabia is best placed to investigate reports of breaches of humanitarian law - progress so far has been too slow.

'It is important to remember that both sides to the conflict are potentially involved in breaches of humanitarian law and without credible investigations, neither side is being held accountable for their actions.'

Arms trade law made clear that export licences should not be granted 'where there is a clear risk that they might be used in a serious violation of IHL', said Mr Twigg.

He added: 'It is hard to understand how a reliable licence assessment process would not have concluded that there is a clear risk of misuse of at least some arms exports to Saudi Arabia.'

The building has been totally destroyed by the bombs. The Saudi coalition claim that it was being used to make arms, but businessmen in the area claim it was a factory making water pipes

Damage like this (pictured in Sanaía) is not uncommon in Yemen, as the Saudi-led coalition has launched a brutal air raid campaign in the country, in which they killed 47 people at a wedding party

This young man watches the smoke rise from a bomb dropped in a Houthi-led position in Sanaía on Wednesday (pictured)

The FAC report backed an independent UN-led investigation into allegations of human rights violations, but said that the courts are the most appropriate body to decide whether the Government has broken the law by permitting continued sales.

'Saudi Arabia is a key partner of the United Kingdom in addressing our shared challenges in the Middle East,' said Mr Blunt.

'I am yet to hear any persuasive argument for how we better secure our many strategic objectives in the region without a strong relationship with Saudi Arabia.

'This includes bringing about a political solution to the current conflict in Yemen, that was so deplorably precipitated by the armed Houthi rebellion in 2014.

'However, the massive British interest in continued UK-Saudi relations cannot override our wider legal and moral obligations.

'It is crucial that the UK does everything in its power to ensure full compliance with international humanitarian law by the Saudi-led coalition.'