http://www.business-standard.com/article/politics/with-jaya-s-photo-panneerselvam-chairs-first-tn-cabinet-meet-116101900195_1.html
115
11
With Jaya's photo, Panneerselvam chairs first TN Cabinet meet

He has been allocated the portfolios held by ailing Chief Minister Jayalalithaa

The government’s on Wednesday was held under the leadership of Finance Minister in the absence of Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa, who has been undergoing treatment at Apollo Hospitals here since September 22.



Last week, Governor Vidyasagar Rao had allotted the portfolios held by to Panneerselvam, till she could resume official duties. The governor also said that meetings would be presided over by Panneerselvam.



Panneerselvam chaired the with Jayalalithaa’s photo in front of him. This is the first since he got the portfolios held by the ailing chief minister, which include Home and Police. This was the third of the after the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam won the Assembly elections in May. The first meet was held under on May 23, soon after the swearing-in, followed by another in July ahead of the state Budget.



Panneerselvam, her trusted aide, had filled in for her on two earlier occasions when she was unseated for a brief period. The last occasion was when she was convicted in a disproportionate assets case last year – Panneerselvam held the fort till the Karnataka High Court acquitted her of all charges. At that time, he was sworn in as CM. This time around, it was a simple transfer of portfolios as temporary charge.





There was no official communication from the government about the meeting, except for a picture. Sources said that during the one-hour meeting, the water dispute was discussed. is locked in a legal battle with its neighbour over release of water to the state. Opposition parties in the state have been demanding an all-party to discuss the issue. The Opposition has been alleging that a report submitted by the high-level technical committee in the Supreme Court did not address Tamil Nadu’s concerns adequately. On Tuesday, the government had sought permission from the Supreme Court to submit its objections to the report.

Among the other issues that were discussed at the was appointment of special officers for governing local bodies, sources said.

The Election Commission of India has announced byelections in Aravakurichi, Thanjavur and Thiruparankundram Assembly seats. Notably, minutes after the meeting, released the candidate list for these constituencies. nominated V Senthil Balaji for Aravakurichi, M Rangasamy for Thanjavur and A K Bose for Thiruparankundram.

The also discussed the issue of land allotment to investors, who signed a memorandum of understanding with the government during the Global Investors’ Meet in September last year.

Jayalalithaa, 68, was admitted to the hospital last month after she complained of fever and dehydration.

T E Narasimhan