http://www.thenational.scot/news/ebola-nurse-pauline-cafferkey-cleared-of-misconduct-charges.22406
112
11
Ebola nurse Pauline Cafferkey cleared of misconduct charges

If you would prefer unlimited access, please support our journalism with a website subscription. Subscribe today for just £3.99 a month.

Registered users can read up to 10 articles for free each month.

Will fin breid, barley-bree an paintit room. Whan MacLean meets wi's friens in Springburn. Aa thae roses an geeans will turn tae blume. An a black laud frae yont Nyanga. Dings the fell gallows o the burghers doun.

Black an white ane-til-ither mairriet. Mak the vile barracks o thair maisters bare. Sae come aa ye at hame wi freedom. Never heed whit the houdies croak for Doom. In yer hous aa the bairns o Aidam.

Tak the road an seek ither loanins. Wi thair ill-ploys tae sport an play. Nae mair will our bonnie callants. Merch tae war whan our braggarts crousely craw. Nor wee weans frae pitheid an clachan. Murn the ships sailin doun the Broomielaw. Broken faimilies in launs we've hairriet. Will curse 'Scotlan the Brave' nae mair, nae mair.

Roch the win i the clear day's dawin. Blaws the clouds heilster-gowdie owre the bay. But thair's mair nor a roch win blawin. Thro the Great Glen o the warl the day. It's a thocht that wad gar our rottans. Aa thae rogues that gang gallus fresh an gay.

SCOTTISH Ebola nurse Pauline Cafferkey, who faced being struck off over misconduct charges, has been cleared after a “stressful and upsetting” disciplinary hearing.

SCOTTISH Ebola nurse Pauline Cafferkey, who faced being struck off over misconduct charges, has been cleared after a “stressful and upsetting” disciplinary hearing.

In response to the news, First Minister Nicola Sturgeon tweeted: “Sending my very best wishes to Pauline Cafferkey. Her bravery is an inspiration to all of us.”

The Scottish Parliament’s former presiding officer Tricia Marwick described the case as “disgraceful”, tweeting: “Those responsible for bringing these charges need to take a hard look at themselves.”

Cafferkey was hauled before the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) over allegations she allowed a wrong temperature to be recorded during the screening process at Heathrow on her arrival in the UK.

The 40-year-old, from Cambuslang near Glasgow, was infected with Ebola while working as volunteer with Save The Children in Sierra Leone in 2014.

The conduct and competence panel dismissed the charges after hearing she had been impaired by illness. Another charge of dishonesty was also dropped.

After the hearing in Edinburgh, Cafferkey’s lawyer, Joyce Cullen, read a statement on her client’s behalf saying she was relieved to have been cleared of wrongdoing after putting her life at risk to help people suffering from Ebola.

She said that the medics returning from Sierra Leone had encountered “chaotic scenes” and put the focus on Public Health England for the ordeal her client had endured.

“Public Health England were unprepared for the volume of people returning from countries affected by Ebola,” Cullen said.

“There were also serious failures in communication amongst the Public Health England staff.”

Cullen said it was “perhaps ironic” that given the criticisms made about Public Health England processes, it was their complaint which led to the NMC investigation and charges being brought against her client.

She said the disciplinary process had been “stressful and upsetting” for her client.

Cullen added: “Throughout her career Pauline has been motivated by a genuine desire to help other people even if this meant putting her own life at risk. She would never have knowingly put anyone in danger. Pauline was lucky to survive.

“She is delighted the panel has made the decision she has no case to answer and is now able to continue her career in Scotland, where she will carry on looking after families in Blantyre, who’ve been appreciative of her skills and dedication.”

Last month it emerged that Cafferkey faced four misconduct charges from the NMC including dishonesty which was withdrawn on the first day of the hearing.

The first charge alleged that while in a Public Health England screening area, inside Terminal 4 at Heathrow, she allowed an incorrect temperature to be recorded on a screening form.

The second charge alleged that she left the screening area without reporting her true temperature to medics and the third alleged that she did not tell a doctor she had recently taken paracetamol. The panel ruled Cafferkey not guilty on all charges.

In reaching the decision, NMC chairman Timothy Cole said “compelling and clear medical evidence” about Cafferkey’s state of mind and ability to reason and make objective decisions at the time was central to the panel’s deliberations.

Cole told Cafferkey: “The panel has concluded that your actions did not amount to misconduct. In your diminished medical state you were swept along by events.”

Cafferkey was part of a British team of volunteers at the Kerry Town Ebola treatment centre when she contracted the deadly virus.