http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/politics-and-nation/kejriwal-govt-seeks-to-regularise-70000-jobs/articleshow/55009593.cms
20
2
NEW DELHI: In a move that could impact over 70,000 employees, the Aam Aadmi Party government asked all state departments on Saturday to identify contractual staff by November 15 and finalise proposals for their regularisation.The departments have been asked to send their proposals to the chief secretary. A unified policy will then be firmed up and brought before the cabinet. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said a proposal for regularisation of guest teachers was being sent to the Lieutenant Governor.If the L-G did not approve it, the government will go to the Supreme Court, he said.There are around 17,000 guest teachers working in Delhi government schools. The move is being seen as timed for the municipal polls early next year. Regularisation of contractual staff was among AAP's poll promises in 2013 and then again in the 2015 assembly polls. During its 49-day stint in office, the AAP govern ment had set up a committee to look into regularisation of contract employees. Central rule followed but last year when AAP returned to office, it revived the promise. The policy was put up before the cabinet. It has been a year since then and the policy has gone through many changes.On Saturday , after a cabinet meeting, Kejriwal announced that state departments had been directed to follow up on the cabinet decision of October 2015 and “ensure that all hurdles are removed in the way of regularisation of employees working on contract“. “The process for regularisation of services of guest teachers in the education department is already at an advanced stage and the proposal has been finalised,“ a statement from the government said.“Last year the cabinet had decided that all those employees who are working on contract against existing posts will be regularised. A policy was devised for making them permanent and on the basis of this, every department was asked to send a proposal. When the policy was passed last year, we decided to do a trial in case of guest teachers,“ Kejriwal said.The issue could turn into yet another flashpoint between the AAP government and the lieutenant governor. LG Najeeb Jung had turned down AAP's policy last year as it gave weightage to guest teachers' experience. Kejriwal said the policy was in keeping with the SC judgment in the Uma Devi case that contractual employees must sit for an open exam along with other candidates.“We are hopeful that this policy will stand,“ the CM said, adding that the government would go to court if the LG rejected the policy again. The Government School eachers' Association Teachers' Association (GSTA), which had welcomed the scheme proposed by the AAP government in June last year, has dismissed the new policy .“These promises are being made because MCD elections are coming up. If the government was serious about this, they could have pushed it through, like their decisions on water and electricity,“ said GSTA general secretary Ajay Vir Yadav.