http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3833149/Porn-star-tells-court-performed-girl-girl-Danny-Devito-lookalike-HBOS-banker-allegedly-ripping-company-245m-fraud.html
112
11
A porn star told a court that she performed a ‘girl on girl’ show for an HBOS banker who was allegedly ripping off the company in a £245 million fraud.

Call girl Suzie Best said she performed in front of banker Lynden Scourfield, 54, who she described as a 'Danny Devito lookalike'.

Scourfield was allegedly involved in a ‘corrupt relationship’ with consultant David Mills, 59, which saw companies plunge into deep debt and HBOS write off £245million.

A porn star has told how she performed a ‘girl on girl’ show for HBOS banker Lynden Scourfield, 54, (right) who was allegedly ripping off the company in a £245 million fraud. He was allegedly involved in a ‘corrupt relationship’ with consultant David Mills, 59 (left)

Scourfield is not on trial but Mills and five others were in the dock at Southwark Crown Court on Tuesday accused of being involved in the scam.

Mills is joined in the dock by HBOS banker Mark Dobson, 55, fellow consultant Michael Bancroft, 73, and his wife Alison Mills, 51, who were also allegedly involved.

Accountants John ‘Tony’ Cartwright, 71, and Jonathan Cohen, 57, are also on trial.

The court previously heard how Mills allegedly pumped Scourfield with 'money, lavish hospitality and sexual encounters with high class escorts' in a bid to corrupt him.

The court previously heard how Mills (pictured with his wife Alison) allegedly pumped Scourfield with 'money, lavish hospitality and sexual encounters with high class escorts' in a bid to corrupt him

Ms Best said in a statement that she and girls known only as ‘Amber’ and ‘FR’ received a booking to meet three men ‘all in their 50s, smartly dressed in suits’, including a ‘Danny DeVito lookalike’ at a Chinese restaurant in December 2005.

The court heard the call girls knew some of the men they serviced as ‘posh twat bankers.’

Ms Best said she ‘vaguely remembered doing a girl on girl show’ when they went to a nearby flat after the meal, before she performed oral sex on some of the men.

She added that one of the men with ‘grey, brushed-back hair’ asked her to go to the bedroom with him, but she ‘didn’t think he could get an erection at any stage’.

From left to right, Michael Bancroft, Mills and Scourfield are pictured in Barbados together

Jurors were shown pictures of the men on luxury trips abroad as evidence of the ‘corrupt relationship’ between Scourfield and Mills. Scourfield is pictured in Russia

She said around May 2006, she received a call from the Danny DeVito lookalike, who asked her to meet.

She said she had no idea how he got her number, ‘but agreed to meet at a restaurant in central London.’

Ms Best said she found him ‘difficult to talk to’ but added: ‘I drove us both to the hotel and remember that night my car got clamped outside the Soho Hotel.’

She said she recalled him being ‘very hairy on his back’ but added: ‘I don’t know what, if any, sex acts took place.’

HBOS banker Mark Dobson, 55,(left) and Michael Bancroft, 73, (right) were also allegedly involved in the scam

Ms Best said the man walked her to the car park afterwards: ‘When we got there, my car was clamped. He just walked back to the hotel and left me there.

‘I called up and it cost £250 to get it released. I have never heard from any of these men again.’

Ms Best attended an ID parade and confirmed she was referring to Scourfield as the Danny Devito lookalike, the court heard.

She said in a statement she had been in the adult movie business for around six years in 2005 and was doing live shows on Television X at the time.

The trial continues.