http://punemirror.indiatimes.com/pune/cover-story/Now-Shuklas-lens-on-crime-branch-ops/articleshow/55004402.cms
20
2
A new clean-up clause



Cases registered and then going into ‘negotiations’ and ‘settlements’, with allusions to harassment by police, perhaps set alarm bells ringing, prompting CP to step in



In an unprecedented move, Pune police commissioner Rashmi Shukla has issued a diktat that no case will be investigated by the local crime branch units, economic offences wing (EOW) or the cybercrime cell without her nod.



“There have been several instances wherein senior officers didn’t know about cases being probed by the crime branch units, EOW or the cybercrime cell. People approached police officers randomly with their issues and the opposite parties were summoned. This also led to harassment. I have learnt that many builders were also called for inquisition. These cases came to our notice much later. So, I felt the need to intervene and ensure that the investigations are routed through me. This will work as a deterrent to officers who indulge in harassment and also make serious investigation,” Shukla told Mirror.



She refused to specify the cases where the police personnel had erred in following the set processes. Sources in the police explained that there have been instances where cases were resolved between the parties through “negotiations” and “settlements”, with the cops acting as mediators, particularly where there was a thin line between civil or criminal nature of property offences involving high sums of money.



While the local crime branch units investigate serious body offences such as murder, chain-snatching and robbery, the cybercrime cell focuses on crimes committed using the internet and mobile networks.



The EOW is tasked with looking into white-collar crimes, cheating, fraud as well as complicated property, land matters and so on . The EOW investigations usually involve collection and scrutiny of voluminous documents from banks, as also from various government departments.



At present, the organisational setup of the department shows that one deputy commissioner of police (DCP) heads the EOW and cybercrime and another DCP supervises local crime branch units. They both report to the additional commissioner of police (crime branch) and then to the joint commissioner of police. There are five police inspectors under the EOW and one police inspector in the cyber cell, under one ACP. The nine units of the local crime branch report to another ACP.



According the new order, after getting any complaint application for any cognisable offence, the crime branch units as well as EOW will conduct preliminary inquiry only on the orders of the police commissioner. On the other hand, the cybercrime cell may accept complaint applications for inquiry, but detailed investigation has to be done only after it has been vetted by the commissioner.



Despite Shukla’s reference to cases of harassment, a senior police officer chose to wax over the move. “This has been in discussion for a long time, but not for any controversial reasons. In Pune, the crime branch does not have a police station of its own where cases can be registered as per the provisions of the criminal procedure code (CrPC). Whenever there is any complaint, it is shown to the DCP and after preliminary inquiry, FIRs are registered with the local police station under whose jurisdiction the incident has taken place. The order of the commissioner will act like a sanction to go ahead in any case. We were doing it earlier, but not in all cases. Now, the process has been streamlined and all cases will be routed through the commissioner,” he said.



Earlier, in November last year, it was made mandatory for police stations to seek permission from the zonal deputy commissioner of police (DCP) before registering FIRs involving a huge sum of money or property matters. It was done as many cases were registered, only to be “settled” later on.



“In many cases, cops accept bribe from both sides. The complainant pays to get the case registered and the opposite party, which is intentionally put under pressure following the registration of a case, pays so that the cops can go soft. Temptations are high when it comes to matters involving hefty amounts of money," an officer had earlier told Mirror.



This order was issued by joint commissioner of police Sunil Ramanand to all senior police inspectors, divisional ACPs, zonal DCPs and additional commissioners of the north and south regions, stating that every economic offence, the civil or criminal nature of which is unclear, must be approved before registration of the FIR.



Welcoming the move, Shantilal Kataria, president of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI), Pune metro, however said, “This is good, but I personally have not come across any complaint from a member builder of any harassment by police.”





█ People approached police officers randomly with their issues and the opposite parties were summoned. This also led to harassment. I have learnt that many builders were also called for inquisition



- RASHMI SHUKLA, Commissioner of police, Pune city