https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/morning-mix/wp/2016/10/11/retailer-pulls-controversial-high-fashion-line-just-say-moschino-because-critics-say-it-glamorizes-pills/
1121
11
https://twitter.com/Moschino/status/783358536793194496?lang=en

When Italian fashion brand Moschino unveiled its pill-themed “just say Moschino” spring 2017 collection, to fashionistas it was just another episode in designer Jeremy Scott’s commitment to self-aware, if pricey, garishness. The $75 iPhone 6 cover featured a blister pack of drug tablets, the thousand-dollar T-shirt dress was emblazoned with a giant pill bottle and the $950 shoulder bag itself took the form of a pharmaceutical container.

To Vogue, this was a tongue-in-cheek “capsule collection” from a man who once had a wardrobe dedicated to McDonald’s. (A capsule collection is a pared-down wardrobe with just a few key items representing its theme.) To New York magazine it was a winking reference to the “Valley of the Dolls.” Even the slogan, “just say Moschino,” was an echo of the ’80s, remixing the famous words of war-on-drugs crusader first lady Nancy Reagan.

To Randy Anderson, however, a Minneapolis-based drug and alcohol counselor, the clothes and bags were anything but aware of 2016’s reality. As he wrote in a recent Change.org petition, the fashion collection glamorized pill-popping in the midst of an opioid epidemic.

[A new front in the opioid war: Elephant tranquilizer]

“In 2014,” he wrote, “47,055 people died of an accidental drug overdose,” citing Centers for Disease and Control Prevention data. Over-prescription of painkillers like Vicodin and OxyContin, in particular, have been blamed for the rise in pill abuse.

At least one retailer took note of the protest. Department store Nordstrom ceased selling the items online and in the stores where the items had been stocked.

“We appreciate all the constructive feedback we received from concerned customers and ultimately decided to remove the collection from our site and the three stores where we offered it,” a representative told the Los Angeles Times.

Anderson called Nordstrom’s decision a “victory” in an interview with the Star Tribune. He had previously described the items as an affront to mothers who would tell him about the children who had lost their lives to prescription medication overdoses. The counselor, who himself has recovered from a drug addiction, said he will continue to petition retailers like Saks Fifth Avenue to stop carrying the products.

[‘This is unprecedented’: 174 heroin overdoses in 6 days in Cincinnati]

In a statement to the Hollywood Reporter on Monday, Moschino defended the designs. “The Moschino capsule collection was inspired by a play on the word ‘capsule’ translated literally as a collection of ‘capsule-themed’ products,” a representative said. “There was never any intent to promote prescription drug abuse.”

This is not the first time Scott has created a pill-themed product. In 2011, he worked with Longchamp to create a tote bag with a pill print, a play on Longchamp’s Le Pliage line. His previous pharmaceutical references did not spark similar controversy.

[This new street drug is 10,000 times more potent than morphine, and now it’s showing up in Canada and the U.S.]