http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/lucknow/Farmers-who-took-cots-branded-thieves-but-Mallya-a-defaulter-Rahul-Gandhi/articleshow/54152221.cms
112
11
Sahjani (Gorakhpur): Referring to Uttar Pradesh's impoverished farmers who walked away with cots at the end of his maiden 'Khaat Sabha' in Deoria on Tuesday, Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi defended the farmer community and lobbed the ball back into the opposition and media court, saying while farmers were being branded as 'thieves' for taking cots home, a person like Vijay Mallya , who escaped from the country, is called a 'defaulter'. Rahul made first attack during his door-to-door campaign in Sahjani village of Gorakhpur, where he had gone to meet farmers who have pledged support to Congress's campaign to demand a loan-waiver package for them.Later, attacking the BJP at a 'Khaat Sabha' in Khalilabad , Sant Kabir Nagar, Rahul said, "When farmers took khaats home yesterday (Tuesday), the media and the BJP accused them of being 'thieves' but when Vijay Mallya decamps, he is called a 'defaulter'. It shows the inherent bias in people and also that the government doesn't care."What began with one slogan at a corner meeting-'Janata Trast, Modiji Mast' (Masses in distress, Modi ji making merry)-became the leitmotif of the Rahul's UP Kisan Yatra on the second day.Citing Prime Minister Narendra Modi 's 'anti-poor policies', Rahul attacked him for neglecting his duties back home to travel abroad. "PM made countless promises to people in 2014 but kept none. In the last one year, he waived Rs 1.10 lakh crore loans of corporates. But he is the PM and we can't stop him. But we will urge him also to give loan waivers to farmers."In Gorakhpur on Wednesday morning, Rahul first visited the encephalitis wing of the BRD Medical College. Soon after, he alleged that the Modi government had cut funds to run the encephalitis programme started by the UPA government, and also slashed the money reserved for paying and hiring staff to tackle a disease that was causing scores of deaths every years. Later, during a 5km road show through the city, Rahul waved to the crowds who turned up, leaning forward to shake hands and to sign autographs as crowds handed out pieces of paper, books and magazines to get them signed.At corner meetings, and from atop his SUV, Rahul also repeated his barb against Modi's frequent foreign tours. He said, "I want to remind Modiji that he is the prime minister of India. He keeps travelling to other countries all the time and shakes hands with some premiers and hugs some others, but he seems to have forgotten that he is needed most urgently back home, where the condition of his own people-the farmers-is extremely poor."During his Gorakhpur road show, Rahul also repeated the Congress's campaign message and its farmer outreach. "Congress is demanding three things: loan waiver, electricity bills to be halved, and for the MSP to be settled in favour of the farmers," he said.