http://thenationonlineng.net/lagos-assembly-writes-senate-rethink-special-status-bill/
111
11
Lagos State House of Assembly at plenary yesterday resolved to write the Senate to jettison sentiments on the issue of special status for the state.

The Senate last week rejected a motion sponsored by Senator Oluremi Tinubu.

The House was reacting to a motion on the issue raised by Bisi Yusuf (Alimosho 1) under matter of urgent public importance.

Yusuf, said the Senate rejected the request without any good reason.

He added: “Most of them, who rejected the request have their families here in Lagos.”

He wondered why the senators could refuse such a request when the state was not being paid derivation for revenues accruing to the Federal Government from the state’s two sea ports as well as the VAT realised from.

He urged his colleagues to call on the Senate to revisit and pass the bill.

Although most of the lawmakers, who contributed to the debate, condemned the Senate’s action.

They noted that the rejection was a bad signal and capable of leading to the kind of situation prevailing in the Niger Delta.

They added that the senators were not conversant with the unique place of Lagos in Nigeria and Africa.

Obasa advised against attacking “our senior colleagues” and that to get the bill through, House members should reach out to senators they know to see reason to pass the bill into law.

He said a special status for Lagos was for the benefit of the citizenry and not Lagos alone.

“Lagos is important to all Nigerians because apart from being the commercial nerve centre of the country, the struggle for independence and all political developments started here,” he said.

The Speaker hailed the House on the issue “because we have been on this issue for years”.

He lauded Senator Tinubu for her determination, commitment and devotion to get things done in the state, urging her not to be tired but continue with her determination to get things done.

Obasa, however, cautioned the senators to tread carefully.

“They must not instigate Lagos, otherwise their attitude shows that they don’t want Lagos in Nigeria and their action as pointed out by a member here is capable of giving rise to what is happening in the Niger Delta now,” he said.

A PDP member in the House, Jude Idimogun, said he supported the call for a special status and condemned its rejection by the Senate.

He called for the representation of the bill and appealed to Senator Tinubu to lobby her colleagues for the bill to be passed.

He said: “Lagos is unique because it is only in Lagos that an Ibo man can be member of the state Assembly.”

Deputy Speaker Sanni Eshilokun, said the senators were only driven by ego and ethnocentrism in rejecting the bill.

Other lawmakers felt there was no justification for the rejection of the request.