https://au.news.yahoo.com/thewest/wa/a/32721845/glamour-couple-deliver-parting-shot-as-they-go/
114
11
Indian entrepreneurs Pankaj and Radhika Oswal flew out of the country the day they settled their court case last week, claiming that they felt “victorious”, while accusing Australia of exploiting business migrants.

VIDEO Oswals back in Australia

The couple are believed to have won at least $200 million in their case against ANZ, receivers PPB and Apache Energy over the sale of the Burrup fertiliser plant.

Their winnings fell well short of the $2.5 billion they claimed they were owed and come with a $70 million legal bill.

The couple have been in Australia since April — after a six-year hiatus abroad — and were subject to a travel ban over Mrs Oswal’s $186 million unpaid tax bill until their legal and tax matters were settled last week.

Pankaj Oswal with his wife Radhika Oswal. Picture: Jeremy Piper

Speaking on a stopover en route to Dubai on Friday evening, Mrs Oswal took a parting swipe at Australia, saying it was unlikely the pair would ever do business in the country again.

“Pankaj always felt that the Australian energy sector is one of the most opportunistic areas of its branch in the world, but given the unfortunate negative experiences we have been through here, it has not been motivating,” she said.

“However we hope that this will lead to a change for other business-minded immigrants and lead to reform of the systems that harness such exploitable and capitalising behaviour towards them.”

Mrs Oswal repeatedly stressed her gratitude at the Australian justice system for exposing their side of the story but the couple are keeping mum on the terms of their settlement.

Radhika and Pankaj Oswal on a first class flight to Dubai. Picture: Supplied

It means the public will be no wiser on allegations Mr Oswal siphoned $150 million from the business for his personal use.

Nor will he face penalty for forging European security documents for Australian loans, which Mrs Oswal confirmed in court.

Similarly, ANZ bank will not be judged in a court of law for allegedly underselling the fertiliser plant by hundreds of millions of dollars and using strongarm tactics to force Mrs Oswal into selling her 35 per cent share.

Mrs Oswal said they were leaving with their “heads held high”, though the saga had taken a toll on their health.

“We feel victorious and at the same time very relieved that we have finally been able to get much-deserved justice and have our story heard through the justice system,” she said.

“We left on the same day as the settlement as we have been quite keen to move on.

“It had been almost six intense months preceded by six stressful years of an emotionally wrenching case over the saga involving a decade of our lives and hard work.” The Oswals arrived in Dubai at the weekend and will take some time to figure out where they want to live and what they want to do with their new fortune.

However, there will be little time for rest with Mr Oswal having to focus on a legal battle in India over his inheritance from his late father Abhey’s billion-dollar-plus fortune.

Mr Oswal junior has been cut out of two listed firms, Oswal Greentech and Oswal Agro Mills, which is run by his mother Aruna.

His mother claims her oldest son was disowned by her late husband because of his legal problems in Australia, which Mr Oswal claims is a false rumour.

The unfinished and now derelict Taj Mahal on Swan will soon be gone. Picture: The West Australian

Mrs Oswal said the family may eventually live in New York City, which she claims is a city “truly made of and by immigrants”.

For her part, Mrs Oswal said she was considering setting up a charity to help empower women.

“I have also been considering starting a non-profit organisation for women's empowerment focusing more towards (largely ignored) socially and culturally influenced attitudes and manoeuvres which limit women, in countries such as India,” she said.

She said it was unlikely the family would ever return to Perth, where they spent nine years from 2001. Mr Oswal spent the first few years in WA setting up the world’s biggest liquid ammonia plant on the Burrup Peninsula.

The plant, 1550km from Perth, opened in 2006 and at one time employed 500 people.

The Yara fertiliser plant on the Burrup Peninsula. Picture: Tom Zaunmayr

Mr Oswal said he borrowed $300 million from friends, and about $900 million from ANZ that was guaranteed by the Oswals’ shares.

Mr Oswal owned 30 per cent, his wife owned 35 per cent and Norwegian ammonia group Yara International owned the rest. The bank appointed PPB as receivers to Burrup in late 2010 over allegations he had siphoned millions of dollars out of the company for personal use.

Mr Oswal denied the claims, alleging it was restitution for loans he had made to the company. He accused PPB of excessive charges of about $15 million in remuneration fees and expenses over 14 months.

The Oswals’ shares were sold to Apache Corp and Yara in January 2011 for $US560 million, which paid down their ANZ debt. Mr Oswal sued, claiming it was sold for less than half its value.