http://classic.iol.co.za/capetimes/education-mec-slates-serial-latecomers-over-violence-1.2065662
112
11
JOE Slovo High School in Khayelitsha will remain closed for the rest of the week after the school was damaged during protests this week.

Pupils are upset because they have to pay fines for coming late. This used to be R2 but has now been increased to R5.

They also say they have to pay R400 for school fees and a R100 fine if the payment is late. Pregnant pupils are fined R850.

Teacher and governing body secretary Vusi Mahobe said the fines were never discussed by the school's governing body.

Education MEC Debbie Schäfer has condemned the violence, blaming “serial latecomers”, but she said the allegations are concerning and being investigated by district officials.

On Tuesday, pupils broke windows and badly damaged classrooms. Yesterday, they marched to the Western Cape Education Department to hand over a memorandum and demand that principal Majiet Parker be dismissed.

Matriculants did not write their mock exams yesterday or the day before because of the protest.

Mahobe said they were reaching out to parents and education officials to address the situation.

“The matriculants were meant to write today (yesterday) but due to circumstances and conditions at school they could not. We have heard the reasons for the disruptions,” said Mahobe.

He said the principal would be best to address allegations as fines were not decided at SGB level, but the principal was not available.

At the march the pupils were supported by the Congress of South African Students and a Learner Representative Council member of the school said parents could not afford the fines.

One of the pupils said families could not afford the money the school wanted.

“Besides the R5 late fee the contribution amount is R400, with a R100 late fee and you are refused your report if you don't pay. Pupils are charged R850 for being pregnant, which is not right as many of our parents live off grants,” said the pupil.

She said parents were scared of the principal and the governing body had no knowledge of the fines.

“He said the money was for school repairs, but till now there are no changes. Our parents are scared of the principal and find it difficult to express themselves in English.

"This has been going on for five years and that's why we are here, because we want him out.”

In a statement, Schäfer condemned the actions of “a group of serial latecomers” and confirmed the department received their memorandum.

“There are ways of raising issues, but resorting to violence and destroying public property is not one of them.

"Measures to curb latecoming varies from school to school, but pupils cannot be charged for latecoming,” she said.

She said parents must take up these matters with the elected governing body and allegations would be investigated by district officials.

Schäfer said the WCED’s priority was to ensure the safety of pupils and educators and that teaching and learning was restored as quickly as possible.

dominic.adriaanse@inl.co.za