http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/nashik/Sacked-school-staffer-kills-self-principal-arrested/articleshow/54457737.cms
111
11
NASHIK: Forced out of job for allegedly demanding a hike in wages, Barnes School employee Chinnapaa Mandri (55) committed suicide on the campus on Wednesday. School principal Julian Luke was arrested by the Deolali Camp police for abetment to suicide.Mandri allegedly hanged himself from a tree around 7am. The police have registered a case of abetment of suicide and criminal intimidation based on a complaint from Mandri's colleague Ramesh Deshmukh, who was also sacked.The complaint said Mandri and 29 others were removed from their services and the depression of losing the job led Mandri to take the extreme step. Deshmukh told police that there were 94 employees working with the school for years and their working agreements would be renewed every three years. The wage agreement came to an end in 2000 and since then, the employees were raising the issue of renewal with the principal.Working as a cook for over 30 years with the residential school run by Bombay Education Society (BES), Mandri was reportedly fighting for just wages for all 94 employees. "Since there was no outcome, the employees issued a notice and went on indefinite strike in March 2016. The management decided to recruit new employees on temporary basis. The employees sought help from the labour department, which suggested that the strike be called off and hold talks with the administration. We joined back in August 2016," an employee said.Employees alleged Luke had not only handed over the settlement amount but also humiliated each employee. "We cannot describe how the principal humiliated us. We feel this is the reason that prompted Mandri to take the extreme step," the staffer said.On Wednesday, Nashik MP Hemant Godse caught hold of Luke in the latter's office and handed him over to the police. "The employees had approached me. After I mediated, they resumed work. However, the principal sacked them without any reason. My action today was a reaction to the suicide and the treatment meted out by the principal," he said.The school management, however, said the employees had registered a case with the labour court. "The service staff went on strike in March 2016 demanding unreasonable salary. After meetings, principal told them the management would take a decision. They didn't return and hence 29 were dismissed. Then, they registered cases against Luke with labour court, which upheld his stand. So, all 94 employees were dismissed last week by management," said management official.BES chairman Suresh Daniels said the management or the school was not responsible for the unfortunate incident. "We were ready to employ them back through the contractor, but it seems they were not ready for the same," he said.