http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3831806/No-no-no-Let-home-Final-words-Warriena-Wright-fell-death-accused-Tinder-killer-Gable-Tostee-s-14th-floor-apartment.html
111
11
A New Zealand tourist who fell to her death from a 14th floor Gold Coast apartment balcony said 'no, no, no' and begged to go home before Gable Tostee told her: 'I would, but you have been a bad girl'.

An audio recording of Warriena Wright's last words has been played in court at the murder trial for her Tinder date, 30-year-old Gable Tostee.

'You're lucky I haven't chucked you off my balcony, you goddamn psycho little b****,' Tostee told the 26-year-old woman, the audio reveals.

Tostee is not accused of throwing her to her death, but the Crown prosecutor alleges Tostee intimidated and threatened Ms Wright so greatly she felt the only way to escape was to climb down from his locked balcony.

Tostee has pleaded not guilty to her murder.

Scroll down for video

Gable Tostee, 30, is accused of the August 2014 murder of his Tinder date, New Zealand woman Warriena Wright, 26 (Tostee pictured arriving at court on Tuesday)

Three hours of audio from their date, recorded by Tostee, has played at the Brisbane Supreme Court over Monday afternoon and Tuesday morning

Three hours of audio from their August 2014 date, recorded by Tostee, has played at the Brisbane Supreme Court over Monday afternoon and Tuesday morning.

Earlier in the date, Tostee had asked Ms Wright if his penis was 'the biggest' as they continued drinking while the 26-year-old was slurring her words.

'I'll do what you want, sexually I'll be your slave,' Tostee told her, Ten News reported.

He continued: 'That's more than enough. You're not my kind of girl. You have to leave. You're f***ing insane.'

The pair appeared to fight throughout the evening.

Ms Wright, who appeared to be heavily intoxicated, had hit Tostee in the head with the clamp of a telescope earlier in the evening and thrown decorative pebbles at him.

The bag of rocks and parts of the telescope clamp were passed around to jurors on Tuesday, Courier Mail reported.

Tostee has pleaded not guilty to her murder. The Crown prosecution does not allege he threw her off his balcony, but alleges he intimidated her so greatly she felt climbing over was her only option

Tostee is accused of killing Warriena Tagpuno Wright in 2014 after they met on the dating app Tinder while she was visiting Australia for two weeks

An audio recording of Ms Wright and Tostee's Tinder date played in Brisbane Supreme Court on Monday afternoon and Tuesday morning

'You got something to say, say it?' Tostee said.

Ms Wright then called the 30-year-old 'sexist' through a muffled voice.

'You're lucky I haven't chucked you off my balcony you goddamn psycho little bitch.

'You think you can hit me and I'll just fall down, like in the movies? Let go, let go.'

Warriena's breathing sounded restricted, and gasping could be heard.

Tostee told her to 'let go', said she needed to leave without fetching her belongings.

'If you try to pull anything, I will knock you out … You are trying to kill me huh,' Tostee could be heard saying.

Her screams of 'no, no, no' could then be heard as Tostee told her: 'Who the fuck do you think you are?'

Tostee and his lawyer Nick Dore leave the Supreme Court during a break in Brisbane on Tuesday

Emily Ellis, a witness who lived two floors below Tostee, is pictured leaving court on Tuesday

Tostee has pleaded not guilty to the murder of 26-year-old Ms Wright in August 2014

Tostee and his lawyer, Mr Dore, leave Brisbane Supreme Court on the second day of his murder trial

'Just let me go home,' she said.

'I would, but you have been a bad girl,' Tostee replied.

The 30-year-old then allegedly locked Ms Wright on the balcony. Neighbours told the court they heard a loud thumping sound, believed to be the door being shut.

Ms Wright then attempted to climb down from the 14th floor balcony but fell to her death.

Tostee could then be heard swearing repeatedly and trying to find his keys.

He then left the Avalon Apartment building and phoned his father.

Their conversations were also recorded and played in court on Tuesday.

'She started getting really aggressive,' Tostee told his father. 'We had sex in bed. We were drinking. She kept beating me up and whatever.

'I forced her out on the balcony. I think she might have jumped off.

'I didn't cause this. I didn't push her off or anything.

'I, like, tackled her on my floor … I never forced her over my balcony. It's really f***ed up. I don't know what to do.

The court heard detailed audio on Monday of the pair arguing, as well as a photo reenactment of Ms Wright's last moments dangling from Tostee's balcony (pictured)

Disheveled sheets, rocks on the floor and a handheld video camera were found in the Gold Coast apartment (pictured) of Gable Tostee after Warriena Wright fell to her death from his balcony in 2014

Sheets on Tostee's bed were seen balled up and a pillow case appeared to be missing

He later told his father, 'the last thing I'd do is hurt a girl' as they tried phoning a lawyer.

Photographs from his apartment were shown to the jury on Monday.

The pictures show the apartment in disarray with what appear to be white rocks - the same the crown prosecutor alleged Ms Wright threw at Tostee, making him angry - scattered on a living room chair and across most of the carpeted floor.

Tostee could also be heard throughout the audio recording saying 'ouch' and appeared to yell out in pain.

A handheld video camera is on the edge of the glass coffee table and what appears to be a woman's black purse and a key are by the leg of the table.

Two black chairs sit in the corner of the balcony and a pair of white shoes are in the middle of the tiled floor, near a tanning bed.

A photo reenactment of Ms Wright's last moments dangling from Tostee's balcony was also shared with the jury.

Two black chairs sit in the corner of the balcony and a pair of white shoes are in the middle of the tiled floor, near a suntanning bed

Prosecutors claim Ms Wright threw decorative rocks at Tostee, which angered him

The image depicts a young woman's legs, from the waist down, hanging over the corner of the balcony's ledge.

The court heard Ms Wright saying she wanted to leave Tostee's apartment a number of times but the two continued to talk and drink.

'Are you going to f***ing Muay Thai me because I will f***ing destroy your jaw,' Ms Wright said.

'I should have never given you so much to drink,' Tostee said later.

Ms Wright threatened to call the police while Tostee accused her of beating him up for no reason.

Mr Cash said Tostee put Ms Wright out on the balcony after she threw some decorative rocks at him and hit him with a telescope.

Ms Wright's mother Beth broke down as the court heard how her daughter was allegedly choked as Tostee restrained her.

A jury containing seven women and six men was told neighbours heard Ms Wright crying 'no, no, no, please let me go home' before witnessing her falling from Tostee's balcony.

On Tuesday, Emily Ellis, who lived two floors down beneath Tostee, said she heard a loud commotion about 2am.

Ms Ellis said she heard a woman's voicing 'pleading' to go home.

When she moved towards the edge of the balcony, the neighbour looked up and saw a woman trying to climb over in 'quite a rushed fashion'.

Ms Wright again said 'I want to go home' as she appeared to hang from the railing before she plummeted to her death.

Merzabeth Tagpuno (centre), mother of Ms Wright, is seen leaving the Supreme Court in Brisbane after the first day of trial

Ms Wright's mother Merzabeth Tagpuno also arrived at the court on Monday for the start of the trial, which is expected to last seven to eight days

Gabriele Collyer-Wiedner, who lived in the unit directly below Tostee's, gasped before she 'screamed and ran away' when she saw a female officer playing the role of Ms Wright and hanging her legs from the balcony above her own.

She told the court on Monday she woke about 2am on August 8, 2014, to the sound of banging furniture.

GABLE TOSTEE TIMELINE July 29, 2014: Ms Wright arrives in Australia for two-week holiday. She meets Tostee on Tinder. August 8, 2014: Ms Wright found dead about 2.20am after falling from 14th floor balcony of Tostee's Surfers Paradise apartment. August 15, 2014: Tostee arrested at parent's house, charged with murder. October 10, 2016: Murder trial starts. Tostee represented by high-profile barrister Saul Holt QC.

She heard a woman screaming 'no, no, no' and looked out onto her balcony when she saw Ms Wright's legs.

'Legs came down and dangled in the air,' she said. 'I froze there, then the body fell on my balcony railing.

'I screamed and then somebody else screamed. I assumed it was her voice. I stepped forward and looked down and she was lying on the ground.'

She then called emergency services.

Ms Wright was on a two-week vacation to attend a friend's wedding in 2014 when she met Tostee at the end of her trip.

She was found dead at the base of the high-rise Avalon Apartments unit in Surfers Paradise in the early hours of August 8 after falling from the 14th floor balcony of Tostee's unit.

The 26-year-old was found dead at the base of the high-rise Avalon Apartments unit in Surfers Paradise in the early hours of August 8, 2014

Ms Wright was found dead at the base of the high-rise Avalon Apartments unit in Surfers Paradise in the early hours of August 8, 2014

In his opening address, defence barrister Saul Holt QC said Tostee was a real person, not a 'cartoonish villain' as the media often depicted.

Mr Holt said Ms Wright had become increasingly erratic and aggressive towards him after a night of drinking and intimacy.

After attempting to restrain her Tostee then put Ms Wright out on the balcony and locked the door, the court heard.

Mr Holt said Tostee did not choke Ms Wright but was within his legal right to use 'reasonable force' to protect himself and his property.

'She is outside, he is inside and he has caused a locked door to be between the two of them,' Mr Holt said.

'What happened in this case is nothing like murder or manslaughter, it doesn't fit.'

The trial before Justice John Byrne continues and is expected to take seven to eight days.

The 30-year-old's trial is due to start in the Brisbane Supreme Court on Monday when he will be represented by high-profile barrister Saul Holt QC