http://nation.com.pk/lahore/11-Oct-2016/shehbaz-wants-peace
111
11
LAHORE - Punjab Chief Minister Shehbaz Sharif has said that foolproof security arrangements have been made throughout the province for the protection of life and property of citizens on Youm-e-Ashur and the nefarious designs of the enemies of peace would be thwarted with the force of unity.



Through a statement, he directed Provincial Cabinet Committee on Law & Order that the security plan for Majalis and processions should be fully implemented and law-enforcement agencies should discharge their duties efficiently.

He said that a vigilant eye should be kept on anti-social elements and strict implementation of the code of conduct should be ensured.



Shehbaz Sharif further directed that indiscriminate action should be taken against those involved in delivering provocative speeches and publication and distribution of material based on religious hatred.

He said that members of peace committees and elected representatives should play a vigorous role for the promotion of religious harmony and utilise their all out energies for maintenance of religious brotherhood, restraint and tolerance.



The chief minister further directed that no effort should be spared for protection of life and property of people on Youm-e-Ashur.



He said that administrative and police officers should discharge their responsibilities diligently on the occasion of Youm-e-Ashur.

He said that present situation demand that all out resources should be utilised for maintenance of law and order while effective monitoring of security arrangements should be continued for ensuring a peaceful atmosphere.

He directed that patrolling system on Youm-e-Ashur should be improved and administrative and police officers should remain in the field for this purpose.



The chief minister directed that Commissioners, RPOs, DCOs and DPOs should personally supervise security measures in their respective areas.

He said that no negligence can be afforded in the existing situation and law-enforcement agencies should remain fully alert and utilise all available resources for maintaining a peaceful atmosphere.



He said that maintenance of religious harmony and brotherhood on Youm-e-Ashur is a collective responsibility as Islam gives the message of tolerance and restraint.

He said that Ulema and Mashaikh would have to play their due role for promoting sentiments of tolerance and harmony in the society.



He said that the whole nation would have to unite to make Pakistan a haven of peace and foil the nefarious designs of the enemy.

He said that the menace of sectarianism and terrorism would be rooted out with the force of national unity and solidarity.



CONDEMNED

Punjab Chief Minister Shehbaz Sharif strongly condemned the blast at a check post in southeastern province of Turkey and expressed deep sense of sorrow and grief over the loss of precious human lives including soldiers.



He sympathised with the bereaved families and prayed for the early recovery of the injured.

The Chief Minister said that people of Pakistan and Punjab equally share the grief of their Turk brethren and are standing by the government and people of Turkey in this hour of sorrow.



He said that terrorists have no religion and are worst enemy of humanity.

He said that terrorism is an international issue and collective efforts are needed to tackle this scourge.

