http://www.news.com.au/national/politics/labor-targets-attorneygeneral-george-brandis-with-urgency-motion-in-the-senate/news-story/84b0d61f08c14123e069d8f38e4127df?nk=7b60306d7ae90fb0a5d41663c63f93b4-1476197289
111
11
Video

Image Brandis denies misleading parliament 1:56 Attorney-General George Brandis has rejected claims he misled parliament amid a high-level legal dispute.

Danielle Le Messurier, with AAP News Corp Australia Network

LIBERAL-National Party Senator Ian Macdonald says Labor has politicised the bitter feud between the Attorney-General and Solicitor-General due to an “insatiable” desire to get rid of George Brandis.

During a motion of urgency moved by Labor this afternoon, Senator Macdonald said he could understand why Labor was trying to dethrone the Attorney-General.

“In Senator Brandis the Government has a leader of the government in the Senate who is up to any challenge, whose knowledge of the law of the Senate and of the politics is such that the Labor Party and the Greens can never lay a glove on him — as much as they keep trying to attack him,” he said.

Senator Brandis has been slammed by Labor over allegations he failed to consult Mr Gleeson over a controversial new directive ruling that no-one in government, including the prime minister, could seek his (the Solicitor-General’s) advice without first obtaining written permission.

“Regrettably, this inquiry and the politicisation of the Solicitor-General stems from the Labor Party’s insatiable, almost manic desire to get rid of Senator Brandis,” Senator Macdonald said.

“Why politicise the role of the Solicitor-General by bringing this debate today, wasting all of question time on the same thing, setting up this dodgy political Senate inquiry simply to politicise these matters?

“Bring the notice of disallowance, argue on the fact — not on politicising the role of the solicitor-general.”

“IT’S NOT TINDER”: GREENS

Labor lashed out at Senator Brandis during the urgency motion while the Greens claimed he “shopped around” for legal advice.

Tasmanian Greens Senator Nick McKim said the Attorney-General had been shopping around for legal advice because he didn’t like the advice he was given from the solicitor-general.

“What the attorney general has done is ignored the solicitor-general ... particularly around citizenship and same-sex marriage, two extremely important pieces of legislation,” Senator McKim said.

“It’s not Tinder, it’s seeking incredibly important legal advice.”

Senator Brandis and Solicitor-General Justin Gleeson will front a legal and constitutional affairs committee public hearing in Canberra on Friday morning.

The urgency motion was instigated by manager of opposition business in the upper house, Katy Gallagher.

In a letter to the President of the Senate, Stephen Parry, Senator Gallagher said Senator Brandis had “failed to uphold the standards expected of the First Law Officer of the Commonwealth” by “undermining public confidence within legal administration within the government”.

Dutin

Labor used parliament’s question time to ramp up its attack on Senator Brandis over his stoush with the solicitor-general.

The minister maintained he and Mr Gleeson clearly had a difference of opinion as to whether or not discussions between them constituted consultation.

“He has one view, I have another,” Senator Brandis said.

Penny Wong, leader of the opposition in the Senate, called on Senator Brandis to resign.

She accused him of trying to shut down the solicitor-general as a source of independent advice while trying to deceive parliament into thinking Mr Gleeson was on board with the changes.

“He sought to achieve this through underhanded conduct,” she told parliament.

“He tried to sneak the direction through just before parliament was dissolved.”

LAW OFFICERS AT WAR

The bitter feud between the two law officers has waged ever since Mr Gleeson told a Senate inquiry he had not been consulted on significant changes to the government’s laws to strip citizenship from terror suspects and not at all on a marriage equality proposal in November.

Speaking at a doorstop this morning, Labor’s shadow attorney-general Mark Dreyfus again called on Senator Brandis to resign, saying he had mislead parliament more than once.

Mr Dreyfus said Senator Brandis had stated in a formal document tabled in Parliament that he had consulted Mr Gleeson about the making of the Legal Services Direction, which he claimed was untrue.

“How you can say you have consulted someone about a new law, about a new procedure when you haven’t told them anything about it is beyond me. And that’s the problem that Senator Brandis has,” he said.

“The second example of misleading the Parliament is even more serious ... Senator Brandis has misrepresented the effect of advice given by the Solicitor-General on the citizenship bill that was considered by the Parliament last year,” Mr Dreyfus said.

“What is absolutely clear is that the Attorney-General should resign. Misleading Parliament is an offence that carries a very direct, clear and long established consequence, which is that the relevant minister should resign.”

In the event Senator Brandis didn’t resign, Mr Dreyfus said it was Mr Turnbull’s responsibility to dismiss him from office.

Senator Brandis said there was no need for him to step down, insisting the solicitor-general had been consulted during an hour-long meeting at his Canberra office on November 30