http://www.vanguardngr.com/2016/09/professor-condemns-state-education-nigeria/
111
11
*…as he calls for the scraping of OND

By LAIDE AKINBOADE-ORIERE

Abuja – A former Executive Secretary of National Commission for Colleges of Education, NCCE, Professor Peter Lassa, on Monday, condemned the state of education in Nigeria.

He stated this in Abuja while briefing journalists; he said it is imperative for all hands to be on desk in order to address the challenges being faced in the education sector.

He said, in cases where children sit on the floor or receiving classes in a makeshift classroom or receive classes under the three, in some parts of the country, was unacceptable.

According to him, “It is worrisome that Nigeria has become a country that has the largest population of out of school children in the world. It is being reported in several international and national educational reports that approximately 10 million of Nigerian children are out of school. We as a country has not been able to implement the policy initiative to drive the implementation of the educational system.

“Those that are in school the statistics show only 64% complete primary school in 2012 and that only 43% continue into JSS1. The situation is worse 72% of primary schools age never attended school. These and other indicators are sufficient reasons to worry about the state of primary education.

In majority of primary schools particularly in rural areas, they do not have buildings. Children are sitting under the trees or open space .Even in townships where they have so called classrooms, there is no water talkless of toilets”.

He said the solution to these challenges is for the three tiers of governments to join hand together to develop necessary infrastructure.

The Professor of Mathematics said there is need for the federal government to scrap Ordinary National Diploma, OND, because it is not in National policy on Education.

“Here is a law to scrap the so called OND, in the nation. OND is strange to our national policy on Education (2004). Every Tom, Dick and Harry seems to offer course with no set national standard. The OND is offered under varying circumstances and time of study. It is lowering educational standard. Those wishing to offer such courses should use certificate in Computer, in social work, in plumbing, in cooking etc.

The federal government circular of 2000 prohibiting the use of OND for employments should be enforced. Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board, JAMB, should not use OND for admission into universities”.

He said in order to develop the education sector in the country, Academic Staff Union of Universities, ASUU, must its industrial actions.