http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/shweta-nanda-navya-naveli-open-letter-media-perverse-profiteers/1/784610.html
111
11
Navya Naveli Nanda is quite the sensation among the online generation, who have seen her pictures flashed on multiple platforms with captions ranging from 'hot pictures of Navya in swimsuit' to 'Navya seen partying wild with friends'. Having a pretty face apart from being Amitabh Bachchan's granddaughter means she gets more than her fair share of attention.

ALSO SEE: Navya Naveli aces the nerd look while partying with friends

ALSO READ: Amitabh Bachchan's letter to Navya and Aaradhya is a must-read

In an emotional letter, Shweta Nanda has demanded media personnels especially those who run gossip websites lay off her daughter Navya, and not invade her privacy. Here are excerpts of the letter which she wrote for a leading daily publication:

"She is a teenager, and as most young teens are wont to do, she likes to dress up, hang out with her friends, pose for pictures and yes, go out to parties (she has a deadline and is always home well before it is over). If she finds herself on a beach, she will wear beach-appropriate attire - namely, a swimsuit - as would any young girl anywhere."

"Websites with a keen interest in Bollywood and its goings-on, make fake identities (mostly in the names of her friends) and send requests to anyone following her and often to her as well. They then plunder the accounts of her friends and use their photos to post on their websites captioning them irresponsibly and disrespectfully, most of them stop short of objectifying and shaming her."

"She doesn't have any particular interest in acting or pursuing a career in acting as of now. She is generous and kind and bright, but these attributes don't make fetching headlines! Do the adults who run these sites even know how invasive and inappropriate what they are doing, is? Do they even care? And would they like it if this happened to their children?"

"You can well imagine what it would do to the self-esteem of a young, impressionable girl, who hasn't asked to be thrust into the spotlight in this way. She is somebody's child, a most treasured and beloved child. As a parent, I sit helpless. Unable to plug the flow of this filth that is distributed in the name of information and journalism, and all in the pursuit of hits and likes, leading to some kind of monetisation. In effect, they profit off pictures stolen from my daughter's life. If there is rock- bottom, this would be it."

"I had decided that I was not going to fight this, I was going to let it be. She doesn't have to hide, she isn't doing anything wrong. Her parents and her family are absolutely okay with what she wears and does."



Hopefully, the letter will fall on ears open to criticism, and will mend their ways in the future when they use private information pictures in the name of journalism.

