https://au.news.yahoo.com/world/a/32791689/indonesian-man-jailed-over-terror-plots/
10
1
An Indonesian man has been jailed for six years over several failed IS-backed terror plots.

An Indonesian man has been jailed for six years over failed Islamic State-backed terror plots to attack foreigners and the Jakarta governor.

Arif Hidayatullah, 31, was arrested in December last year for planning to launch various strikes across Indonesia at the behest of his former schoolmate, IS militant Bahrum Naim in Syria.

Described by experts as an IS fighter trying to gain supremacy in Indonesia, Bahrun has been behind several plots in the archipelago over the past 12 months, including a foiled rocket attack on Singapore from neighbouring Batam Island.

Police allege Bahrun transferred more than 13.5 million rupiah ($A1300) to Arif with the instruction he carry out acts of "ightiyalat", or assassinations.

The three targets were Jakarta's governor Basuki Tjahaja Purnama, known as Ahok, high-ranking police officers and foreigners.

Using the online messaging service Telegram, Bahrun instructed Arif in September 2015 to make small explosives to "throw" at Ahok the following month in Jakarta.

The plan was cancelled, however, because the bombs weren't ready.

The following month, Bahrun sent another message to Arif to throw explosives at a site affiliated to a Jewish group in Bogor, south of Jakarta, with a further attack on a Shi'ite mosque in the same area in December last year.

Arif bought five litres of hydrogen peroxide and two litres of acetone, but was arrested before he could carry out the attack.

The prosecution called for an eight-year sentence but on Monday, Judge Siti Djamzanah sentenced him to six years, saying he was young and had not been in trouble before.

According to a recent report by the Institute for Policy Analysis of Conflict, Bahrun, who left for Syria in January 2015, has stayed in touch with his friends from Solo, Central Java, a known hotbed of extremism activity.

He has tried to set up a division for explosives and electronics, providing instructions on bomb making, money laundering and making online purchases using stolen credit card numbers.

In June, teenager Ibadurrahman was jailed over failed plans to attack a police post, a church in Solo and a Buddhist temple on Indonesia's Independence Day on August 17, 2015 at the behest of Bahrun.