http://newsday.co.tt/crime_and_court/0,234420.html
112
11
A d v e r t i s e m e n t

Wife forgives Sheron, beating case dropped

By STACY MOORE Tuesday, October 11 2016

CENTRAL auto and real estate businessman, Sheron Sukhdeo, who was charged with beating his wife eight months ago, yesterday walked out the Chaguanas Magistrates’ Court free after the charges against him were dropped. Sheron and his wife Rachel Sukhdeo, walked out of the court house side by side following the hearing.

The decision to dismiss the case was yesterday announced by senior Magistrate Joanne Connor in the Chaguanas First Magistrate’s Court after Sukhdeo (Rachael) indicated to the court that she no longer wished to proceed with the matter against her husband.



Sukhdeo was called by court prosecutor Sgt Ken Ali to enter into the witness box to give evidence.



In questioning Sukhdeo, the prosecutor asked her if she was threatened, offered any rewards or inducements for her decision to forgo the charges against her husband. Sukhdeo replied in the negative. Ali then explained to Sukhdeo that when the matter was dismissed, she could no longer proceed with the case before the court. Sukhdeo indicated that she was aware of such repercussions, and further revealed that she and husband had “reconciled and were working out things”. Sukhdeo also told the court that she had also forgiven her husband and she no longer wanted to proceed with the matter.



The magistrate then inquired from Sukhdeo whether she was seeking counselling services.



In her response, Sukhdeo said that she and her husband were both attending counselling sessions. Sheron, 31, the managing director of Sheron’s Auto and Real Estate, had pleaded not guilty to the charges of maliciously assaulting his wife on February 10.



A second charge also alleged that on February 11 Sheron assaulted his wife by occasioning actual bodily harm on her. He was granted bail in the sum of $85,000.



Charges were laid against the businessman after his wife posted photographs via Facebook showing marks of violence on her face, chest and legs. Yesterday, police officer, Alicia Charles, who laid the charges against Sheron, was also called to the witness box. In giving her evidence, Charles said that without the evidence of Sukhdeo (the virtual complainant), the police would not be able to continue with the matter. Sheron’s attorney, Taradath Singh, was also called upon by the magistrate to question Sukhdeo, but he declined stating that he was grateful for the outcome. The case was then dismissed.







