http://www.themalaymailonline.com/malaysia/article/dont-jump-the-gun-before-final-decision-on-hospitality-tax-nazri-tells-saba
110
11
Don’t jump the gun before final decision on hospitality tax, Nazri tells Sabah minister

Datuk Seri Nazri Aziz (pic) took issue with Datuk Masidi Manjun’s assertion that he was the one who had proposed the imposition of a levy on hotels, and called the Sabah politician 'naive' to suggest so. ― Picture by Choo Choy MayKUALA LUMPUR, Sept 7 — Sabah Tourism, Culture and Environment Minister Datuk Masidi Manjun should not jump to conclusions and assume that a final decision has already been made on a hospitality levy, Datuk Seri Nazri Aziz said today.



The federal Tourism Minister pointed out that the federal government is in the process of discussing the matter with relevant stakeholders, and that even if a decision to impose a hospitality tax is made, it is well within Putrajaya’s rights to do so.



“There is no firm decision just yet, so I hope the minister doesn’t jump the gun, please don’t get too excited. It has always been the policy of the federal government to engage with relevant stakeholders,” Nazri told Malay Mail Online when contacted.



“Even if we decide later on imposing the levy, it’s not taking away the state’s power, not even devolution because we are not doing this outside the constitutional requirement.



“Even if we decide to impose levy on Sabah hotels, we can do it, tourism falls under federal (jurisdiction),” Nazri added.



Nazri also took issue with Masidi’s assertion that he was the one who had proposed the imposition of a levy on hotels, and called the Sabah politician “naive” to suggest so.



“This is naive on the part of the Sabah minister to say the proposal came from me.



“When it comes to collecting money from the public, it is a Cabinet decision, not [the] decision of one minister,” the Padang Rengas MP said.



Yesterday, Masidi said the proposed imposition of a hospitality levy would not be favourable during the current economic situation, particularly in Sabah.



National news agency Bernama quoted him as saying that there was no need to impose more charges on hospitality services.



Masidi also urged the federal government to engage with tourism industry players in meaningful discussions before coming up with any decision.



