http://www.vanguardngr.com/2016/09/mother-five-docked-constant-husband-beating/
110
11
A 38-year-old mother of five, Fausat Salaudeen, was, yesterday, arraigned before an Ikeja Magistrate’s Court, Lagos, for allegedly beating and tearing her husband’s clothes.

Fausat, a resident of Agege Area of Lagos, is being tried for breach of peace and assault, to which she pleaded not guilty.

The magistrate, Mr. A. Adesanya, granted bail to the accused in the sum of N20,000 with one surety in like sum.

Adesanya remanded her in prison custody pending the perfection of her bail conditions.

Prosecutor George Nwosu said that the accused committed the offence on September 4 at her residence.

… bureau de change operator for N5.7m fraud

Meanwhile, a 41-year-old member of staff of High Flyer Bureau de Change, Ikeja, Omen Samuel, was, yesterday, arraigned before an Ikeja Chief Magistrate’s Court, Lagos, for allegedly obtaining N5.7 million under false pretext.

The prosecutor, Sergeant Donor Perezi, told the court that the offence was committed between October 7 and October 12, 2015 at Muritala Muhammed International Airport, Ikeja.

Perezi said the complainant, Clement Ebere, paid N5,730,000 into Samuel’s account to help him send it to his business partner in China.

Samuel was charged with conspiracy, obtaining by false pretext and stealing.

The prosecutor said that the complainant wanted the accused to convert the money to dollars and remit it to his business partner in China.

He said the accused converted the money to his personal use, adding that the offences contravened sections 285, 312 and 409 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2011.

Samuel pleaded not guilty to the offences.

The Chief Magistrate, Mrs O. Layinka, admitted the accused to bail in the sum of one million naira, with two sureties in like sum.

She adjourned the case till November 8 for mention.

Police tired of husband-beater case

On the case of Fausat, who beat her husband, Nwosu, prosecutor, said the accused assaulted her husband, Mustapha, by beating and tearing his clothes into shreds, an act which the accused had been doing from inception of their marriage.

He said: “The accused always fights the complainant on any trivial issue. Any time they have disagreement, the accused is always the first to hit him.

“The complainant had, on many occasions, had her arrested by the police, but when the police got tired of the case, they transferred it to welfare; still the accused refused to change.”