http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3832142/Boarding-school-principal-presided-culture-cheating-gave-ahead-pupils-unlimited-time-finish-GCSE-assessments.html
112
11
A boarding school headmaster presided over a culture of cheating and allowed pupils to have unlimited time to finish GCSE assessments, a tribunal has heard.

Jonathan Taylor, who became the principal of Wymondham College in Norfolk two years ago, has been accused of giving teachers the ‘go ahead’ to bend the rules.

The former acting head of IT, Arshad Ali, described a ‘policy’ of cheating in the department and an unethical culture at the school that came ‘right from the top’.

Allegations: Jonathan Taylor, who became the principal of Wymondham College in Norfolk two years ago, has been accused of giving teachers the ‘go ahead’ to bend the rules

Mr Ali secretly recorded conversations with students talking about cheating, but his covert actions were condemned by the school’s legal team at the tribunal.

According to a report by journalist Camilla Turner in the Daily Telegraph, Mr Ali told the hearing that he first raised the issue with his colleague Sydney Payne last year.

Mr Payne told the then IT head Kim Williams that teachers were letting students have double the amount of time for an internal GCSE coursework assessment.

Mr Ali said she told them to ‘disregard the 40-hour limit on controlled assessment work’, adding: ‘This was clearly in breach of examination rules and cheating.’

He told how he confronted Ms Williams about it again a few months later, but her response - which he covertly recorded - claimed Mr Taylor had cleared the idea.

Mr Ali also told how he learned from students that teachers were handing back marked assessments for improvements, which he said was breaching exam rules.

Performing well: Wymondham College’s website states that its recent results at GCSE and A-level confirm that it is as one of the ‘very highest achieving state schools nationally’

However, Ed Kemp, acting for the school, criticised Mr Ali for a ‘serious breach of trust’ by recording students’ conversations - and said the pupils were ‘joking’.

In a statement, Mr Taylor said: ‘We vigorously deny the allegations and are confident that the tribunal will find in our favour.

‘We ensure that the examination and other assessed work is invigilated and marked to the highest standards, and in accordance with the examination board guidance.

‘We are extremely proud of the hard work of our students and of the academic accomplishments they justifiably achieve.’

Wymondham College’s website states that its recent results at GCSE and A-level confirm that it is as one of the ‘very highest achieving state schools nationally’.