http://m.themalaymailonline.com/malaysia/article/guan-engs-aide-lodges-report-against-jamal
111
11
Guan Eng’s aide lodges report against Jamal

Share this article

Major Zaidi Ahmad (centre) lodged a police report against Jamal for alleged criminal defamation in George Town October 11, 2016. — Pictures by Opalyn MokGEORGE TOWN, Oct 11 — Lim Guan Eng’s information officer lodged a police report today after Datuk Jamal Md Yunos accused the Penang chief minister of creating a fake Facebook account impersonating the Red Shirts leader.

Major Zaidi Ahmad read out Jamal’s Facebook post that said: “Dajjal oh Dajjal. Ini mesti LGE DAP Ketua Menteri p pinang yang mengupah budak2nya memalsukan Akaun FB saya. Nampak sangat BERSIH DAH JADI DAJJAL...ini Akaun FB saya yg sebenarnya”. [Translated: Liar oh liar. This must be LGE DAP Penang chief minister who hired his people to falsify my FB account. It’s so clear that Bersih is now a liar...this is my real FB account].

“The Penang chief minister did not do such things. He did not falsify any Facebook account to smear Jamal [sic], in fact, he did not even comment on the controversial post uploaded on the alleged fake Facebook account,” Zaidi told reporters outside the Northeast District police headquarters this morning.

He said the posting by Jamal was accompanied by a screenshot of a Facebook status by a “Rafi Awg Kechik” who said there are several false FB accounts under Jamal’s name that were created with the purpose of confusing netizens and to also incite the authorities.

The status went on to say the controversial status uploaded on another Facebook account under Jamal’s name was false and created by those who are “anti Jamal”.

The controversial Facebook account in question, which was under the name of Dato Jamal Yunos, had posted a status promising a repeat of the May 13 race riots and that machetes will fly if Bersih 5 continues as planned on November 19.

The post was put up on September 21 at about 8.10pm.

Screenshots of the Facebook status accusing Lim of instructing others to falsify Jamal’s Facebook account.

Zaidi said Jamal’s post accusing Lim of falsifying his Facebook account and posting such a controversial status amounted to criminal defamation.

“The status posted on September 21 with threats of May 13 and flying machetes was clearly the individual’s threat to create disharmony among the races by playing racial sentiments,” he said.

He claimed Jamal’s allegations that Lim had created a false account to post such a controversial statement was clearly inciting the people against Lim.

Zaidi added that it had also tarnished Lim’s image and credibility as the Penang chief minister, a MP, a state assemblyman and a DAP leader.

“I hope the police will act immediately against the person responsible for his serious false accusations against Lim,” he said.

He pointed out that the controversial status on May 13 was posted on September 21 and yet it, Jamal had only denied he had posted it after 18 days on October 9.