http://www.iol.co.za/capetimes/violent-student-protests-act-of-criminality-2065207
111
11
MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison Mxolisi Kaunda said he “detested and condemned all acts of violence, vandalism, destruction of private and public property, including at all institutions of learning”.

DURBAN: “An act of criminality” was how local government yesterday described the surge of violent protests at the University of KwaZulu-Natal.

“We view such vandalism as an act of criminality and expect the law enforcement agencies to work around the clock to ensure all those responsible for such diabolically deeds are brought to book and face the full might of the law,” said the MEC’s spokesperson, Sipho Khumalo.

“Local government felt the issues should be resolved through dialogue and that all avenues for peaceful resolutions of the conflict should be explored and utilised to the fullest.

“We urge the institutions of learning concerned to immediately embark on talks with students and work with their own security and the law enforcement agencies to tighten security. In the meantime, law enforcement agencies have been engaged and instructed to keep a close eye on these and other related matters.”

UKZN spokesperson Lesiba Seshoka said yesterday the university would bring forward its recess period to limit academic disruptions.

“In light of the ongoing student protest action, management has taken a decision to bring forward the September recess period. The university will be closed from today (Wednesday) until September 19, 2016.”

Seshoka said that the programme would resume on September 20.

Premier Willies Mchunu, addressing captains of industry during the KZN Coalition Breakfast in Durban yesterday, said: “We strongly deplore any kind of destruction of property, especially in tertiary institutions as we have witnessed at UKZN.

“Our country has gone a long way down the path of safety and security, and we are determined to prevent any attempts to derail the strides taken thus far in pursuit of peace and security in our province.”

At the Westville campus, a large auditorium was set alight at around 11.30pm on Monday. It took the university’s Risk Management Services (RMS) and the fire department almost four hours to quell the blaze, university spokesperson Lesiba Seshoka said.

“Students also torched six vehicles and pelted stones at the RMS control room. Some suspects were apprehended by RMS and are now in police custody.”

Central Student Representative Council (SRC) president Senzo Ngidi said he was among those detained at the RMS offices. A group of students, he said, were taken from their residences during the night and no reasons given as to why.

“I was detained for trying to find out where they were sent.”

On Howard College and Pietermaritzburg campuses, small groups of students burnt furniture and pelted security officials with stones. At mid-morning there was a heavy police presence on Westville campus and reports of sporadic “flare-ups”.

A security hut was apparently upturned.

Last week, Cape Times sister paper The Mercury reported on warnings from students that the unrest at the university, which is now in its third week, was only just beginning.

This comes after a coffee shop on Howard College campus was torched, dustbins on Westville campus were burnt and an examination hall on Pietermaritzburg campus was set ablaze.

The students’ grievances concern the looming fee hikes, applications for the National Student Financial Aid Scheme, registration and the composition of the university’s executive management committee.

Speaking on violent protests in general, Lizette Lancaster, of the Institute for Security Studies, said the main crux of the issue was that many felt the authorities listened only when they resorted to violence.

“In most instances violence is the last resort after a long period of frustration,” she said. “Some people resort to violence if their expectations are not met and they feel that all avenues for communication has been exhausted.”

UKZN last week obtained a high court interdict protecting it against unlawful protests, disruptive gatherings, demonstrations, mass action, intimidation and other violent acts to persons or property at the entrances and premises of the university’s campuses, and the SRC has been invited to make submissions at a council sitting later this month.