http://www.politico.com/tipsheets/morning-money/2016/10/more-clinton-tax-plan-details-216784
112
11
More Clinton tax plan details

NEW THIS A.M.: MORE CLINTON TAX PLAN DETAILS — Hillary Clinton’s campaign early Tuesday released some new details on her tax proposals. Per release: “Clinton is announcing today a new expansion of the Child Tax Credit for families with young children. She will double the Child Tax Credit to a maximum of $2,000 per child up to and including age 4, and she’ll expand access to millions more families.

“As many as 15 million young children will be eligible for the credit of up to $2,000 — and millions more people will benefit from additional relief … Clinton will lower the threshold for refundability from $3,000 to the first dollar of earnings for families with children of all ages, so every working family can benefit … Clinton’s plan will be fully paid for by her proposals to ensure the wealthy, Wall Street, and big corporations pay their fair share. And like the current Child Tax Credit, it will phase out for higher-income families.”

Story Continued Below

A NOTE ON BREXIT — In the face of crashing polls, Donald Trump has taken to telling voters he will shock the world like Britain did over the summer. “This is Brexit, folks,” he says. The problem is Trump is down six and falling. And according to the polling average maintained by the FT, the Brexit vote was close to deadlocked at the end.

PODESTA FEARED ANGERING WARREN — POLITICO’s Zachary Warbrodt: “At one point last year, Hillary Clinton was ‘leaning toward’ endorsing a reinstatement of the Depression-era Glass-Steagall Act that separated commercial and investment banking, according to an alleged campaign email exchange in the latest batch of John Podesta's emails released by WikiLeaks.

“The email string, which has not been verified by the Clinton campaign, provides a rare glimpse into the internal debate among top Clinton aides before the release of her Wall Street regulation plan in October 2015. The conversation underlines the looming presence of Sen. Elizabeth Warren” Read more.

CLINTON EMAILS SIDE NOTE — While the Clinton campaign has declined to confirm the veracity of the emails, on the Goldman Sachs speeches at least, the excerpts included in Podesta's email are in fact accurate.

WHY TRUMP LOST THE DEBATE — Pimco’s Libby Cantrill: “While Trump may now be off life support, his debate performance is unlikely to achieve what it needed to do: Broaden his appeal and convince the higher-than-usual proportion of undecided voters this election to support him. There was plenty of red meat for his base, … But those personal attacks are unlikely to draw-in the needed swing voters, especially undecided women.” Read more.

LABOR FORCE FINALLY GROWING — Pantheon’s Ian Shepherdson: “The single most startling development in the labor market data in recent months is acceleration in labor force growth. The participation rate has risen only marginally, because employment has continued to climb too, but the absolute size of the labor force is now expanding at its fastest pace in nine years, up 1.9 percent in the year to September.

“We should be clear here that the upturn in labor force growth has not yet been sustained for long enough for us to be sure that the underlying trend is moving. These numbers are very erratic … and we need to see more data … If the shift is real, it probably reflects a combination of employers being forced to cast the net wider in search of qualified — or at least trainable — staff, as the pool of available labor dries up, and individuals increasingly recognizing that more jobs are available, making it worth the effort to look”

SANDBERG MET WITH CLINTON — Daily Caller’s Peter Hasson: “Facebook Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg shared research with key members of the Clinton campaign, newly released emails show. Sandberg has endorsed Clinton, and just last month Politico reported that Clinton may tap Sandberg for Treasury secretary if elected.

“Clinton aide Cheryl Mills set up a meeting in March, 2015 for Sandberg to share research with members of Hillary Clinton’s inner circle, including chief campaign strategist Joel Benenson and campaign manager John Podesta.” Read more.

BUFFETT BLASTS TRUMP — POLITICO’s Toby Eckert: “Billionaire investor Warren Buffett hit back at Donald Trump Monday for claiming Buffett took ‘a massive tax deduction,’ saying his deductions totaled $5.47 million in 1995, including $3.46 million in charitable contributions, on adjusted gross income of $11.6 million.

“In a statement, Buffett also slammed Trump’s excuse for not releasing his own income tax returns: that he is being audited by the IRS. ‘ … I have been audited by the IRS multiple times and am currently being audited,’ Buffett said. ‘I have no problem in releasing my tax information while under audit. Neither would Mr. Trump — at least he would have no legal problem … Buffett said he made a whopping $2.858 billion in charitable contributions in 1995, ‘of which $2.85 billion were not taken as deductions and never will be.’” Read more.

YEAH ABOUT THOSE INNER CITIES — Via Redfin chief economist Nela Richardson: “Trump said the situation in our inner cities is a disaster multiple times during the debate. But the housing data doesn't match up. The median price per square foot of homes sold in the inner cities has jumped 52 percent over the last six years, outpacing price growth in the surrounding metro areas by 18 percentage points.

“Of the 31 cities we looked at, Chicago, Houston and Miami were the only inner cities where price growth fell behind that of the surrounding metro area. The full analysis is here.

GOOD TUESDAY MORNING — Even this die hard Yankee fan was sorry to see Big Papi call it a career last night. One of the greatest of all time. Email me on bwhite@politico.com and follow me on Twitter @morningmoneyben. And email Andrew Hanna on ahanna@politico.com and follow him on Twitter @andrewbhanna.

DRIVING THE DAY — President Obama travels to Greensboro, North Carolina where he will participate in a student forum hosted by ESPN at North Carolina A&T State University … Obama will then appear at a campaign event for Hillary Clinton … Trump campaigns in Panama City and Ocala, Florida … Clinton campaigns with Al Gore in Miami.

THIS MORNING ON POLITICO PRO FINANCIAL SERVICES – Victoria Guida on what banks' latest living wills reveal — and to get Morning Money every day before 6 a.m. — please contact Pro Services at (703) 341-4600 or info@politicopro.com.

RYAN CUTS TRUMP LOOSE (SORT OF) — POLITICO's Jake Sherman and John Bresnahan on House Speaker Paul Ryan saying he won’t defend or campaign with Trump, though he stopped short of rescinding his endorsement: “The message amounted to a concession by the highest-ranking elected Republican that his nominee for president can't win.

“ … [Ryan's] move carries immense risk, and Ryan faced blowback from all sides: Trump and his surrogates warned Republican leaders they would pay a price for breaking from the nominee." Read more.

TRUMP FACES POLLING ABYSS — POLITICO’s Steven Shepard: “Trump trailed Hillary Clinton on average by about five points prior to the leaked video of his sexually aggressive comments. Now, according to a new NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll out on Monday, he trails by 14. It might not matter either way: No candidate in the modern era of polling has ever climbed back from more than four points behind over the final month of the campaign to win the presidency.

“That is the reality Republicans are confronting as the party grapples with how to handle an embattled but defiant nominee who many fear could drag down the rest of the GOP ticket with him. Ronald Reagan was the last presidential nominee who managed a final-month comeback. But in 1980, when he surged past then-President Jimmy Carter, he was only facing a four-point deficit in October” Read more.

** A message from JPMorgan Chase & Co.: How far a child can go is directly impacted by the neighborhood they come from, according to the Opportunity Index. That’s why JPMorgan Chase is giving more than $3.5 million each to nonprofits that are devoted to revitalizing and inspiring their communities in Detroit, Atlanta, Chicago, Miami, and New York. Learn more about our 5-year, $125 million PRO Neighborhoods initiative **

BIG WAVE AHEAD? — WP’s Kelsey Snell and Karoun Demirjian: “Top Democratic strategists are moving to capitalize on the extraordinary events of the last several days, now believing they have a real shot of retaking the House majority after a slew of Republican lawmakers renounced their support of Donald Trump …

“Democrats are working quickly to ensure that no Republican lawmaker who has ever expressed support for their party’s presidential nominee can easily separate themselves from Trump following his 2005 comments about groping and kissing women in unwanted advances. And they’re doing so with new television ads targeting Republicans such as Mike Gallagher, the Republican running to replace Rep. Reid Ribble (R) in Wisconsin’s Eighth District” Read more.

COULD TRUMP CRASH COST CLINTON? — Reuters: “Hillary Clinton's campaign is confronting an emerging risk to her presidential ambitions - if Donald Trump continues to trail her in opinion polls many Democrats may simply stay at home on Election Day. Without enough popular support, Clinton would enter the White House lacking the political capital she would need to drive through her agenda. In the worst-case scenario it could cost her the presidency if Republicans turn out in big numbers on Nov. 8.

“Clinton, the Democratic nominee, has spent much of her campaign sounding the alarm over the prospect of a President Trump. She has struggled to lay out a compelling vision for her presidency and has failed to excite key constituencies, including millennials, minority voters and liberal Democrats. Opinion polls show that many voters are backing Clinton primarily to stop Trump, the Republican nominee, from getting into the White House. If they believe he has no hope of winning, then what would their motivation be to turn up at the polls?” Read more.

PAY DAY LENDING RIVALS SWAMP CFPB — WSJ’s Yuka Hayashi, Rachel Witkowski and Gabriel T. Rubin: “The Obama administration’s crackdown on payday lending to low-income borrowers has generated unusually heavy public feedback, stoked by computer-generated comments and the escalating ideological battle over consumer financial issues. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has received about a million public comments on rules governing payday lenders since issuing the proposal in June …

“That figure is the highest in the agency’s five-year history, far exceeding the 50,000 received on a May proposal restricting mandatory arbitration agreements and giving consumers more power to sue financial firms. Advocates say the use of software that prewrites comments for people to submit electronically has helped fuel the outcry.” Read more.

STOCK SHOCKS AHEAD? — Bloomberg: “U.S. and European equities are in for a bumpy ride into the end of the year. That’s the message from Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which says that political risks, exacerbated by a weak economy in Europe and high stock prices in the U.S., make those markets vulnerable to declines in the next three months. The firm projects that the S&P 500 Index and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index will each drop by about 2 percent by December.” Read more.

CRISIS MANAGEMENT — Via HPS: “Given the number of corporate and political crises that we have seen in recent weeks, HPS thought it would be helpful to put together a basic white paper on how to approach these issues. As we have seen, not all crises are created equal, but that doesn't mean you can't prepare.” Read more.

SO THAT’S IT? — Parts of Hillary Clinton’s Wall Street speeches released by WikiLeaks don’t seem to be having the effect Julian Assange envisioned. The progressive response to the transcript excerpts has been muted, partially due to the headline grabbing stories about the Republican party implosion over Trump’s vulgar comments about women.

But the excerpts themselves hardly disqualify her among left-leaning progressives. Jeff Hauser, Executive Director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research’s Revolving Door Project, dismissed the leaks as inconsequential: “She gave a speech in the most pro-business setting imaginable, and this is the most damaging thing?”

MORE EMAILS! — POLITICO Live Blog covers the latest WikiLeaks document dump: “WikiLeaks on Monday released a second alleged batch of Hillary Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta's private emails.

“The new messages, which cover a period from September 2007 to March 2016, appeared online three days after the first tranche of messages, and the morning after the second presidential debate.” Read more.

WELLS RESHUFFLES THE DECK — NYT’s Stacy Cowley: “Wells Fargo, under fire from all sides because of a long-running scandal in which employees set up illegal accounts to meet sales quotas, announced a restructuring of its top management on Monday, solidifying the leadership structure beneath Timothy J. Sloan, who is widely expected to succeed John G. Stumpf, the bank’s embattled chairman and chief executive.

“The changes, to take effect on Nov. 1, will place a number of top executives directly under the purview of Mr. Sloan, a 29-year company veteran who was promoted last November to Wells Fargo’s No. 2 spot, becoming the bank’s president and chief operating officer.” Read more.

REROUTING EUROPE’S OIL — FT’s Andrew Ward and Laura Pitel: “The TurkStream agreement between Russian president Vladimir Putin and Turkish president Recep Tayyip Erdogan in Istanbul on Monday would, if implemented, redraw the energy map of Europe by allowing Russia to bypass some of its gas around Ukraine.”

“TurkStream, to be operated by Gazprom, the Russian state-owned gas monopoly, was proposed by Mr Putin two years ago as a replacement for the abandoned South Stream pipeline which had involved co-operation between Russia and several EU countries.”

THE HOUSE DOESN’T ALWAYS WIN — Washington Post’s Jonathan O’Connell and Drew Harwell: “Trump Taj Mahal, the Atlantic City casino-hotel Donald Trump once suggested was proof of his deal-making mastery, closed for good on Monday, putting 3,000 people out of work and further eroding the Republican’s message that he is an unmatched business success.

“The casino’s owner, billionaire investor Carl Icahn, blamed the closure on a bitter disagreement with the casino’s unionized workers, who went on strike in July.” Read more.

ECB BOOSTS DEUTSCHE’S STRESS TEST SCORE — FT’s Laura Noonan, Caroline Binham and James Shotter: “Deutsche’s results included the $4bn proceeds from selling its stake in Chinese lender Hua Xia even though the deal had not been done by the end of 2015, the official cut-off point for transactions to be included.

“Without the Hua Xia boost, the ratio would have been 7.4 per cent, a level comfortably above regulatory minimums. Still, the higher published result helped reassure investors who were growing increasingly nervy about the bank’s capital adequacy.” Read more.

BLOODSUCKERS — WSJ’s Christopher Weaver: “One of Theranos Inc.’s biggest financial backers has sued the embattled startup and its founder for allegedly lying to attract its nearly $100 million investment, according to a fund document and people familiar with the matter.

“Partner Fund Management LP, a San Francisco-based hedge fund, filed the suit in Delaware Court of Chancery Monday afternoon, a letter to the hedge-fund’s investors says.” Read more.

SALESFORCE STILL INTERESTED IN TWITTER — NYT’s Mike Isaac: “Over the last week, Twitter’s fate has appeared to be murkier than ever. The troubled social media company, which has been engaged in talks to sell itself, seemed to be running out of potential buyers. But inside Twitter, executives are continuing deal talks with at least one suitor, the online software company Salesforce.com … The talks are continuing even though Salesforce has faced pushback from some of its biggest investors over a potential acquisition.

“Jack Dorsey, Twitter’s chief executive, is now not averse to selling the company as long as it is what is best for the integrity of the product … That is a shift of heart for the chief executive from last month, when Mr. Dorsey was said to be resistant to a deal because he was concerned Twitter would be sold for parts. At the same time, Twitter’s executives are pressing on as if the company will remain an independent entity” Read more.

** A message from JPMorgan Chase & Co.: Cities truly succeed when economic opportunity reaches across neighborhoods. And JPMorgan Chase is helping more people realize their potential by working with local organizations to support small businesses, build education facilities and create affordable housing. Their goal? To improve the residents’ prospects as their cities revitalize. See how the first five recipients will make the most of their $3.5 million+ grants. **