http://dailypost.in/happening-now/punjab-congress-asks-golakchor-kanwar-sandhu-come-clean-various-favors-taken-akali-government/
111
11
Chandigarh : Punjab Congress accused charged AAP leader Kanwar Sandhu for diverting public’s attention from those personal and professional favours that he was garnering from SAD since few years on Tuesday.

When asked for an explanation on the favours he gained including his son’s admission and consequent appointment as PCMS doctor, senior Punjab Congress Leader declared the Sandhu’s statement ‘Golka Chor’ on illegal mining stating it as illogical and baseless. The statement of Sandhu targeting , “ Punjab Dialogue Committee AAP chairmen and Punjab AAP convener Gurpreet Singh Waraich as a bunch of lies”.

Sandhu pointed out that the auctions are opened for everyone , they have shown a doubt on stating mining business as illegal and an issue of conspiracy between the Akalis and Congress. PPCC leaders Gurkirat Singh Kotli, Amrik Singh Dhillon and Baldev Singh Sidhu has given a joint statement that, no questions on illegal mining were raised as contracts are auctioned by the Industries Department of the state government.

The PPCC leaders further targeted Sandhu that despite of blaming us in false allegations and asking for explanation, he should first explain about those favours that he had been favoured from Akali Dal since few years.

The questions raised by Punjab Congress leaders were, “how his son got admission in Medical college, Amritsar through NRI quota?” “Wasn’t he got favour from then SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur who was involved in conflict over the death of her daughter?”. Adding on, they asked him that “Wasn’t his son was served with several notices for his education fee”.

The PPCC leaders said that Sandhu’s son was appointed a doctor (Punjab Civil Medical Service) in the state government during the Akali kingdom. “But after the PCMS recruitment scam flew into the media headlines and came under a scanner, the matter also went to the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Sandhu made his son resign after one year of service as his son would have to face action due to the fact that he made it to the PCMS by taking undue favours and not on merit,” they added.

The PPCC leaders pointed out that Sandhu also got a plot allotted in Medicity Chandigarh as an illegal. “Sandhu should also elaborate that why did he took favours in the form of a plot in Medicity, which was later turned as the infamous Chandigarh Medicity scam.

The Congress leaders demanded that intead of indulging us Sandhu should come first and answer all the above mentioned issues and should highlight the favours and benefits that he had received from Akalis.