https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/worldviews/wp/2016/10/11/how-both-india-and-pakistan-are-punishing-journalists-who-write-about-kashmir/
114
11


Kashmiri journalists stage a sit-in protest in Srinagar, the summer capital of Indian-administered Kashmir, on Oct. 4, 2016. (Farooq Khan/European Pressphoto Agency)

In the three weeks since militants allegedly based in Pakistan attacked an Indian army compound, killing 18 soldiers, and India retaliated with “surgical strikes” to neutralize terrorist “launchpads” along the de facto border, officials in Islamabad and New Delhi have been falling over themselves to control the narrative of events. Amid mutual jingoism, paranoia and bluster, they have found it expedient to punish journalists who counter their preferred realities.

On Monday, Cyril Almeida, a columnist and reporter at Dawn, Pakistan's most prominent English-language newspaper, tweeted that he had been put on the “Exit Control List,” a roster of those forbidden from leaving the country. He had been about to embark on a family vacation. Almeida recently published a blockbuster exclusive report, which he attributed to unnamed officials, that detailed a confrontation in which Pakistan's civilian government admonished the military for abetting militant groups that operate on the borders of India and Afghanistan.

"Ur very famous in the airport. Ur name plastered at each immigration officer's desk. A big A4 sheet with just your name." - 'sources' say — cyril almeida (@cyalm) October 11, 2016

According to Dawn, the government has released three statements that accuse the paper of fabricating the story.

“Prime Minister took serious notice of the violation and directed that those responsible should be identified for stern action,” the most recent and strongly worded statement read. “The published story was clearly violative of universally acknowledged principles of reporting on National Security issues and has risked the vital state interests through inclusion of inaccurate and misleading contents which had no relevance to actual discussion and facts.”

Dawn has denied the allegations, saying the story was “verified, cross-checked, and fact-checked.” Zaffar Abbas, Dawn's editor, said, “The elected government and state institutions should refrain from targeting the messenger, and scapegoating the country’s most respected newspaper in a malicious campaign.”

Across Pakistan — and India, for that matter — public intellectuals came out in support of Almeida.

Had @cyalm shredded the Constitution; acquired properties abroad via offshore companies, dodgy wealth he'd be free to travel abroad. — Abbas Nasir (@abbasnasir59) October 10, 2016

Those who talk about @cyalm's story having harmed Pakistan's image have neither any sense of journalism nor of Pakistan's image. — Hasan Zaidi (@hyzaidi) October 10, 2016

Many journalist friends in Pakistan showing themselves to be braver than many in this country. In solidarity with @cyalm — Rajdeep Sardesai (@sardesairajdeep) October 11, 2016

According to Almeida's article, Shahbaz Sharif, the younger brother of Pakistan's prime minister and the leader of the country's biggest province, accused the military's intelligence agency of secretly freeing militants arrested by civilian authorities. India and the United States have long accused Pakistan of harboring, and even funding, banned terrorist groups that target India, such as Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Muhammad.

[The ‘deep and disturbing decline’ in global press freedom]

Meanwhile, in Indian-controlled Kashmir, residents are entering their third month of unrest, during which the government has imposed curfews, curtailed Internet access and prevented newspapers from printing.

On Oct. 2, the government of Jammu and Kashmir released a statement banning an English-language newspaper called the Kashmir Reader. It provided no specific reasoning for the closure, other than to claim that the paper had published “content that can incite acts of violence.” A later statement failed to pinpoint the actual story or stories that ostensibly prompted the ban, saying only that the paper had published items “disturbing public tranquility and notwithstanding the principles of rules governing the subject.”

Both India and Pakistan rank abysmally among democracies in the World Press Freedom Index. India ranks 133rd out of 180, and Pakistan ranks 147th. The governments of both countries clearly have lines that journalists should not cross, and which most do not cross for fear of repercussions.

Read more:

In Kashmir, doubts that Indian soldiers actually infiltrated across the border

How the world’s poorer countries breathe worse air, in charts and maps

By simply mentioning a Pakistani province, Modi fuels theories about India’s role in rebellion there