http://www.india.com/news/india/jayalalithaa-health-amma-to-miss-aiadmk-founding-day-celebrations-for-first-time-in-27-years-1564262/
111
11
Chennai, October 16: Amidst continuing concerns over Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa’s health status, the AIADMK will today celebrate the party’s founding day. The celebrations are expected to be very low-key with both the party chief, i.e., Amma and the party general secretary missing from the fete. This will be the first time that Jayalalithaa will not hoist the party flag and garland the statue of the party founder MGR, since she took charge of the party 27 years ago. The founding day celebrations will consequently be lead by the party’s presiding chairman E. Madhusoothanan.

This comes even as the Opposition has united to join various farmers’ organisations in the state to organise a 48-hour long Rail Roko protest against the central government’s stand on constitution of a Cauvery Management Board and also to urge the state government to call an all-party meeting to discuss the issue. Meanwhile, Jayalalithaa’s health status remains shrouded in mystery with the party members keeping mum about the exact details. She had been admitted in the hospital last month, after she complained of dehydration and high fever. There were rumours doing the rounds that suggested that Amma was on her death bead. However, the party had firmly denied all the rumours, saying that Jayalalithaa was responding well to the treatment and was making quick recovery.

The Apollo Hospitals in Chennai, where Jayalalithaa is admitted, had been releasing regular bulletins to update the public about her health. However, there have been no bulletins for the past six days, which has compounded the concerns of Amma’s party workers, supporters and fans, who have been offering fervent prayers for her good health. Amma has been visited by many Ministers including the Union Finance Minister Arun Jaitley and Bharatiya Janata Party chief Amit Shah, in the hsopital. In Sunday, Tamil movie super star Rajnikanth also visited the hospital to enquire about her health. ALSO READ: Jayalalithaa health: Superstar Rajinikanth visits Apollo hospital to check Tamil Nadu CM Jayalalithaa’s condition

The last health bulletin on Jayalalithaa that was released on October 10, said, “Necessary respiratory support, antibiotics, nutrition, supportive therapy and passive physiotherapy are being given.” The 68-year-old Tamil Nadu political matriarch has been heading the AIADMK for the past 27 years and her able guidance and leadership, the party has grown to amass the largest voter share in Tamil Nadu. The party was founded by MGR, after he was expelled from M Karunanidhi’s DMK on October 10, 1972. But even before he left DMK, MGR had a group of very loyal followers, who rallied their support behind him, the moment he left the former party to found AIADMK.