http://www.irishsun.com/index.php/sid/248099381
111
11
Border areas in JK, Punjab, Rajasthan, Gujarat on alert post surgical strikes by Indian Army

Irish Sun (ANI) Friday 30th September, 2016

Srinagar [India], Sept. 30 (ANI): The Border Security Force (BSF) has put all its units along the International Border on high alert in the wake of the surgical strikes by India on terror launch pads across the Line of Control (LoC) on Wednesday night.

Officials said the BSF headquarters in New Delhi has issued orders to all its units along International Border in Jammu, Punjab, Rajasthan and Gujarat to step up vigil.

BSF has restricted all civilian movement along borders with Pakistan and has also been asked by the Centre to provide manpower to local administration for evacuation of people from border villages to safer locations.

In Punjab, Government has ordered evacuation of civil population from villages falling within 10 kilometers of the border of state with Pakistan.

Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal put the entire government and political machinery in an emergency mode following the developments on the India-Pakistan border.

In Rajasthan, vigilance and patrolling in the border areas has been intensified and the force is alert.

Four districts of the state -- Bikaner, Jaisalmer, Barmer and Sriganganagar share over 1,000 kilometre long border with Pakistan and high alert has been sounded in Gujarat also.

Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel has said that high alert has been sounded in entire state, especially in the border districts.

Gujarat shares land and sea boundary with Pakistan. Three districts of the state- Kutch, Banaskantha and Patan share boundary with the neighbouring country.

Earlier, Indian Army conducted surgical strikes on terror launch pads across the Line of Control on Wednesday night.

Speaking to media yesterday, Director General of Military Operations Lieutenant General Ranbir Singh said, the motive of the operation was to hit out at the terrorists who were planning to infiltrate into the Indian territory.

Lt General Singh informed that significant casualty was caused to terrorists during the operation. (ANI)