http://www.business-standard.com/article/news-ani/border-areas-in-jk-punjab-rajasthan-gujarat-on-alert-post-surgical-strikes-by-indian-army-116093000145_1.html
112
11
Border areas in JK, Punjab, Rajasthan, Gujarat on alert post surgical strikes by Indian Army

The (BSF) has put all its units along the International Border on high alert in the wake of the surgical strikes by on terror launch pads across the Line of Control (LoC) on Wednesday night.

Officials said the BSF headquarters in has issued orders to all its units along International Border in Jammu, Punjab, and to step up vigil.

BSF has restricted all civilian movement along borders with and has also been asked by the Centre to provide manpower to local administration for evacuation of people from border villages to safer locations.

In Punjab, Government has ordered evacuation of civil population from villages falling within 10 kilometers of the border of state with Pakistan.

Chief Minister put the entire government and political machinery in an emergency mode following the developments on the India- border.

In Rajasthan, vigilance and patrolling in the border areas has been intensified and the force is alert.

Four districts of the state -- Bikaner, Jaisalmer, Barmer and Sriganganagar share over 1,000 kilometre long border with and high alert has been sounded in also.

Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel has said that high alert has been sounded in entire state, especially in the border districts.

shares land and sea boundary with Pakistan. Three districts of the state- Kutch, Banaskantha and Patan share boundary with the neighbouring country.

Earlier, conducted surgical strikes on terror launch pads across the Line of Control on Wednesday night.

Speaking to media yesterday, Director General of Military Operations Lieutenant General Ranbir Singh said, the motive of the operation was to hit out at the terrorists who were planning to infiltrate into the Indian territory.

Lt General Singh informed that significant casualty was caused to terrorists during the operation.

(This story has not been edited by Business Standard staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)

ANI