http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3777430/Changed-tune-Boris-Johnson-urges-Kremlin-oust-Bashar-Assad-months-praising-Putin-s-clarity-Syrian-dictator.html
111
11
Boris Johnson has said the war on Syria 'shames humanity' after meeting leaders of the opposition to President Bashar Assad at the Foreign Office.

The Foreign Secretary held talks with the Syrian High Negotiations Committee (HNC) today, hours after demanding the Kremlin abandon support for the dictator and help end the war.

Mr Johnson condemned Assad's 'killing machine' and made clear the president could have no role in the country's future.

His intervention - which comes amid claims that Syrian forces have been dropping chlorine bombs on the city of Aleppo - marks a shift in tone from Mr Johnson.

Boris Johnson said Russia's support for Assad was 'indefensible' as he met the leaders of Syria's opposition at the Foreign Office today, pictured

Mr Johnson greeted the opposition leaders in the opulent surroundings of the Foreign Office today as diplomatic efforts to tackle the Syrian civil war continued

In March he complained that efforts to build a viable government-in-waiting had 'not worked' and hailed the role of Russian troops in protecting the ancient city of Palmyra.

Writing in The Times today, Mr Johnson said: 'Even the Russians have accepted that there must be political transition.

'But then the Russians are also employing their military muscle to prevent him (Assad) from losing and to keep him in power.

'When the Russians are asked to explain this seemingly indefensible conduct they reply with one stubborn question: the question with which we began. What then? What follows Assad?'

Mr Johnson highlighted the Syrian High Negotiations Committee (HNC) plan for a six-month negotiating phase between the regime and the opposition with a total ceasefire and humanitarian access.

This would be followed by an 18-month period of transitional rule with a mix of opposition figures and current government and civil society representatives, he said.

But he insisted the plan had to see Assad removed from power and elections held.

Mr Johnson hosted a meeting of members of the High Negotiations Committee of the Syrian Opposition (HNC) and foreign ministers at the Foreign and Commonwealth Office

'There will be people meeting in London who have direct experience of running Syria, but who utterly reject the Assad-style police state,' the Foreign Secretary wrote.

'They want to create a new country in which there are checks and balances in government and in which the rights of women and minorities are respected.

'Their ambition is to ensure a safe space, free from terror, to which migrants can return.

'Above all, the High Negotiations Committee does not represent the victory of one sectarian group over another or the transfer of power from one faction in Syria to another.

A UK delegation including peers was heavily criticised yesterday for meeting Assad (pictured centre) in Damascus yesterday

'They propose a gradual transition.'

He added: 'There is still a chance that this vision can be made to work. If the Russians and Americans can together create a ceasefire, then the talks can restart in Geneva with the difference, perhaps, that all sides will by then have seen at least the scaffolding of a post-Assad Syria.'

In a column for the Daily Telegraph in March - when he was still Mayor of London - Mr Johnson wrote: 'For the last few years we have been engaged in an entirely honourable mission to build an opposition to Assad that was not composed simply of Isil. That effort has not worked, not so far.

'It has been Putin who with a ruthless clarity has come to the defence of his client. If Putin's troops have helped winkle the maniacs from Palmyra, then (it pains me to admit) that is very much to the credit of the Russians.'

Vladimir Putin has used Russia's military might to shore up the Syrian dictator amid threats from rebels and Isis-linked groups

That would allow the HNC, the 'broadest-based' opposition group in Syria, to bring forward its plan for a post-Assad Syria that is 'democratic and pluralistic' but which does not want to 'sweep away all the existing structures of the state'.

Mr Johnson's comments ahead of the Westminster meeting could be seen as a signal that the Government is ready to offer stronger backing to the Syrian opposition.

A delegation of British peers were heavily criticised yesterday for meeting Assad in Damascus.