http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3777649/Nine-people-charged-trespass-Black-Lives-Matter-protest-London-City-Airport.html
111
11
The all-white group brought airport to a standstill for six hours yesterday

Five men and four women charged after protest at London City Airport

Adam Elliott-Cooper, 29, 'blacked up' while on a holiday to St Lucia

A senior member of Black Lives Matter once 'blacked up' and joked about being in 'the minstrels'.

Oxford student Adam Elliott-Cooper, 29, covered his face in mud while holidaying in St Lucia and even copied Al Jolson's 'jazz hands'.

A picture was posted on Facebook and a friend asked him if he 'was trying to be black' and he responded: 'I was actually going for the dark skinned asian look'.

It came as nine Black Lives Matter supporters including a film producer cousin of Ralph Fiennes, a former Oxford University student and an organic farmer, were charged following Tuesday's protest at London City Airport.

Holiday snap: Oxford student Adam Elliott-Cooper, 29, covered his face in mud while holidaying in St Lucia and and even copied Al Jolson's 'jazz hands'

Joke: This is Black Lives Matter campaigner Adam Elliott-Cooper, 29, covered his face in mud and said he pretended to be 'in the minstrels'

Flights in and out of London City Airport were disrupted this morning after a group of Black Lives Matter demonstrators marched onto the runway and lay down on the tarmac (they are pictured above)

The all-white group have been charged with aggravated trespass and being unlawfully airside following a six-hour stunt on Tuesday which saw demonstrators chain themselves to the Tarmac over the UK's 'racist climate crisis'.

The incident triggered huge security concerns amid reports the demonstrators managed to get airside by sailing a blow-up dinghy across the Royal Docks.

Film producer Natalie Fiennes, 25, a cousin of renowned actors Ralph and Joseph, has been charged.

In 2009, she joined a so-called Climate Camp in a flowery Cath Kidston tent on Blackheath after finishing her A-Levels at elite Westminster School.

The former LSE student also previously occupied the university to demand free education and lectures to be open to the public, a protest she blogged about on the Guardian.

She lives with fellow LSE graduate Ben Tippet, 24, in a multi-million pound six-bed house in leafy Wandsworth, south London. He was also charged.

Her father is Peter Guilford Fiennes, an author who wrote To War with God about his First World War army chaplain grandfather Edward Montmorency ‘Monty’ Guilford.

Among those charged are Plane Stupid anarchists William Pettifer, 27 and Esme Waldron, 23, who caused mayhem at Heathrow last year when they chained themselves to a van and parked it across the main tunnel to the terminals 1, 2 and 3.

Pettifer, a worker on an organic farm in Radford, Somerset, and Waldron, a student from Brighton, were fined £200 after the blockade caused four hours of disruption and led to 75 people missing their flights.

Starry relations: Former LSE student Natalie Fiennes, pictured in her Kath Kidston tent, who is a Black Lives Matter supporter and cousin of actors Ralph, right in Harry Potter, and Joseph of Shakespeare in Love fame

Two of the nine people who have been charged over the protest at London City Airport are Esme Waldron and William Pettifer, anarchists from Plane Stupid

Dozens of police officers were at the airport in an attempt to move the protesters from the runway. Scotland Yard said it did not know how many officers were involved in the operation

Dramatic pictures from the operation show scores of officers and police vehicles surrounding the protesters on the runway, one of whom was sat perched atop the wooden tripod dressed in black. Officers approached him with a set of aircraft steps before giving him a helmet and a set of aircraft steps to help him down (pictured)

Actor Richard Collett-White, 23, from Kempston, Bedfordshire, who is also among those charged, was the Junior Common Room president at Oxford's Exeter College when it was closed indefinitely because of the mess.

Alex Etchart claims to have been involved with and inspired by Occupy London and Balcombe anti-fracking Community Camp

He was also a member of the Oxford University Association Croquet Club and a member of Oxfordshire Green Party.

Sama Baka, 27, Sam Lund-Harket, 32, and Alex Etchart, 26 - who all live in a houseboat on the River Stort, Roydon - have also been charged.

Mr Lund-Harket has spoken at Global Justice Now rallies alongside Friends of the Earth and given talks on world development for LSX Occupy.

The environmental group occupies areas of London, most notably St Paul's Cathedral in November 2011.

Meanwhile, Mr Etchart is a community musician and founder of XX - Experimental Experience, a creative theatre group that performs at the Edinburgh Fringe Festival.

According to his website, he has been involved with and inspired by Occupy London and Balcombe anti-fracking Community Camp. He is also part of Dragonflies Theatre which ran the Chemsex Monologues last month.

Last year he directed an opera about sex workers, featuring real-life burlesque dancers and others who work in the sex industry.

When asked by the MailOnline why he became involved with the protest, he replied: 'Because Black Lives Matter.'

The remaining person is Deborah Francis-Grayson, 31, from Slough.

She was one of six anti-fracking protesters who locked themselves to a fire engine outside Cuadrilla’s oil exploration site at Balcombe, in August 2013.

The five men and four women have been released on bail to appear before Westminster Magistrates' Court on Wednesday next week.

The protesters were arrested on the tarmac after bringing the airport to a standstill in a protest over the UK's 'racist climate crisis'.

The mayhem began yesterday at 5.40am when protesters chained themselves to a tripod in the middle of the tarmac to campaign against the UK's 'racist climate change', cancelling dozens of flights and delaying several more.

Richard Collett-White, 23, pictured second from right, who is also among those charged, was the Junior Common Room president at Oxford's Exeter College when it was closed indefinitely because of the mess. He was also a member of Oxfordshire Green Party

Police spent several hours 'negotiating' with those responsible as they waited for 'specialist resources' to unlock them, causing chaos for passengers.

It was only after six hours that all the protesters were successfully removed from the site and taken into police custody.

According to the protest group, the demonstration focused on the airport's expansion plans, which they claim will favour the 'wealthy' passengers and ignore the local population of Newham, the borough in which the airport is based.

After arriving on the site, the group released a statement saying black people are '28 per cent more likely to suffer air pollution' and that the airport was allowing a 'wealthy elite' to fly around the world while migrants are drowning in the Mediterranean.

It said: 'Recently London City Airport was given approval to expand its capacity, a move that consigns the local community in Newham to further deterioration of their environment.

'The average salary of a London City Airport user is Euro 136,000 and 63 per cent of them work in business, finance or other business services. It is an airport designed for the wealthy.

'At the same time 40 per cent of Newham's population struggle to survive on £20k or less.'

It added : 'Our climate crisis is a racist crisis.'

Police arrived at the airport minutes after the demonstration began, but it was several hours before any arrests were made. Scotland Yard had insisted they had to wait for specialist teams to arrive with bolt cutters before taking action.

After hours of trying to talk with the activists, officers moved in on the site at around 9.30am and made seven arrests.

However, only two of the protesters were unchained and it was another two hours before all nine were removed from the runway.

The all-white group were charged this morning with aggravated trespass and being unlawfully airside in the airport. Police are pictured at the scene yesterday

Dramatic pictures from the operation show scores of officers and police vehicles surrounding the protesters, one of whom was sat perched atop the wooden tripod dressed in black.

According to a witness, he was smoking cigarettes, taking pictures and joking with officers until his arrest.

He was eventually taken away from the site after officers gave him a helmet and wheeled him over a set of aircraft steps to help him down. The runway reopened just after midday, but delays continued throughout the day.

Black Lives Matter, whose international movement was set up following the murder of black teenager Trayvon Martin in Florida four years ago, has carried out several demonstrations over the past few months.

The group brought the M4 - and other roads around the country - to a standstill in August in a co-ordinated day of action aimed to target those going on holiday and getting to work.

During that day of action - which coincided with the fifth anniversary of Mark Duggan being shot dead by police in Tottenham, North London - protesters lay down in the middle of the road near Heathrow and brought trams to a halt in Manchester.

Activists also chained themselves together to block the route to Birmingham airports, while in the centre of Nottingham, four protesters lay across tram tracks.