http://www.business-standard.com/article/international/if-elected-it-would-be-busy-first-day-at-white-house-donald-trump-116090700093_1.html
110
11
If elected it would be busy first day at White House: Donald Trump

At an election rally he said that he would spend the first day undoing the policies of the current President Barack Obama

presidential candidate has said if elected in the November general elections, it would be a busy first day for him in the as he will be undoing the policies of previous government.

At an election rally in yesterday, Trump said that he would spend the first day in the in undoing the alleged dangerous policies of the current President Barack Obama.

This would range from suspending Syrian refugee resettlement, abolishing Obamacare, ordering renegotiation of NAFTA, eliminate Obama's executive orders and begin implementation of construction of wall.

"It's going to be a very busy first day," Trump said at an election rally in North Carolina. The change will begin my first day in office. First, we are going to eliminate every unconstitutional executive order and restore the rule of law to our land. Then, we are going to begin implementing plans for construction of a wall along our southern border. This will keep out the violent cartels and gangs, as well as their drugs that are poisoning our youth," he said.

"But that's just the beginning," he said adding that he will ask to send him a bill to repeal and replace Obamacare.

He will also instruct the Department of State to immediately suspend the Syrian refugee resettlement program and develop plans for the construction of a safe zone in the region, he said.

"I am also going to notify all countries that refuse to take back dangerous illegal immigrants who have committed crimes in this country that they will lose access to our visa programs if they continue to do so. This is the measure that is called for under current law, and I will enforce it," Trump said.

"Furthermore, I will direct every agency in government to begin identifying all wasteful job-killing regulations and they are going to be removed - this will include lifting the restrictions on American energy," he said.

"I will also notify our partners of my intention to renegotiate the deal, and will withdraw from the before it can be ratified. We are going to bring these jobs back to North Carolina," Trump said alleging that supported NAFTA, she supported China's entry into the World Trade Organization, and she supported the TPP.

"In a Trump Administration, we will negotiate trade deals on behalf of American workers - not on behalf of global corporations. We will work to ensure farmers in have the tools they need to thrive at home and compete on a level playing field in foreign markets - and that means negotiating fair trade deals that put America First," he said.

Press Trust of India