http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3768587/Twin-brother-school-cleaner-murdered-bride-Stephanie-Scott-walk-free-jail-eight-days-prosecutors-decide-not-appeal.html
112
11
The twin brother of Leeton school teacher Stephanie Scott's murderer is set to be freed from prison in just eight days after the NSW director of public prosecutions decided not to appeal his sentence.

Marcus Stanford, 25, was sentenced to 15 months in jail on Wednesday for his role as an accessory to the murder, after he pawned Ms Scott's engagement and graduation rings for $705.

Stanford's sentence was backdated to when he was arrested on June 10 last year, meaning he will be released on September 9.

Scroll down for video

Marcus Stanford (pictured middle) was this week jailed for being an accessory to the murder of Stephanie Scott, which was committed by his twin brother Vincent. He will be released in eight days after the NSW director of public prosecutions decided not to appeal his sentence

NSW Director of Public Prosecutions Lloyd Babb SC announced on Thursday afternoon he had decided not to appeal the punishment.

'I have formed the view that there are no reasonable prospects of success against the inadequacy of the sentence,' Mr Babb said in a statement.

The sentencing judge, Justice Robert Allan Hulme, said last week Stanford's decision to sell the murdered woman's rings was 'utterly appalling, disgraceful and inexcusable'.

However, Justice Hulme said the seriousness of Marcus Stanford's crime was in the low range for such offences, an assessment with which the prosecution agreed.

But NSW Premier Mike Baird said he did not think the sentence was appropriate.

Ms Scott from Leeton, New South Wales, was murdered last April just days before she was due to be married

Stanford sold the engagement and graduation rings belonging to Ms Scott in a pawn shop for $705

'When there is a crime such as this we need the appropriate justice and certainly on what has been presented that doesn't seem to be the case to me,' Mr Baird said at the time.

'The attorney-general (Gabrielle Upton) is reviewing every possible avenue in terms of actions she can take.'

Ms Upton has been contacted for comment.

Stanford's twin brother, Vincent Stanford, attacked the 26-year-old teacher at Leeton High School, in the state's Riverina, on Easter Sunday 2015, days before she was due to marry her childhood sweetheart.

A report by a forensic investigator also reveled Marcus Stanford had an addiction to drugs and alcohol. He would allegedly smoke cannabis up to eight times a day

Vincent Stanford dragged her to a store room, sexually assaulted her and stabbed her in the neck.

The murderer removed Ms Scott's engagement ring given to her by fiance Aaron Leeson-Woolley, and a graduation ring from her mother, and sent them with her driver's licence in an envelope to his brother's Adelaide address.

Marcus Stanford sold the rings for $705 at an Adelaide jewellery store and burned the driver's licence.