http://dev.thedailystar.net/backpage/police-clueless-over-afsanas-death-1272736
112
11
Eight days into the mysterious death of Afsana Ferdaus, police were yet to ascertain the place of her death.

“She didn't die in her rented one-room apartment in the city's Manikdi area. We don't know where she passed away,” said Sub-inspector Fazlul Haq of Kafrul Police Station.

On August 13, two men took the body of Afsana, a final-year architecture student at SAIC Institute of Management and Technology, to Al Helal Hospital in the city's Mirpur and left the hospital without informing anyone, said hospital sources.

Following the incident, police filed an unnatural death case with Kafrul Police Station.

Meanwhile, Afsana's brother Fazle Rabbi, who blamed Tejgaon College Chhatra League leader Habibur Rahman Robin for the death, yesterday alleged that police were not arresting him although he was in Dhaka.

“I found him active on Facebook four days after my sister's death. On August 17, a picture of him along with his friends on a city street was posted on his Facebook wall,” said Rabbi.

Masud Ahmed, deputy commissioner (Mirpur division) of Dhaka Metropolitan Police, said Robin was on the run.

Introducing themselves as a couple, Afsana and Robin had rented the apartment in a six-storey building about two and a half years ago, added Masud.

Rabbi, however, said he didn't know about his sister's marriage. “We want justice for her. It doesn't matter whether she got married or not.”

Delwara, a tenant on the first floor of the building, said although they seemed to have been married, Robin hardly visited the apartment in the last couple of months.

Afsana did not have enough food to eat for lack of money, she said. “I sometimes offered her meals when I sensed that she had nothing to eat.”

On several occasions, Delwara saw injury marks on her body. Once she found that Afsana's one eye was bloodshot.

Afsana's in-laws didn't accept her as Robin's wife and she was not allowed to live with them, Delwara quoted the architecture student as saying.

Meanwhile, Bangladesh Chhatra Union leaders at a human chain in the capital's Paltan area yesterday claimed Afsana was murdered. They announced that the ogranisation would lay siege to the home ministry on Monday if the murderer(s) were not brought to book by that day.