http://www.express.co.uk/news/uk/702042/Gloria-fumes-as-bank-gives-her-120-000-to-impostor
112
11
GETTY An imposted ripped £120,000 from the television stars bank account

The TV consumer champion said she was “upset and disturbed” that the fraudster could drain her account by simply walking into Santander with fake documents. Old Bailey jurors were told a middle-aged female thief went into a branch, accompanied by two accomplices claiming to be her daughter and teenage grandson. They gained access to the broadcaster’s account by presenting a driving licence in her name and claiming she wanted to add the youth as a signatory.

I spend most of my professional life warning people about scams, so there is an irony Gloria Hunniford

Cashier Aysha Davis failed to spot that the woman was not household name Gloria and the fraudsters were able to help themselves. Yesterday, after Davis was cleared of involvement in the scam, Gloria, who exposes scams in her role as Rip Off Britain presenter told of her astonishment. “I spend most of my professional life warning people about scams, so there is an irony,” she said.

SWNS Gloria Hunniford imposter walked into Santander with fake documents

“I speak to people warning them about scams because they are so clever.” Gloria, 76, said the impersonator did not even look like her. “The whole thing is upsetting, disturbing and worrying because if you can’t trust a bank with your money who can you trust?” The ruse also involved the callous touch of impersonating Gloria’s daughter more than a decade after her real daughter Caron Keating died of breast cancer.

SWNS Old Bailey jurors were told two accomplices claiming to be her daughter and teenage grandson

Gloria said: “My daughter has been dead for 12 years, yet this person has gone into the bank with the daughter who I don’t have.” She went on: “I am mystified and shocked and disturbed. The bank lacked security checking. “I couldn’t understand why Santander didn’t immediately notify me of unusual activity, because surely banks are supposed to have warning systems. “It was the scammers’ bank that raised the alarm.

CEN The leader of the swindling trio claimed she wanted to add the youth as a signatory

“In my opinion they need to step up their security among their staff. This was very loose.” Gloria, who presents the BBC One consumer show with Angela Rippon and Julia Somerville, added: “I want to know how this has happened.” The court heard the bogus Gloria went into a Santander branch in Croydon, south London, on June 3 last year with the “daughter” and Alan Dowie, 18, from Oxted, Surrey, who pretended to be the star’s grandson. Police are still hunting for the impostor and “daughter”. Sheilagh Davies, prosecuting, said of the impostor: “She looked really nothing like the rather more glamorous and better presented Ms Hunniford.

CEN Another payment of £18,940 was paid into the account of Reyon Dillon, 18

“They were a middle aged lady, who purported to be the real Gloria Hunniford but the bank account was held in the name of Mary Winifred Gloria Hunnford and the woman presented herself as Mary. “She was later to produce a driving licence in the name of Mary Hunniford, which the Crown allege was fake. “With that lady was another woman of around 40 years of age and with this defendant, Alan Dowie. They attended by prior arrangement and were seen by the personal banker Aysha Davis. “They were taken to her office and there was an arrangement to add Alan Dowie to the account of Mary Winifred Gloria Hunniford. “It was presented as a fact that he was the grandson of the lady purporting to be Ms Hunniford.

GETTY The prosecutor said a massive £80,000 was spent on Rolex watches

“She said she had ‘quite a few bob’ in her account. “She wanted her grandson to enjoy the benefits of the very substantial funds she held.” The court heard that within 90 minutes the first tranche of £19,000 was paid into Dowie’s bank account and over the course of the day a total of £102,000 had been drained. Another payment of £18,940 was paid into the account of Reyon Dillon, 18, who helped launder some of the money. The prosecutor said a massive £80,000 was spent on Rolex watches, including one costing nearly £30,000.

Davis told the court: “The name on the ID card was Mary Winifred Gloria Hunniford. “I had to Google Gloria Hunniford and even if I passed her on the street I wouldn’t recognise her.” The 28-year-old, of Streatham, south London, had denied one count of conspiracy to defraud. Dowie admitted the same charge and one of money laundering. Handing him an 18-month term of detention, suspended for two years, Judge Timothy Pontius said he accepted the youngster was a “dupe” in the scam.