http://www.heraldscotland.com/news/14692603.Mystery_passengers_aim_to_catch_Glasgow__pirate__taxi_drivers_in_crackdown/
112
11
GLASGOW’S licensing committee has backed plans to use mystery passengers to catch private hire drivers who illegally pick up fares in the street.

Councillors said there is substantial evidence that some drivers are picking up people who flag them down, creating a “significant risk to public safety”.

Details of the scheme were first reported on Saturday in The Herald’s sister title, the Evening Times, and now the scheme looks set to move into action swiftly.

READ MORE: Probe as ill woman dies after being sent on 350-mile taxi trip

Private hire cars can only pick up passengers through a pre-arranged booking made through the taxi booking office under the terms of their licence.

With no official record of their journeys, their insurance is invalidated, leaving passengers with no legal redress if they were injured in an accident.

ouncillor Frank Docherty, chairman of the licensing committee, said he was concerned the message that pirating is unacceptable was not getting through to drivers.

Mr Docherty added: “Pirate drivers put passenger safety at risk. Like the pirates of old, these drivers are only interested in making a quick buck and to hell with the consequences.

READ MORE: Probe as ill woman dies after being sent on 350-mile taxi trip

“The council has a very active taxi enforcement team but can’t be everywhere at once.

“Unfortunately, the drivers who end up in front of the committee may only be the tip of the iceberg.

“Private hire drivers will now be forced to think twice about who they are letting into their car. Do pirate drivers really want to take the chance they are actually taking a trip straight to the licensing committee and months out of work.”

READ MORE: Probe as ill woman dies after being sent on 350-mile taxi trip

Mr Docherty said introducing the mystery passenger scheme, which is backed by police, would protect both passengers and the legitimate drivers who play by the rules.

Of the 36 complaints against drivers which went before councillors between January and June this year, 21 related to so-called “pirate” drivers.

In all cases, this resulted in the drivers having their licences suspended, sometimes for up to six months for repeat offenders.

Police Scotland told the committee yesterday there had been incidents involving unlicensed journeys where passengers had complained about substantial fraud and sexual assault.