http://nation.com.pk/national/19-Aug-2016/modi-crossed-redlines-over-balochistan
112
11
ISLAMABAD - Pakistan is bleeding due to the sabotage activities by arch-rival India, country’s foreign office said yesterday, adding that the recent intrusive statements of Indian prime minister were totally unacceptable.

The two neighbouring countries have been at each other’s throats for the last several weeks after India launched a new campaign to silence the Kashmir freedom movement.

Dozens have been killed in Kashmir by the occupant forces after protests broke out against Hizbul Mujahideen commander Burhan Wani’s murder on July 8 by the Indian security forces.

Pakistan has raised the Kashmir issue at the UN and demanded sending a fact finding team to the held Valley to probe the human rights violations there.

At a weekly media briefing, foreign office spokesman Nafees Zakaria said confessions of Indian spy agency Research and Analysis Wing’s agent Kulbhushan Yadav were irrefutable.

“People of Pakistan have been victim of Indian spy agency’s sabotaging activities. RAW’s network under Yadav is busy in terrorist and sabotaging activities in Balochistan and Karachi,” he said.

He referred to the statements of PM’s Adviser on Foreign Affairs Sartaj Aziz and Special Assistant Tariq Fatemi who pointed out that this was reflective of Indian state’s involvement in sponsoring and financing terrorism in Balochistan and Nerandra Modi’s remarks amount to crossing the redlines.

Nafees said by mentioning Balochistan, the Indian prime minister had tried to ward off attention from what is happening in occupied Kashmir.

He said Pakistan was ready to allow the United Nations to send its team to Azad Jammu and Kashmir unlike India which turned down request by the UN rights council to travel to the occupied valley to investigate the alleged rights violations.

The spokesman said Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif had written to UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Prince Zeid Ra’ad Al Hussein “to (help) end the persistent and egregious violation of the basic human rights of the Kashmiri people.”

Reports said meeting of all political parties in India presided over by Prime Minister Modi this week dismissed the UN Human Rights Commission’s request to visit the Indian held Kashmir.

But Nafees Zakaria said his country had no objection if the UN wanted to send any team. “While welcoming any UN team that the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights may wish to send to AJK, we cannot accept equating the rampant human rights violations in Indian Kashmir with the situation in this side of Kashmir,” he added.

The spokesman said the AJK was an area open to everyone and was frequented by foreign tourists and members of the diplomatic community in Pakistan, including representatives of the United Nations, where they have observed recent elections and met cross section of people.

“Access to the UNHRC has been denied by India to Indian Jammu and Kashmir. Pakistan has never prevented UN officials from travelling to Azad Jammu and Kashmir,” he said.

Nafees said Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif will “forcefully” present Pakistan’s stance on the state-terrorism in Kashmir at the UN General Assembly session in New York next month.

He said Pakistan always raised the issue of Jammu and Kashmir at the annual UNGA session and mentioned Nawaz Sharif’s speech during last year’s session “where he strongly highlighted the internationally recognized dispute.”

The spokesman said most of the UN Security Council members had already been taken onboard on the continued violation of human rights in Kashmir.

Asked whether more dossiers would be presented to the UN about Indian involvement in subversive activities in Pakistan, the spokesman said investigations were in process following the arrest of Indian spy Kalbhushan Yadav. “At appropriate time, we will further take action in this regard,” he added.

To a question, he said Pakistan has invited India for dialogue on Kashmir in view of grave situation in occupied Kashmir and for the sake of regional peace.

About India’s attaching conditions for dialogue, the spokesman said Pakistan wanted to focus on Kashmir.

Nafees Zakaria said Pakistan had invited all South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation member countries for the forthcoming Saarc Finance Ministers’ conference in Islamabad. He said confirmation from India was awaited.

He said Foreign Secretary Aizaz Ahmad was in Germany for regular bilateral political consultations.

About Syrian conflict, he said Pakistan’s position is based on neutrality, impartiality and respect for Syrian independence, unity, solidarity and territorial integrity.