http://www.politico.com/tipsheets/morning-energy/2016/08/its-oil-co-vs-oil-co-in-latest-rfs-battle-215971
111
11
It's oil co. vs. oil co. in latest RFS battle

With help from Esther Whieldon

INTERNECINE BRAWL BREAKS OUT OVER RFS' SMALL PRINT: A high-stakes fight over who should shoulder the burden for meeting the federal biofuels mandate has opened up a divide between independent refiners and bigger, integrated companies — players who have been in lockstep when it comes to trying to repeal the Renewable Fuels Standard.

Story Continued Below

Refiners, who are currently the ones responsible for meeting the mandate by blending ethanol into gasoline or buying credits to offset shortfalls, are trying to convince EPA to shift the point of compliance downstream to the companies that own bulk distribution terminals, Pro’s Elana Schor reports. It’s a change that could save refiners millions of dollars each year.

On second thought: The American Petroleum Institute, representing major oil and gas companies, agreed with refiners on the point as recently as last year, but has been putting up opposition since the American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers petitioned EPA to change the point of compliance last month. "There are clearly API members that are benefiting in the current system and would stand to lose if the point of obligation were to change," one refining industry source told Elana.

The battle or the war? The fight risks endangering both sides’ biggest goal: repealing the biofuels mandate, since Capitol Hill aides are always eager for a small tweak that can help them dodge no-win political issues like the RFS.

WELCOME TO FRIDAY! I'm your host, Annie Snider, with you for one more day while Eric Wolff enjoys a much-deserved vacation. And I think it's fair to say we learned something important while he was away: ME readers are one dog-loving bunch. Dan the Dog can't wait to try your dozens of toy suggestions — just look how excited he is! I'll report back on the results in a few weeks. In the meantime, send your tips, quips, and comments to asnider@politico.com and ewhieldon@politico.com, and follow us on Twitter @annelizabeth18, @esthernow, @Morning_Energy and @POLITICOPro.

PARTISAN PING-PONG OVER EXXON PROBE: New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman's office fired off the latest round in its battle with House Science Committee Chairman Lamar Smith yesterday, calling House Democrats’ exclusion from the committee’s oversight of the AG’s ExxonMobil investigation “nothing more than partisan gamesmanship,” Pro’s Elana Schor reports. In a letter obtained by POLITICO, Schneiderman counsel Leslie Dubeck said her office suggested a “staff-level discussion” after rejecting a subpoena from Smith for documents related to the Exxon probe, but that GOP staff told the AG that Democrats had “decided not to join in the oversight” and thus would be left out of the meeting under “longstanding practice.”

Dubeck called that rationale “categorically false,” since Democrats had expressed interest in participating and because a congressional subpoena related to an ongoing state AG investigation is without historical precedent. But a Smith spokeswoman told ME Schneiderman and his team “appear to fundamentally misunderstand the U.S. House and congressional oversight,” and argued that because the committee’s Democrats have vocally opposed the investigation, “it is difficult to imagine how their participation will lead to a productive discussion.”

TRUMP TO TOUR FLOOD-RAVAGED LOUISIANA: GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump and running mate Mike Pence are headed to Baton Rouge today as the state recovers from record flooding, CNN reported late Thursday. Louisiana Republicans went for Trump during the state's primary to the tune of 41 percent, and Trump is expected to carry the state overall. Speaking at a campaign event in North Carolina Thursday, the GOP nominee called for the country to come together in the wake of the natural disaster: "We are one nation. When one state hurts, we all hurt — and we must all work together to lift each other up," he said. Trump's visit come as calls are rising for President Obama to visit the hard-hit state.

CALIFORNIA PUC UPS PG&E FINE: The California Public Utilities Commission voted Thursday to increase the penalty for PG&E's failure to maintain records of its natural gas distribution system to $25.6 million — $1.3 million more than an Administrative Law Judge decision issued in June. The increase comes after CPUC’s Safety and Enforcement Division and the City of Carmel-by-the-Sea filed appeals in the proceeding, which sought to determine whether an explosion that leveled an unoccupied home in Carmel indicated systemic violations by the utility.

“I remain concerned about what these violations show in terms of PG&E’s management of its natural gas distribution system, and I appreciate that there will be ongoing attention by intervenors and the CPUC into the company’s recordkeeping remedial plan," Commissioner Liane Randolph said in a statement.

NET-METERING STINGS NON-SOLAR CUSTOMERS IN NEVADA: Solar advocates’ drive to undo the Nevada PUC’s controversial decision to slash net metering payments and add fixed monthly charges got dealt a setback in the form of a report from analytics firm Energy and Environmental Economics Inc. Thursday. The study concluded that net-metering costs non-solar electricity customers $36 million annually — a major about-face from the firm’s 2014 review that found net metering was not shifting any costs onto non-participants. “For existing participants, about $20 million of the $36 million has already occurred, so the future cost of the program is about $16 million annually. New participants could add another $15 million,” Pro Energy’s Esther Whieldon reports. SolarCity, which has been lobbying state lawmakers to reverse the December decision, has asked the PUC to open a formal review of the updated E3 study.

READY, SET, BLOW: The country’s first offshore wind farm is officially complete, Deepwater Wind tweeted Thursday afternoon. It marks a significant accomplishment for the industry, which has struggled for more than a decade to begin U.S. development. The 30-megawatt, $300 million development off the Rhode Island coast is slated to start commercial operation in early November.

SWEET SATURDAY: With Florida’s Treasure Coast reeling from a summer algae crisis, environmental activists are gathering in West Palm Beach tomorrow to discuss what they argue is the main source of the problem: the sugar industry. Sugar companies operate on large swaths of land at what was once the northern portion of the Everglades, and are some of the largest campaign contributors to politicians in the Sunshine State. This year’s event, the second annual Big Sugar Summit, comes as activists are pushing GOP Gov. Rick Scott to follow through on a land purchase deal that they say is needed to alleviate the water pollution problem, but that the sugar industry opposes. Scott recently rebuffed efforts to accelerate planning for water storage in the region.

NRC WANTS FERC TO CREATE GENERIC INFO PROTECTION RULES: NRC staff on Thursday asked FERC to craft its rules on protecting sensitive information that could threaten critical energy infrastructure in a way that other agencies can replicate it. Congress last year directed FERC to improve its approach after DOE’s inspector general found that former Chairman Jon Wellinghoff did not break the law when he leaked information about grid vulnerabilities to industry members. That information was later reported by The Wall Street Journal. The December highway bill directed FERC to improve how it handles such intel and to create a process for sanctioning leakers.

But NRC staff is concerned FERC’s proposal would apply only to documents that it and DOE handle. “As the federal regulator of commercial nuclear power plants, the NRC regularly receives and generates information that, if released, could negatively affect, at a minimum, public health and safety, and that would thus qualify” as critical electric infrastructure information, commonly referred to as CEII, NRC said. “The NRC believes that, in granting the FERC the authority to ‘designate’ information as CEII, Congress intended that the FERC, instead, formulate a generic designation of CEII that would constitute the governing standard for other agencies to use for their own information.”

TEXAS REGULATORS OK SOLAR, UTILITY SETTLEMENT: The Texas Public Utility Commission on Thursday approved a settlement in which El Paso Electric dropped its proposal to add a demand charge to customers who have rooftop solar panels. The settlement between the utility and rooftop and consumer protection advocates follows on the heels of two similar deals utilities reached with those types of groups in Colorado and Tennessee, as Pro's Esther Whieldon recently reported. These settlements point to a new openness for compromise in the otherwise largely acrimonious relationship between utilities and the rooftop solar industry on net metering issues.

SOLAR ADVOCATES THROWING MCGINTY A FUNDRAISER: Standard Solar CEO Tony Clifford will host a Sept. 6 fundraising reception at his Washington, D.C., home for Pennsylvania Democrat Katie McGinty, who is challenging Republican U.S. Sen. Pat Toomey in a toss-up race. McGinty is a former head of Pennsylvania's Department of Environmental Protection and a prior environmental adviser to former President Bill Clinton. Also expected to have a role in hosting the event are the political action committees for solar companies SolarCity, SunPower and First Solar; entrepreneur and SunEdison co-founder Jigar Shah; Recurrent Energy lobbyist Steve Koerner; Deloitte Tax’s Washington Practice Manager Joel Meister; and 38 North Solutions principal Katherine Hamilton. The cost to attend the event ranges from $400 to $2,700.

QUICK HITS

— Congress, Worried About Trump, Is Trying To Tie The Next President’s Hands On Russia, BuzzFeed

— New Advice for The Graduate. There’s a Green Future in Plastics, Bloomberg

— A Danish Wind Turbine Maker Harnesses Data in a Push to Stay Ahead, New York Times

— State reinstates pay for employees charged with crimes in Flint water crisis, MLive

— 'Not a matter of money’: Family sweats out heat wave to protest utility’s $14 fee, Washington Post

THAT'S ALL FOR ME!