http://www.dailymail.co.uk/indiahome/indianews/article-3871916/Cordial-Kashmir-conversation-Separatist-leader-Syed-Ali-Geelani-meets-former-external-affairs-minister-Yashwant-Sinha.html
110
11
After snubbing the ‘all-party delegation’ comprising Indian Opposition parties last month, separatist leader Syed Ali Geelani met former external affairs minister Yashwant Sinha at his residence on Tuesday.

Sinha led a five-member delegation to Geelani’s residence where he is under house arrest, insisting that they are well-wishers of Kashmiris.

After emerging from the meeting, which lasted for an hour, Sinha said that the talks were held in a ‘cordial atmosphere’.

Separatist leader Syed Ali Geelani (pictured) met former external affairs minister Yashwant Sinha at his residence on Tuesday

The delegation later called on other separatist leaders Mirwaiz Umar Farooq and Abdul Gani Bhat.

Mirwaiz was released from jail on Monday night and remains under house arrest.

The other members of the delegation were Wajahat Habibullah, former chairman of the National Commission for Minorities; Kapil Kak, former Air Vice-Marshal; journalist Bharat Bhushan and Sushoba Barve of Centre for Dialogue and Reconciliation.

On September 4, Geelani had refused to meet CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, CPI leader D Raja, JD(U) leader Sharad Yadav and RJD’s Jay Prakash Narayan.

A Kashmiri throws back a tear gas canister at Indian security personnel during a protest after Eid al-Adha prayers in Srinagar

The delegation was met with pro-freedom and anti-India slogans from demonstrators who had gathered outside Geelani’s residence.

On Tuesday, the Sinha-led delegation too was met with anti-India slogans.

In the evening, the Geelani-led All Parties Hurriyat Conference issued a statement saying, “A high-level delegation headed by former external affairs minister Yashwant Sinha dropped at the residence-cum-office of chairman Syed Ali Geelani at 11:30 am".

Yashwant Sinha led a five-member delegation to Geelani’s residence where he is under house arrest, insisting that they are well-wishers of Kashmiris

“Geelani reminded the delegation of the historical perspective of the Kashmir issue, pending for its final resolution since 1947,” the statement further said.

As Kashmir entered into its 110th day of unrest on Wednesday, the Hurriyat demanded that all arrested people should be released and cases against them withdrawn.

Police have so far arrested more than 6,000 youths involved in stone-throwing.