http://m.themalaymailonline.com/malaysia/article/najibs-lawyer-says-pm-has-right-to-sue-in-personal-capacity
20
2
Najib’s lawyer says PM has right to sue in personal capacity

Share this article

Tun Dr Sri Ling Liong Sik is applying to strike out Najib’s suit on the basis that the latter is suing in his official capacity. — file picture KUALA LUMPUR, Sept 29 ― Datuk Seri Najib Razak can still initiate civil suits in his personal capacity despite holding office as prime minister, his lawyer Datuk Hafarizam Harun said today.

Najib’s entitlement to sue in his personal capacity is being contested at the High Court in his defamation suit against former MCA chief Tun Dr Sri Ling Liong Sik.

Ling is applying to strike out Najib’s suit on the basis that the latter is suing in his official capacity, and in extension, a public office holder cannot initiate defamation suits to respond to criticism.

“Our argument is that the Derbyshire principle should not operate in a vacuum. A public office holder should still be able to sue in personal capacity,” he told reporters after judge Datuk Nor Bee Ariffin head submissions from both Najib and Ling’s lawyers in the chambers this afternoon.

The Derbyshire principle refers to a court ruling in United Kingdom which ruled that a local authority, Derbyshire Country Council, could not initiate a defamation suit against criticism it received.

The principle was recently used in a Court of Appeal ruling which favoured newspaper Utusan Malaysia in a defamation suit brought against them by Pahang Mentri Besar Datuk Seri Adnan Yaakob.

“But the difference here is that Adnan sued in his capacity as MB, while [Najib] is suing in his personal capacity,” Hafarizam said.

Meanwhile, Ling’s lawyer Ranjit Singh based his arguments on the appellate court ruling and also the Derbyshire principle.

The submission by his lawyers also pointed out that the contents of the alleged defamatory remarks were made regarding Najib’s official capacity as PM, 1Malaysia Development Berhad (1MDB) board of advisers chairman and Barisan Nasional chairman.

The suit was filed by Najib against Ling last year after the latter agreed with retired prime minister Tun Dr Mahathir Mohamad in calling for Najib’s resignation.

He also accused Najib of taking monies not belonging to him and placing it into his personal account.

The court is yet to fix a decision regarding Ling’s bid to strike out the suit.