http://www.express.co.uk/news/nature/722411/police-dog-stabbed-robbery-recovery-Finn-PC-David-Wardell
110
11
SWNS Police dog Finn was stabbed whilst chasing down a suspected armed teen

German Shepherd Finn and his handler, PC David Wardell, had been tracking a 16-year-old after a taxi firm reported that a driver was being robbed at gunpoint. The cop's seven-year-old canine colleague refused to let go of the suspect despite his severe injuries - stab wounds to both his head and chest - while PC Wardell suffered an injury to his hand. Brave Finn was rushed to vets for initial treatment after the attack on October 4th, before being transferred to Davies' Veterinary Specialists in Higham Gobion in Hertfordshire.

PC Wardell, who has had Finn since he was a nine-month-old pup, said: "He's a lot brighter than he was and he's starting to get cheeky, so he's starting to get back to his old self. "Finn is an amazing partner. I can't think of anyone or any animal I'd rather work with. "His enthusiasm every day is second to none and it does rub off on you - he's always raring to go.

SWNS The courageous pooch is however making a miraculous recovery

"It's been really overwhelming for me, my family and our colleagues, so I would like to thank the public for all their love and support for Finn."

His enthusiasm every day is second to none and it does rub off on you - he's always raring to go PC David Wardell, Finn's owner

Finn, who is from the Bedfordshire, Cambridgeshire and Hertfordshire (BCH) Dog Unit, is currently resting at home and PC Wardell is building his canine partner's fitness with daily exercise. Since the attack, a campaign and a petition has launched calling for police dogs and horses to be given the same protection as officers in the UK - with the moniker 'Finn's law', similar to the US Federal Law Enforcement Animal Protection. The petition, created by David Burstow, has already hit nearly 70,000 signatures.

SWNS Owner David Wardell says that faithful Finn is the only partner he'd want to work with

The much-loved pooch is being monitored by Rob Adams, the soft tissue surgeon who operated on him at Davies' Veterinary Specialists. Mr Adams said: "The Davies team are honoured to have saved Finn and we are continuing to monitor his progress.

SWNS David has owned Finn since he was 9-months-old

Dog Photographer of the Year 2016 Tue, June 28, 2016 The Kennel Club Dog Photographer of the Year competition is a competition where budding and experienced photographers submit their canine images. All of the winning images will be on display at the Kennel Club in Mayfair, London from 28th June until 12th September Play slideshow Jamie Morgan/PA Wire 1 of 18 By Jamie Morgan of two Afghan hounds, which has won 1st place in the Portrait category in the Kennel Club Dog Photographer of the Year competition