http://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/Spunky-college-girl-and-friend-fight-off-knife-wielding-muggers-in-RR-Nagar/articleshow/54800632.cms
111
11


In a daring incident, two gutsy girls fought off a gang of three armed muggers in Rajarajeshwari Nagar last week. While nobody was seriously injured, the muggers managed to escape when the girls raised an alarm. The police have registered a case and launched a hunt.



Around 7 pm on October 5, the two engineering students were walking out of their hostel when they were attacked.



Nayana, 19, (name changed on request) told Mirror: “This happened very close to our hostel. My friend and I were walking up to a stationery shop when three men passed us by in a Black Honda Dio. They went ahead, took a look at us and made a U-turn and reached us. One of them got down and came up to me and said something. I had my earphones on. I took them off and asked him to repeat. He yelled at me to hand over my valuables, including mobile and cash, and threatened to kill me with a knife.”



Nayana said she told him to take away whatever he wanted but not to harm them. But her friend Arundati, 20, (name changed) was angered. She grabbed the man by his collar while holding away the knife.



“He tried to assault her and I started screaming loudly. Soon his associate joined us and caught hold of me,” recalled Nayana.



The man Arundati was wrestling with managed to shed his T-shirt (she was holding him by the collar) and ran towards the scooter. When Arundati turned to help Nayana, the man holding her also fled.



Arundati ran behind the muggers to kick the bike down so that people could help them catch the criminals. But they kicked her down and escaped, said Nayana. The girls didn’t have time to note the registration number.



Turned out, the muggers had escaped after noticing that a few passersby were coming to help the duo. The girls went to the police station and filed a complaint. The police visited the spot and recovered a knife.



Deputy commissioner of police (west) MN Anucheth said: “We are on the job. We will catch the muggers at the earliest.” He also appreciated the girls who not only fought the muggers but also chased and tried to catch them.