http://dailypost.ng/2016/10/03/nigerian-newspapers-10-things-need-know-monday-morning-52/
10
1
Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian newspapers :

1. Two police officers were at the early hours of Sunday killed and several others injured after some gunmen attacked a police station in Igumale, Ado LGA of Benue State. The officers were fast asleep when the gunmen invaded the area and opened fire on them.

2. The death has been announced of Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of Operations in Nassarawa State, Mr Usman Sabo-Longlong.

The late Sabo-Longlong, 56, who died on Saturday at the University of Jos Teaching Hospital, after a brief illness, has since been buried according to Islamic rites.

3. Senior Pastor of The Latter Rain Assembly, Pastor Tunde Bakare has called on Nigerians to be patient with the President as the desired change cannot be achieved within a twinkle of an eye.

According to him, President Muhammadu Buhari indeed inherited an ailing economy from the past administration and is currently working himself to bones just to make things right.

4. The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed has once again assured Nigerians that the freedom of the abducted Chibok girls is in sight.

Mohammed said that no group, local or international could claim to have more stakes or to be more committed to the rescue of the girls than the Federal Government, assuring that very soon, the girls would regain freedom.

5. Rivers State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has accused the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, of rigging the just concluded governorship election in Edo State in favour of the All Progressives Congress, APC.

The party’s Publicity Secretary of PDP in the state, Nwanosike Sam, claimed that the result finally released by the INEC did not tally with what was collated at most of the polling units in Edo State.

6. Third Republic Governor of Anambra State, Chief Chukwuemeka Ezeife, has told Nigerians to hold President Muhammadu Buhari responsible over the dwindling nation’s economy. Ezeife said Buhari has not been able to fulfill any of his campaign promises since he assumed power last year, adding that his acclaimed anti-corruption fight was one-sided.

7. Senator Dino Melaye has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to give presidential pardon and amnesty to treasury looters. Melaye in a statement on Sunday noted that though he was an unrepentant advocate for integrity and forthrightness, especially from public office holders, it would be nice if Mr. President can grant Presidential Amnesty/Pardon to all those who looted the nation’s treasury provided they return all proceeds of their loot to the government within six (6) months of the declaration of the Amnesty.

8. The Nigeria Labour Congress, NLC, has affirmed that those clamouring for the split of the country were only wasting their time, saying that there were enough gains to stay as one entity than living apart.

NLC also urged all Nigerians to join hands with the leadership of the country to find solutions to the current recession in the nation that had brought untold hardship to the people.

9. A legal practitioner, Mr. Ugochukwu Osuagwu, whose firm wrote a letter to the Code of Conduct Bureau, CCB, demanding information on assets declared by the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai, has opened up on how the Army boss got clearance for his controversial assets in Dubai.

Osuagwu, who is the Principal of St. Francis Xavier Solicitors & Advocates, had demanded for the details of the entire process and the CCB, in its response, disclosed that Buratai duly declared his controversial Dubai assets upon his appointment as Commander, Multinational Joint Task Force in May 2015, and also on his appointment as Chief of Army Staff in July 2015.

10. Mr Frank Ukonga, who contested on the platform of the New Nigeria Peoples Party, NNPP, in the just concluded governorship election in Edo State and three other candidates, have called for the cancellation of the results declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, anchoring their reason on malpractices.

Ukonga, Mr Andrew Igwemoh, of the Advanced Congress of Democrats, ACD, the candidate of the Social Democratic Party, SDP, Dr Omorogieva Gbajumo, and Mr Thompson Osadolor of Kowa Party, said INEC falsified the results to favor the All Progressives Congress, APC.