https://www.yahoo.com/digest/20161002-P0500/russia-warns-attack-syrian-forces-jets-pound-besieged-aleppo-00618734
111
11
Russia warned the United States Saturday against carrying out any attacks on Syrian government forces, saying it would have repercussions across the Middle East as government forces captured a hill on the edge of the northern city of Aleppo under the cover of airstrikes. The largest hospital in rebel-held east Aleppo was also bombed for the second time in days as Syrian government forces pressed a Russian-backed offensive to retake the entire city. The offensive has seen dozens of civilians killed and residential buildings flattened in the east, where an estimated 250,000 people live under government siege. Diplomatic efforts to end the fighting across the country have all but collapsed.

Bombs are raining from Syria-led coalition planes and the whole of east Aleppo has become a giant kill box. The Syrian government must stop the indiscriminate bombing, and Russia as an indispensable political and military ally of Syria has the responsibility to exert the pressure to stop this. Xisco Villalonga, director of operations for Doctors Without Borders

European Parliament president Martin Schulz called the hospital bombing a "war crime", tweeting that the international community "must unite to prevent city annihilation." The six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council urged the UN Security Council to "immediately intervene to stop the aggression against Aleppo." Russian news agencies quoted Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova as saying that a U.S. intervention against the Syrian army "will lead to terrible, tectonic consequences not only on the territory of this country but also in the region on the whole." She said regime change in Syria would create a vacuum that would be "quickly filled" by "terrorists of all stripes." U.S.-Russian tensions over Syria have escalated since the breakdown of a cease-fire last month, with each side blaming the other for its failure. Moscow and Assad spurned the ceasefire to launch the new offensive, potentially the biggest and most decisive battle of the civil war, which is now in its sixth year.