https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2016/10/02/trump-wonders-if-clinton-is-crazy-loyal-to-her-husband-or-healthy/
112
11
At a rally in Manheim, Pa., Oct. 1, Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump said his rival Hillary Clinton is only loyal "to her financial contributors and to herself." (The Washington Post)

MANHEIM, Pa. — In a rambling speech on Saturday night, Donald Trump imitated Hillary Clinton stumbling at a memorial service last month, suggested that she might be “crazy” and wondered if she is “loyal” to her husband.

“Here's a woman, she’s supposed to fight all of these different things, and she can't make it 15 feet to her car,” Trump said at a rally in this rural Pennsylvania town that started more than an hour and 40 minutes late. “Give me a break. Give me a break.”

Trump flailed his arms and jostled side to side. He then walked unsteadily away from the podium as if he were about to fall over, imitating a video from last month that captured Clinton leaving a 9/11 memorial service early and buckling as she tried to get into her van. Later, her doctor said she had been diagnosed with pneumonia. The episode has fueled speculation and conspiracy theories that Clinton is not healthy enough to become president.

Highlights from Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump's rally in Manheim, Pa., on Oct. 1. (Thomas Johnson/The Washington Post)

“Give me a break!” Trump said, upon returning to his podium. “She’s home resting right now. She’s getting ready for her next speech, which is going to be about 15 minutes and it's going to be in two or three days.”

At another point in the speech, Trump claimed that he has a “winning temperament” while Clinton has a “bad temperament.”

“Now, she’s got bad temperament,” Trump said. “She could be crazy. She could actually be crazy.”

And Trump for the first time publicly suggested that Clinton might not be faithful to her husband, former president Bill Clinton. Trump has coyly threatened to once again attack Bill Clinton for his infidelity, and Trump’s surrogates have repeatedly questioned the couple’s marriage this week.

“Hillary Clinton’s only loyalty is to her financial contributors and to herself. I don’t even think she’s loyal to Bill, if you want to know the truth,” Trump said as his crowd cheered. “And really, folks, really, why should she be? Right? Why should she be?”