http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/709184/Saudi-Arabia-Yemen-conflict-UK-arms-deal
112
11
The devastating footage sees a Saudi Arabian jets hit a Yemeni college with what is alleged to be a UK-made bomb. The video comes just a day after the Prime Minister Theresa May defended Britain's £3billion arms deal with Saudi Arabia. In the previously unseen footage, from January this year, a devastating airstrike smashes into a college within a built-up area in the capital city, Sana’a.

GETTY The UK agreed a £3.3 billion deal with Saudi Arabia, including helicopters, drones and bombs

Following the devastating explosion, a massive mushroom cloud rises to the sky, in a clip published by The Ferret. No-one was injured in the blast - although attacks on school are banned under the Geneva Convention. A security guard nearby recorded the shocking footage on his mobile phone and passed it onto Mwatana, a Yemeni human rights organisation. Mwatana has submitted the video to Westminster’s Committees on Arms Export Controls (CAEC) which is investigating UK arms involved in Yemen’s war.

GETTY Almost eight million people are suffering from malnutrition

The evidence of UK arms being used against civilians is overwhelming , yet ministers in Whitehall are pulling out all stops to support the Saudi regime Andrew Smith of Campaign Against Arms Trade

On the video, the human rights group said: “Mwatana investigated two air strikes carried out by the Arab Coalition led by Saudi Arabia on 8th and 10th of January 2016 which targeted the Community College in Quhaza village, Bilad Arroos District, about 32 kilometers south of Sana’a city.” The security guard witness, Ali Hadi al-Muzalim, told them: “On Friday, 8th of January, around 2pm I was in the administration building, and heard three air strikes targeted the compound. "Later I left the compound and made a basic shelter around 50 meters away from the compound. “On Sunday, 10th of January 2016, around 6 pm, again two air strikes hit the compound and I filmed the former with my mobile.”

GETTY According to the UN, around 10,000 have been killed in the conflict so far

The release of the clip comes during the week in which the British Prime Minister told MPs that selling weapons to Saudi Arabia “kept Britons safe”. She dismissed Mr Corbyn’s criticism that “what happened in Saudi Arabia was a threat to the safety of people here in the UK”. Instead, she hit back and said: “Actually, what matters is the strength of our relationship with Saudi Arabia.” The UK agreed a £3.3 billion deal with Saudi Arabia, handing the Gulf nation helicopters, drones, tanks and missiles. The long-running conflict in Yemen has seen nearly three million people forced to flee their homes and almost eight million people are suffering from malnutrition. According to the UN, around 14 million people - of Yemen’s 26 million population - are in need of food aid in the country. Last week, the UN admitted that the previous civilian death toll of 6,000 in the 18-month conflict was conservative and said it was likely at least 10,000 had been killed so far.

GETTY Tonflict in Yemen has seen nearly three million people forced to flee their homes