http://thenationonlineng.net/row-funaabs-trapped-2m-grant-tsa/
110
11
The government may croak about the Treasury Single Account (TSA) but not so tertiary institutions, which are complaining about its implementation. The Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta (FUNAAB) says it has been unable to access its $2million research grant from the TSA since last year. But, the Office of the Accountant-General of the Federation states that the fund is available, report KOFOWOROLA BELO-OSAGIE and ERNEST NWOKOLO (Abeokuta).

There is no love lost between the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) and the Federal Government over the Treasury Single Account (TSA).

The policy was conceived in the twilight of the Goodluck Jonathan administration, but its implementation began under President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration.

The TSA seems to be causing problems for tertiary institutions. The policy stipulates that all the money they get must be centrally collected and withdrawals approved by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). Under the TSA regime, institutions no longer have direct access to their funds, including research grants from international donor agencies.

At a press briefing in Lagos last month, ASUU President Prof Biodun Ogunyemi, complained that the TSA was retarding the progress of universities and promised to fight the government on the matter.

“As we have consistently argued, the implementation of the TSA is inimical to the well-being of universities. The policy has made it impossible for universities to draw research grants, run programmes based on endowment and transfer funds earmarked for staff development in universities locally and overseas.

“All our appeals to government to exempt universities from the TSA regime have fallen on deaf ears. Because of our abiding commitment to defending and protecting the university system, ASUU will go to any length to resist the continued implementation of TSA in our universities,” he said.

Vice-Chancellor (VC), Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta (FUNAAB) Prof Olusola Oyewole, is among administrators lamenting that TSA is impeding research in universities as institutions cannot access their research grants.

Oyewole said FUNAAB has over $2 million grants for the Cassava Adding Value for Africa (C:AVA) project funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation trapped in the TSA for almost one year.

“You can imagine the shock that our universities have, waking up one day to find out that our funds have been moved away from the commercial banks to an account that we can’t even identify,” he said.

He said through FUNAAB, the grant was meant to be disbursed to five African countries. However, since it was moved into the TSA, the institution has been unable to fulfil its coordinator role. The VC feared that the grant risked being moved from Nigeria to the United Kingdom.

FUNAAB’s Director of Grants Management Prof Kolawole Adebayo said the first phase of the C:AVA project, worth about $13 million, was led by the University of Greenwich from 2008 to 2014.

FUNAAB was to lead the second phase of the multi-million dollars multinational CAVA II Project, which started in 2014 and is to end in 2019.

Adebayo said apart from FUNAAB and the University of Greenwich, other institutions collaborating on the research are: Food Research Institute, Accra, Ghana; Food and Nutrition Centre, Dares Salaam, Tanzania; Africa Innovation Institute, Kampala, Uganda; Chancellor College, University of Malawi, Zomba, Malawi; and the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA), Ibadan.

The Nation gathered that there are about 78 other institutional partners in government, private and non-governmental sectors in all named countries.

The second phase was planned to cost about $18.8 million. Adebayo said the first two tranches of over $3.5 million each were released in 2014 and 2015 to FUNAAB.

However, he said the third tranche of over $3 million was released in June to the University of Greenwich because FUNAAB could not provide funds to all project partners since about $2 million was moved to the TSA last October.

He explained that while the first phase of the project promoted the value chains for High Quality Cassava Flour (HQCF) to the benefit of over 90,000 smallholder farmers and community processors in Nigeria, Ghana, Tanzania, Uganda and Malawi, the second phase was conceived to facilitate systems where smallholder – farmers in the five countries can sell over two million tons of fresh cassava roots (for conversion) into HQCF, starch, ethanol, livestock feed and others.

Adebayo lamented that the progress already recorded is not only threatened by the movement of C:AVA funds into the TSA by the Government, but the project itself has also been relocated to the University of Greenwich pending when the missing funds is found and retrieved.

“After struggling in vain for more than five months, without having access to funds, we took the very difficult and humbling decision to advice our funders of alternative courses to ensure that the project continues to thrive.

“As of now, the C:AVA Project has been relocated back to the University of Greenwich pending such times that FUNAAB will be able to access and use the funds trapped in the TSA,” he said.

Adebayo said efforts were made to access the money when it was moved to TSA by contacting the office of the Accountant General of the Federation but without respite.

Adebayo said: “When the fund was moved late last year, we reached out to our banker (Zenith Bank) who advised us that the fund had been moved to the Central Bank of Nigeria as per TSA directive. We immediately contacted the CBN and were advised to direct our enquiries to the Accountant General of the Federation. This we did promptly.

“For over four months, we kept reaching out to the Office of the Accountant General of the Federation until we were told that the CBN had been directed to open new accounts for the project at Standard Chartered Bank of London.

“Between June when we got this information and now (August) we have not had answers to our enquiry on when the funds taken to the TSA will be deposited in this new account and how we would access it for the project.”

Adebayo feared that the incident has dented the university’s image and may affect its ability to pursue foreign grants in future.

‘FUNAAB’s reputation that was carefully built over more than 25 years has been trampled upon by the implementation of the TSA. Not many universities in Africa have reached the peak that FUNAAB got to before TSA.

“I can tell you that last year, FUNAAB had a portfolio of over 40 research grants. In 2016, we have not won any. This is partly because our academics lost a major incentive.

“How can you bid to win international grants in this hostile environment and then have the government confiscate the fund without cause? If the environment does not provide confidence that funds will be used for the intended purpose, funders can find other means of channeling their funds.

“Huge damage has been done already. It will take time to remedy. First, we need to access the funds that have been confiscated. Then, we need to tell the whole world that our universities have autonomy that cannot be wantonly trampled by government.”

The Nation made enquiries about FUNAAB’s missing C:AVA fund at the Office of the Accountant-General of the Federation (OAGF) domiciled under the Federal Ministry of Finance, Abuja.

A statement signed by Mr Ifeanyi Okereke for the Deputy Director Press, OAGF, explained that the office was making efforts to ease access to funds through the TSA.

In response to question about the need to move the money to a foreign account outside Nigeria, Okeke explained that the money is kept by the foreign bank for the institution and is accessible.

The statement reads: “In line with the operational guidelines of the implementation of the TSA as approved by the Government, the CBN shall open a domiciliary account in favour of an MDA upon receipt of mandate from OAGF. CBN decide the bank in which to open the account based on agreed criteria and list of foreign correspondence banks. Such Funds that are domiciliary in nature are only kept by the foreign banks on behalf of the concerned MDAs. The process for opening foreign bank accounts may take up to four weeks in line with the terms and conditions of the foreign bank including and the banks Know-Your-Customer (KYC) requirements.

“Pending automation of the foreign currency component of TSA, all MDAs with such foreign domiciliary Accounts are allowed to operate their accounts through duly approved mandate(s) signed by authorized signatories of the MDAs.The MDAs shall access their own domiciliary account in foreign banks through the CBN. The domiciliary account of the MDA shall be debited for such payments and the MDAs will receive value for such payments within 48 hours. Where there is any issue with the mandate or transactions, the MDA shall be duly informed by CBN within 48 hours.”

To get the mandate, Okereke explained that the institution must provide the following documentations and management approvals: “Complete mandate signed by the authorized signatories; Payment Invoice; Purpose of payment; Amount in foreign currency; Duly completed (Form A, where the CBN is selling Foreign Exchange to the MDAs); Contract Agreement or Extract from FEC where applicable; Due Process Compliance (where applicable); Advance Payment counterpart; NOTAP- where applicable; Management approval; and Beneficiary bank details including IBA code, bank name, account number, Swift code – to be provided by CBN.”

Okereke said the procedure was transparent and should not undermine the integrity of institutions involved.

Asked if the procedure is not bureaucratic, Okereke explained that it was instituted to ensure transparency.

“The system in place is not bureaucratic or cumbersome. The essence of the new policy is to streamline the processes, make it more transparent and accountable. This new system has helped to check the incidences of double or multiple appropriations. Under this, MDAs receives funding from both the appropriation and donor countries for the same subhead. MDAs are accountable for the Funds received to both the Government and the donor Country or Organisation,” he said.

He however added that efforts are being made to automate the process so institutions can access their domiciliary accounts electronically.

“The OAGF and CBN are in the process of automating the payment and receipt processes of foreign components of TSA. The new process shall empower each MDA to be able to access its domiciliary account through electronic channels as is currently done for all local payments. The new process shall be communicated to all MDAs as soon as it is finalized and the systems have been put in place,” he said.

The statement also noted that the OAGF had completed the processing of the FUNAAB C:AVA fund and that the university could access the funds through laid down procedure.

“It should be noted that the Office of the Accountant-General of the Federation had since processed the Federal University of Abeokuta’s grant from Bill and Melinda Gates Funded Cassava Adding Value project (C:AVA). The institution should accordingly follow the approved process to access the funds,” the statement noted.

When contacted on Tuesday, Prof Adebayo said the university has not been informed how to access the fund.

“As at today, Tuesday, September 06, 2016 I have not been able to access the C:AVA II funds. It would help a lot if the Office of the Accountant General of the Federation can outline the ‘approved process’ to access the funds,” he said.