http://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/news/new-home-for-irish-language-school-35022893.html
112
11
Just two years after it brought a brand new dimension to secondary education in Balbriggan, Coláiste Ghlor na Mara turned the key on its brand new and state-of-the-art permanent home last week.

Just two years after it brought a brand new dimension to secondary education in Balbriggan, Coláiste Ghlor na Mara turned the key on its brand new and state-of-the-art permanent home last week.

Just two years after it brought a brand new dimension to secondary education in Balbriggan, Coláiste Ghlor na Mara turned the key on its brand new and state-of-the-art permanent home last week.

Coláiste Ghlor na Mara became the first Irish language secondary school in Balbriggan in 2014 and has carried on its work in temporary accommodation for the last two years while it waited for its permanent home to be constructed.

That job is finally complete now and the school's students were welcomed to their new home last week, for the first time, marking a huge day in the history and life of the fledgling educational institution. The new, state-of-the-art An Foras Pátrúnachta secondary school building on the Naul Road in Balbriggan opened its doors for the very first time at 8.30am on Thursday, September 1.

The multi-denominational secondary school, where Irish is the primary language used, is equipped with a full range of both practical and academic facilities, including a special education unit in the school for students with special needs. While it will eventually accommodate 1,000, on Thursday 130 students from 15 countries, all of whom will be educated through the Irish lanuage, started at Coláiste Ghlor na Mara.

Speaking ahead of the opening day, Aoife Elster, principal of the school said: 'We are really excited about opening the doors to our new school premises on Thursday morning. 'This is the result of eight years of hard work by parents, our founding committee and our patron, An Foras Pátrúnachta.'

The school principal added: 'We are delighted that the Irish language is so popular in this area, and that students with such diverse backgrounds and cultures have chosen to learn through Irish. 'I look forward to working with a great team of teachers and offering our students from the North County Dublin area and its environs equal access to education, an extensive curriculum and choice of subjects 'as Gaeilge', for many years to come.'

Patron of the school, An Foras Pátrúnachta, provides Irish-medium education at primary and secondary levels, with a range of spiritual ethos. Coláiste Ghlor na Mara opened in September 2014 to serve the people of North Fingal, East Meath & South Louth. The School is situated in Balbriggan, as this is a central location to the feeder Gaelscoileanna in the area. There are currently Gaelscoileanna in Ashbourne, Balbriggan, Drogheda, Rush and Swords as well as other active founding committees in the area

A meeting was called in September 2008 following discussion with parents of Gaelscoil pupils to asses the public interest in establishing a school. A founding committee was formed that hosted meetings with potential patrons and decided to go forward with Foras Patrúnachta as patron.

Fingal Independent