http://nation.com.pk/national/28-Oct-2016/india-should-read-writing-on-the-wall-nawaz
110
11
ISLAMABAD - Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif yesterday said India should read the writing on the wall as the human rights violations in Kashmir cannot go on for long.

The premier said India must implement the UN resolutions on Kashmir and cooperate in resolution of the dispute rather than multiplying tensions.

“The only peaceful, plausible, logical, and conceivable solution to the Kashmir dispute, which is also consistent with the international law and norms, is the implementation of the UN Security Council resolutions on Kashmir,” the prime minister said in his message on Black Day observed yesterday.

He said it was high time for India to read the writing on the wall and implement the pending UN Security Council resolutions on Jammu and Kashmir for amicable resolution of the long-standing dispute.

The prime minister said the only possible explanation of India's adamant refusal to implement these resolutions could be that “India was certain that the verdict of people of Jammu and Kashmir in such a plebiscite will be against it.”

He added, “More than 1.5 billion people of the region deserve to see the dawn of peace and prosperity which has been held hostage to the gross, consistent and systematic violations of human rights in Kashmir and complete disregard to the UN Security Council resolutions.”

He said, “We pay homage to the sacrifices of our brethren in Kashmir and reiterate our unflinching and steadfast moral, diplomatic and political support for the just cause of the people of Jammu and Kashmir.”

This support, he said, will continue till the realization of the lawful right of self-determination to the people of Jammu and Kashmir.

He mentioned that October 27, 1947 marks one of the darkest chapters of human history, which gave birth to a grave human tragedy in the Indian-occupied Jammu and Kashmir.

“On this day 68 years ago, the Indian forces landed in Srinagar to occupy, subjugate, oppress, and terrorize the innocent people of the Kashmir,” he said.

The prime minister said this pattern of brutalities continues with impunity even today. “Despite commitments to the international community and numerous resolutions of the UN Security Council on Kashmir, the Indian government has unleashed a reign of terror in Kashmir and remains recalcitrant to fulfil its commitments,” he said.

Sharif said in the wake of extra-judicial killing of young icon of Kashmir freedom struggle Burhan Wani, on July 8, the brutality of the Indian occupation forces had intensified.

“They have shed away all norms of humanity and civility in committing the worst form of state terrorism against the defenceless and hapless masses of Kashmir with the misplaced perception that they can crush the legitimate Kashmir struggle,” he said.

The prime minister said the Indian occupation forces are slaughtering the civilians with complete impunity and are supported by the whole Indian state machinery in this gruesome crime against humanity.

He said the obdurate use, without any restraint or a hint of remorse, of live ammunition and pellet guns by Indian occupation forces against the defenceless masses, was "highly contemptible and condemnable" in strongest possible terms.

The prime minister said Indian barbarism was highly deplorable and against the norms of humanity, adding that the continuous curfew for over 100 days had made the lives of innocent Kashmiris miserable.

To add to the unimaginable sufferings of the oppressed masses, the Indian government had created deliberate shortage of essential foods supplies, medicines, baby food, petroleum products and other basic amenities, he added.

“The current episode of Indian brutalities is nothing new in Kashmir. It is only a vivid illustration of a consistent pattern of state oppression, massacres, genocide and atrocities being continued by the Indian occupation forces in Kashmir for the last 68 years," he said.