http://www.standardmedia.co.ke/article/2000221040/13-people-killed-in-terror-attack-at-popular-hotel-in-mandera
112
11


Updated Wed, October 26th 2016 at 00:00 GMT +3

Military tank patrols the sreets of Mandera county after a grenade exploded on 25th October, 2016. At least 12 people were confirmed dead and four injured in what is believed was Alshaabab attack . Picture;Adow Jubat

Thirteen people were yesterday killed in a dawn terror attack in Mandera that seemingly aimed at causing mass fatalities.

The terrorists, possibly aware that Bishaaro Guest House is frequented by locals, chose the silent hours of the night to launch the deadly assault that brought part of the building crumbling down.

Initial reports indicate an Improvised Explosive Device (IED) and hand-propelled grenades were used in the attack.

Meanwhile, President Uhuru Kenyatta has cancelled his trip to Angola following the Mandera attack to condole with the bereaved families.

State House spokesperson Manoah Esipisu said the President will be represented by Deputy President William Ruto in the Security Summit kicking off today in Luanda, Angola.

In a statement from State House yesterday, President Kenyatta condemned the attack, saying the Government would do all in its power to bring the perpetrators to justice.

A survivor, who identified himself only as John Nyaga, said he was asleep in a nearby lodging room when he heard five huge explosions at around 2.20am.

“I was in my room and all of a sudden, I heard a huge explosion emanating from the direction of Bishaaro hotel. The attackers also exploded four more bombs, and I suspect that is when they were able to access the building,” said Nyaga.

He said the explosions were so huge that they shook the adjacent houses, including the one where he slept.

The witness said after the explosions, the attackers, who were about 20, started shooting. The gunfire lasted for about one hour.

“The sound of the gunshots was also powerful and one could tell they were fired from powerful firearms,” Nyaga said.

“I wondered why police could not respond immediately since they also heard the explosions.”