http://nation.com.pk/national/25-Oct-2016/pm-snubs-info-ministry-for-sending-inapt-names
112
11
ISLAMABAD - Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif has snubbed the Information Ministry for making inappropriate proposal to fill the Pakistan Broadcasting Corporation’s top slot, The Nation learnt yesterday.

According to the sources, the ministry had moved a summary of three names including Director General Information Academy Sheraz Latif (grade -21), DG Cyber Wing, Information Ministry Zahida Parveen (grade-20) and DG Directorate of Electronic Media and Publicity Wing Saleem Baig (grade-20) to the PM Office for the appointment of new Director General of PBC. However, the PM Office rejected the summary and also raised the questions on the competency of officers of information group and appointed the Director Programmes of PBC Khurshid Malik as DG with immediate effect.

The sources further revealed that one of the three candidates had also tried to get the post of federal secretary information but the government also refused his name after the retirement of former secretary information Imran Gardezi a couple of months ago.

According to documents available with The Nation, “Prime Minister has seen and observed that none of the people proposed in panel at para 3, appears to have the right skill set for the job of the Director General, Pakistan Broadcasting Corporation, and only appears to have been proposed for this position since they are working in the information group”.

The prime minister, therefore, observed that it may be more appropriate to let one of the professionals of appropriate seniority from the PBC itself, head the organisation with a view to making it a vibrant institution as it still serves as a key medium for dissemination of information to the majority of people of rural areas.

Khurshid Malik will remain on probation for a period of six months as DG PBC during which his performance will be monitored by secretary information and broadcasting.

It’s the first time that the incumbent government has appointed a regular DG Radio Pakistan in last three and half years. The current additional Secretary Incharge of Information Ministry Saba Moshin Raza had served as DG PBC twice. Former secretary information Imran Gardezi had also looked after the matters of Radio Pakistan as DG before his appointment as secretary information.

Talking to The Nation on condition of anonymity, a senior officer of information group said the PM has no time to observe officers’ competency closely for the appointment of DG Radio. He said the officers of information group were very annoyed over the wording of the letter issued by Secretary to PM Fawad Hassan Fawad. He said that all three officers who were nominated for the post of DG PBC were very senior and experienced.

A senior officer of the ministry is preparing the reply of Fawad’s letter and submit it to the PM Office soon with the request to take action against the secretary to PM, he added.