http://www.express.co.uk/news/uk/718258/Ebola-nurse-Pauline-Cafferkey-hospital-fourth-time-police
112
11
PA Ebola nurse Pauline Cafferkey has been rushed back to hospital

The 40-year-old was taken by ambulance from her home in Cambuslang, near Glasgow, to the city's Queen Elizabeth University Hospital. It is the fourth time that the NHS nurse has been hospitalised since catching the killer virus in Sierra Leone, West Africa, in 2014. And her latest ordeal comes just weeks after she endured a misconduct hearing over claims that she hid symptoms of Ebola on her return to the UK.

She was cleared last month by a Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) panel in Edinburgh. Police Scotland confirmed the force had "assisted in the transfer of a patient". Miss Cafferkey contracted Ebola, which has killed 8,000 people in West Africa, while volunteering with Save The Children in Kerry Town, Sierra Leone.

JAMES WILLIAMSON The nurse entering an isolation unit to be flown back to London

It is believed a wrongly fitted protective mask exposed her to contact with infected body fluids.

The minute they let me fly, they put public health at risk Pauline Cafferkey

When she arrived back in the UK in December 2014, she was checked over within a Public Health England (PHE) screening area at London's Heathrow Airport but medics failed to diagnose the illness and allowed her to return home to Scotland. However, on arriving home, she complained that she felt unwell and was suffering from a high temperature. She was flown back to London where she spent almost a month in a critical condition, being treated in an isolation unit at the Royal Free Hospital. She was discharged at the end of January last year and just a month later returned to work as a public health nurse at Blantyre Health Centre.

PH Miss Cafferkey contracted Ebola whilst volunteering in West Africa

However, in October she was flown back to the London hospital for the second time where doctors discovered she had meningitis caused by the Ebola. She returned home a month later with medics revealing that the nurse had made a full recovery and was no longer infectious. Then, in February this year she became ill for a third time due to a complication linked to the original virus. Last month, Miss Cafferkey was called before the NMC panel accused of concealing her temperature during the initial checks at Heathrow.

SWNS This is the fourth time Pauline has been hospitalised since contracting Ebola

She was also charged with failing to reveal she took paracetamol, which reduces fever. A ruling found her judgment was "impaired" by the bug. Miss Cafferkey was cleared and afterwards accused health chiefs of the screening blunder at Heathrow. She said: "I'm bitter that I am the one they have tried to make a scapegoat for their failings.

The Ebola Crisis Fri, August 22, 2014 The latest Ebola outbreak is one of the largest and deadliest in history and the first in West Africa. The World Health Organization have declared an international health emergency as more than 1,200 people have already died from the virus in Guinea, Liberia, Sierra Leone and Nigeria this year. Play slideshow Getty 1 of 27 A burial team from the Liberian Ministry of Health unloads the bodies of Ebola victims onto a funeral pyre at a crematorium