http://dev.thedailystar.net/frontpage/4-judges-lose-job-corruption-1269421
112
11
The law ministry will tomorrow start the process for dismissing four lower court judges over their corruption and irregularities.

The ministry received an approval of the Supreme Court for dismissal of the four judges on Thursday afternoon, two top officials of the ministry told The Daily Star yesterday.

The judges are former Comilla women and children repression tribunal judge SM Aminul Islam (district judge), former Thakurgaon district judge Ruhul Amin Khandaker, former Jamalpur additional district judge Md Sirajul Islam and former Khulna additional district judge Moinul Haque.

They have been attached to the law ministry.

The ministry will now send the proposal of dismissal to the president for his approval, the officials said.

After getting permission from the president, the law ministry will issue a gazette notification about their dismissal, they added.

Earlier, the ministry investigated allegations against the judges and found those to be true, ministry sources said.

The law ministry then sent the inquiry report to the SC for action.

The SC authorities on Wednesday decided to dismiss the judges from their services. The authorities sent their recommendation to the law ministry for dismissing the judges a day after the decision, the SC sources said.

According to sources, SM Aminul Islam was involved in a massive corruption as he issued bail in at least 20 non-bailable cases when he was a judge in Dhaka.

Ruhul Amin Khandaker was involved in massive corruption including taking bribe in giving job in lower level when he was the district judge of Thakurgaon.

Sources also said that Sirajul Islam was involved in corruption and irregularities, including illegal acquisition of a piece of land when he was in Jamalpur.

Additional district judge Moinul Haque was also involved in corruption during his service when he was an additional district judge of Khulna. A total of 68 lawyers filed complaints against him for issuing verdict after taking bribe. Haque kept 140 cases waiting for delivering verdict after completion of hearing in those cases.

The chief justice took decision after consultations with all the High Court division judges, who were present at the full-court meeting.