http://zeenews.india.com/news/tripura-cm-manik-sarkar-appeals-to-people-to-maintain-peace-harmony_1922484.html
111
11
Agartala: Tripura Chief Minister Manik Sarkar today said the clashes between activists of Indigenous People's Front of Tripura (IPFT) and the locals here on Tuesday was provocative and appealed to all sections of the society to maintain peace and communal harmony in the state.

"The incident was provocative, violent and aimed at breaching peace and communal harmony. However, the situation could be tackled with the initiative of the peace loving people and patience exercised by security forces," he said at the civil secretariat here.

Sarkar said a section of people had tried to foment trouble by spreading rumours and using the social media after the incidents took place. But the peace loving people foiled all attempts of creating communal tension.

The government has clamped prohibitory orders under section 144 of CrPC in the town and intensified patrolling to maintain law and order, the Chief Minister said, adding, "The situation is now under control."

Sarkar, who is also the state home minister, said a magisterial inquiry has been ordered to unearth the truth behind the clash between IPFT and the locals and the report would be submitted in a month, he said.

"Media played an appreciable role in the situation and I again appeal to you all to keep vigil and play positive role," he said.

On many tribals, mainly students from villages, returning home with police escorts, the Chief Minister said their guardians had requested the police stations concerned to send them home with security.

"Police had arranged to send them home, because they could not remain unresponsive to their guardians' requests. However, the guardians have said they would send back the students to rejoin their schools," he added.

At least 22 people, including five police personnel were injured in clashes in different parts of the state capital on Tuesday after a section of activists of tribal based party IPFT, who had taken out a procession demanding 'Twipra land', a separate state for the tribals, attacked people and damaged some shops.

Yesterday, police said the clashes occurred when some miscreants in the procession attacked people and damaged shops apparently without any provocation. Angry locals attacked them in turn as a result 17 people and five policemen were injured.