http://leadership.ng/news/547675/governor-yari-jni-condemn-zamfara-killings
111
11
Governor of Zamfara State, AbdulAziz Yari, has described the killing of eight people in the state over alleged blasphemy as unnecessary and satanic.

Eight students of the Abdu Gusau Polytechnic in Talata Mafara, Zamfara state were murdered on Tuesday, over allegation of blasphemy.

Speaking to State House Correspondents after a private meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, yesterday, he said so far, no arrest had been made but vowed that the culprits would be made to face the full wrath of the law.

He said the practice of people taking laws into their hands was unacceptable as there are proper channels to air grievances.

“I think what happened is unnecessary, and it’s not supposed to be in place, if not for the act of the devil.

“As at the time I left Zamfara, no arrest yet, immediately the incident happened, the school authority shut down the school. The police and DSS are carrying out their investigation and soon, there will be arrests,” he added

The Jama’atu Nasril Islam (JNI) also condemned the killing of the students, yesterday.

In a statement by its Secretary General, Dr. Khalid Abubakar Aliyu, JNI said, “this recurring matter is becoming tediously monotonous and remains condemned in the strongest terms.

“The unfortunate attacks that ensued thereafter are criminal and also stand condemned. We reiterate that human lives are sacred and therefore must be dignified. That has been the position of Islam.

“JNI reemphasises that individual Muslims are not Jurists, but faithful in the practicing of the religion. Therefore, they don’t have the right to pass judgment on emotions.

“The nasty behaviour of some miscreants should not be misconstrued as the Islamic teaching. In the light of which we commend the efforts of the Zamfara State Government in nipping in the bud, the escalation of the crisis and equally the beefing up of security by the various security agencies, around Talata Mafara and its environs is also commendable,” the statement read.