http://www.asianews.network/content/foreign-funds-used-dhaka-attack-police-26336
111
11
Foreign funds have been used to finance the Gulshan Café carnage, police said yesterday.

"The money came from abroad, but it's unclear whether it came via a Bangladeshi or a foreign national," Monirul Islam, chief of Counter Terrorism and Transnational Crime unit of Dhaka Metropolitan Police, told reporters at DMP media centre yesterday.

Replying to a query, Monirul said Tamim Ahmed Chowdhury was the main coordinator of the attack and he collected and compiled funds from various sources.

On July 1, armed militants stormed Holey Artisan Bakery at diplomatic zone in Dhaka's Gulshan area and killed nine Italians, seven Japanese, two Bangladeshis, one Indian and one Bangladesh-born US citizen. Two police officers were also killed.

A commando operation next morning ended the siege, killing all five militants.

Monirul also told reporters that police have information about the buyer and supplier of firearms used in the attack.

Investigation is still underway to pinpoint the individuals who placed the requirement for weapons and explosives for the attack; who acquired and transported the items into the capital; and finally, who delivered those to the attackers, staying at the flat in Bashundhara residential area, he added.

Meanwhile, a bail petition of Hasnat Karim, the lone arrestee in the Gulshan café attack case, was rejected yesterday by a Dhaka court.

Metropolitan Magistrate Md Sajjadur Rahman passed the order after hearing the bail petition filed by Hasnat, a former teacher of a private university.

He filed the bail petition on Monday when police produced him before another court in Dhaka on completion of a total of 16 days' remand in two phases.

On August 13, Hasnat was shown arrested in the case linked with the murders of 20 hostages, including 17 foreigners, in the terror attack.

Earlier on August 4, former North South University teacher Hasnat and a Canadian university student Tahmid Hasib -- both survivors of the July 1 attack -- were taken on remand for eight days. Later, Hasnat was remanded again for eight days.

Tahmid was sent to jail on Saturday after completion of his remand for 14 days in two phases.