http://thezimbabwemail.com/zimbabwe-10308-grace-resumes-vicious-attacks-on-mujurutsvangirai-ngos.html
110
11
BINGA – Robert Mugabe’s wife Grace Mugabe on Thursday once again attacked former Vice President Joice Mujuru for problems afflicting the ruling Zanu PF party and criticized former Prime Minister, Morgan Tsvangirai, and non-governmental organizations at a rally in Binga, Matabeleland North province.

Addressing thousands of Zanu PF supporters at a rally, Mrs. Mugabe, who is also the ruling party’s Women’s League secretary, accused Mrs. Mujuru of creating factionalism that is now rife in Zanu PF and labeled her a “beetle”.

Without giving any details, the first lady said factionalism was re-emerging in Zanu PF after the revolutionary party’s congress held in December last year.

No comment was obtained from Mujuru as she was not answering her mobile phone.

Prior to the Zanu (PF) congress, the first lady launched a series of attacks on Mrs. Mujuru accusing her of being corrupt and plotting to topple her husband from power – charges that the former deputy president has denied.

Grace also told her supporters that Movement for Democratic Change founding president, Morgan Tsvangirai, was a power-hungry politician who should wait for his turn to lead the country.

She said her husband, President Robert Mugabe, was a God-given leader who should rule Zimbabwe in forever.

Responding,Tsvangirai told VOA Studio 7 that Mr. Mugabe was determined to rule Zimbabwe for as long as he lives and wants to take the country down the drain in the process.

The opposition leader is urging Zimbabweans to mobilize against President Mugabe’s continued leadership.

The first lady, who took the opportunity to give food handouts to the people of Binga, accused non-governmental organizations of not assisting needy people who have no access to food saying they only become concerned during elections.

As the 2018 elections draw near, Mrs. Mugabe appealed for the people of Binga to vote for Zanu (PF) saying they will not get anything from the opposition. Since the formation of the MDC in 1999, Zanu (PF) has never won a parliamentary seat in Binga.

The first lady said Zanu(PF) was failing to deliver economically because of sanctions imposed by the West on President Mugabe and his inner circle. But the opposition claims President Mugabe and his party have run out of ideas to run the country and revive its economy. – VOA