http://m.themalaymailonline.com/malaysia/article/ismail-sabri-dr-m-responsible-for-division-among-malays
112
11
Ismail Sabri: Dr M responsible for division among Malays

Share this article

Ismail Sabri agreed with the Sultan of Johor Sultan Ibrahim Almarhum Sultan Iskandar’s statement that Dr Mahathir was the root cause of disunity in the country. — File picBATU PAHAT, Aug 26 — Umno Supreme Council member Datuk Seri Ismail Sabri Yaakob said the party’s former president Tun Dr Mahathir Mohamad was the one reponsible for the division among the Malays.

Ismail Sabri, who is also Rural and Regional Development Minister, said this led to Malays to be split into a number of small political parties.

He also agreed with the Sultan of Johor Sultan Ibrahim Almarhum Sultan Iskandar’s statement that Dr Mahathir was the root cause of disunity in the country.

“There are six parties (formed as a result of disunity among the Malays). Two of them caused by Dr Mahathir. PKR for example, when Anwar (Datuk Seri Anwar Ibrahim) was sacked (from Umno), he formed PKR.

“Semangat 46 also was formed because of Dr Mahathir’s actions. Now, he sets up a new party (Parti Pribumi Bersatu Malaysia) which is aimed at attracting Umno members, the action will divide the Malays further,” he told reporters after opening the Parit Sulong Umno delegates meeting here today.

Sultan Ibrahim yesterday strongly rebuked Dr Mahathir over the former prime minister’s disapproval of the “Bangsa Johor” (Citizen of Johor) concept, saying that he was not qualified to talk about unity.

Ismail Sabri said that he believed that most Umno members were still loyal to the party and the current leadership.

He also advised them not to get too sentimental about former leaders.

“We know that they have done a lot, but when they form a new party together with the opposition to oppose Umno, then they are the enemies of Umno,” he said.

He also reminded Umno members and the Barisan Nasional component party members not to fall for the opposition’s agenda, and continue to strengthen cooperation to maintain the unity and to win the next general election. — Bernama