http://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/news/businesses-count-cost-of-portmarnock-bridge-closure-35061216.html
110
11
Traders in Portmarnock are reporting that trade is significantly down in the town since the controversial closure of a local bridge for essential repairs.

Traders in Portmarnock are reporting that trade is significantly down in the town since the controversial closure of a local bridge for essential repairs.

Traders in Portmarnock are reporting that trade is significantly down in the town since the controversial closure of a local bridge for essential repairs.

The bridge has been closed for a week now and local traders are reporting their business is down by between 20% and 50%, since the works began but that local people are making a concerted effort to shop local. The latest information from the county council suggests there is some light at the end of the tunnel though and the bridge is expected to be open to traffic at the weekend.

The Mace store at the Texaco filling station near Portmarnock roundabout has shaved an hour of its opening hours as a result of a 50% loss in trade. A spokesperson for the store told the Fingal Independent that after 7 O'Clock, the business is 'dead' and that throughout the day, the store has been hit badly by a loss in passing trade. Owner of the store, Philip Duffy took to social media last week and complained that the council had given the impression that Portmarnock was closed for business. A number of traders felt the same way and complained to the local authority who responded by erecting 'Business as Usual' signs around the village at the weekend.

John Fahey of Smyth's Buthchers welcomed that move from the council as well as local efforts to encourage Portmarnock residents to do their shopping in the village. He said his business was down 20% over the last week but he 'thought it would be worse'. The local butcher said: 'There's been a Facebook campaign and the local councillor, Brian McDonagh has sent around leaflets encouraging people to shop local. The GAA club has been very good to us and spread the word that it's business as usual in the village and local people in Portmarnock have been making a real effort to do their bits and pieces locally.'

However, the trader admitted that the closure had been 'extremely awkward' and said that the 'first day was an absolute disaster'. But he praised Fingal County Concil for being 'proactive' in tackling a number of the problems that emerged in the initial days of the closure.

Cllr Brian McDonagh (Lab) said he is pushing to have at least one lane over the bridge open as soon as possible. That could happen this week which would give some relief to local traders and ease traffic congestion on the back roads to Portmarnock and Malahide. Cllr McDonagh said his team distributed 1,500 leaflets locally, offering advice on the closure and diversions as well as encouraging people to support their local traders. He said he hoped that one the main platform of the bridge was in, at least one lane could be opened while the repairs continue.

Deputy Darragh O'Brien TD (FF) received an update on the works over the weekend from the council which reported that the works were progressing at 'a satisfactory rate' and bidding to ease concerns locally about access for emergency vehicles, saying that emergency services had got in and out of Portmarnock 'without incident'.

Fingal Independent