http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/dalai-lama-visit-arunachal-pradesh-china-india-ties/1/797765.html
111
11
Highlights 1 Dalai Lama's visit to Arunachal Pradesh not a problem: Centre

2 Dalai Lama had a "sizeable following" among Buddhists in Arunachal Pradesh

3 China views the exiled Tibetan spiritual leader as a political figure

China today hit out at India's statement saying the Dalai Lama was "free to travel" to Arunachal Pradesh, warning that any visit would "damage" relations.

The exiled Tibetan spiritual leader has been invited to visit the state in March 2017, and the Ministry of External Affairs said on Thursday that as a "revered spiritual figure and an honoured guest of India" the Dalai Lama is "absolutely free to travel to any part of the country".

China claims 90,000 sq km in Arunachal, which it refers to as "south Tibet", and has especially voiced strong claims on Tawang because of its links to Tibet and as the birthplace of the 6th Dalai Lama.

Beijing on Monday hit out at the US Ambassador in India Richard Verma for his visit to Tawang last week, blasting US "meddling" in the border dispute.

Reports of the 14th Dalai Lama's upcoming visit brought an even sharper response on Friday.

"We are seriously concerned about the relevant information," Foreign Ministry spokesperson Lu Kang said, adding that "China's position on the eastern section of the China-India border is consistent and clear".

"The Dalai clique is engaged in anti-China separatist activity and has very disrgaceful behaviour on issues relating to China-India boundary question," he said.

"The Indian side is well aware of the severity of the Dalai Lama issue as well as the sensitivity of the China India boundary question. Under such circumstances, India's invitation to the Dalai Lama for activity in the disputed areas between China and India will only damage peace and stability of the border areas, but as well as the bilateral relationship between China and India."

India had said that the Dalai Lama had a "sizeable following" among Buddhists in Arunachal Pradesh and that considering he had visited the state in the past, there was "nothing unusual if he visits again".

The Foreign Ministry however said that "making one mistake does not mean that you can make another mistake" referring to past visits.

It said the visit would be "providing a platform for anti-China separatist activities". China views the exiled Tibetan spiritual leader as a political figure campaigning to separate Tibet. The Dalai Lama however has rejected those claims, saying he is not campaigning for independence, has relinquished his historical political role and only wants China to guarantee the protection of Tibetans' rights.

The Foreign Ministry said it "requires the Indian side to honour their political commitment on Tibet related issues and abide by the bilateral consensus on the boundary question, refrain from taking any action that may complicate the issue, to not provide any platform for anti-China separatist activities by the 14th Dalai Lama. "By only doing so," it added, "can we maintain sound and steady growth of the bilateral relations."

Dalai Lama's visit to Arunachal Pradesh not a problem: Centre

