http://www.dailynews.com/social-affairs/20161027/principal-steps-down-as-el-camino-real-hustles-to-keep-charter-status
1123
11
Under the agreement, five out of seven El Camino board members will give up their seats and be replaced in the coming months. (File photo by Dean Musgrove/Los Angeles Daily News)

WOODLAND HILLS >> David Fehte, the principal of El Camino Real Charter High School, has stepped down under a newly ratified deal with the Los Angeles Unified School District that has the school scrambling to meet all of the district’s demands to avoid possible revocation of its charter.

Amid district allegations of inappropriate administrator spending and inadequate board oversight, the El Camino Real Alliance board formally approved a “memorandum of understanding” Wednesday night that halts LAUSD’s revocation process — as long as the Woodland Hills school complies with the detailed terms of the last-minute deal struck last week.

“This agreement, which makes changes to our board and our leadership, has stayed the charter revocation process and allows our school community to heal and refocus our priorities on our students and educational achievements,” El Camino Real Alliance Board President Jonathan Wasser said Wednesday.

• RELATED STORY: ‘Our school can heal,’ El Camino Real board president says

Under the agreement, Fehte — who has denied any wrongdoing but earlier this month agreed to take a pay cut and shorten his contract term — resigned Wednesday and Assistant Principal David Hussey was appointed in his place through the end of June. In addition, five out of seven El Camino board members will give up their seats and be replaced in the coming one to four months while the board needs to further revise its fiscal policies and procedures within the next two months.

The El Camino board was in the process of finalizing the terms of Fehte’s departure — as well as that of Chief Business Officer Marshall Mayotte, whose departure was announced earlier this month, Wasser said Thursday.

LAUSD’s Board of Education was slated last week to consider taking the second step toward potentially revoking the school’s charter after district staffers argued the school and its board had fallen short of fully fixing the alleged violations, which also included not adhering to open-meeting laws.

LAUSD board member Scott Schmerelson, whose district includes the school, said in an interview last week that he did not want this “great school” to lose its charter.

“I just want them to be fair and open and you cannot spend taxpayer money like that,” Schmerelson said. “It’s going to be better now, more transparent, and the (in-fighting) will stop.”

District staffers have alleged “numerous seemingly exorbitant personal and/or improper expenses” were charged by school administrators and processed without scrutiny from November 2013 to December 2015. El Camino officials have said that the vast majority of expenses were for business purposes and that Fehte has reimbursed the school for more than $6,000 in “inadvertent personal” expenses charged on his school-issued American Express card in the past three school years.

Advertisement

• RELATED STORY: El Camino Real high school students rally to “save our charter”

The issue of credit card spending came to light following a Daily News investigation published in May into charges made by Fehte and other administrators, including more than $15,500 at Monty’s Prime Steaks & Seafood in 2014 and 2015, occasional bottles of wine and hotel rooms at more than $350 a night.

Under the deal, LAUSD will appoint a single representative to the ECRA governing board in the coming weeks, something the district “doesn’t typically do” but is the right of any charter school authorizer, Attorney Janelle A. Ruley, who represents the El Camino board, said. As a result, the board will designate an additional community representative to the volunteer school board, bringing the total number of seats to nine.

Wasser, who joined the board in August 2014, and Scott Silverstein, who was elected this past summer, are the only members set to remain on the El Camino board, raising the ire of some Fehte supporters. Both Wasser and Silverstein have been critical of the principal’s actions.

“Mr. Wasser, I’m curious why you are on the board — what kind of deal was made?” asked veteran teacher Lori Chandler during public comments Wednesday. “For me, making a deal with the district is like making a deal with the devil.”

While the district was concerned about accountability of the board, “the decision regarding board transition was ultimately El Camino’s decision,” a district spokeswoman said Thursday.

The district is demanding that the El Camino board provide it with all meeting agendas and minutes prior to board meetings and approval of board meeting minutes. Each new board member and administrator will also receive comprehensive training on the Brown Act (the state’s opening meeting law), conflicts of interest laws, best governance practices and the Public Records Act.

If the school breaches the terms of the agreement, the district “reserves the right to reinstate the revocation proceedings,” the agreement states.

Lisa Ring, administrator in charge of the school’s Alternative Education and Intervention Program, thanked the outgoing board members for their “generous time and participation,” and said the school has thrived under their tenure as well as that of Fehte’s.

Frank Wymond, an El Camino teacher and representative of United Teachers Los Angeles, asked the school’s board to restore the charter oversight committee — a panel of teachers created to advise the board that was put on hold last fall — “so we don’t find ourselves in the crisis we’ve been in in the last year-and a-half.”

Fehte, who led the school’s transition to an independent charter school in 2011, said in a statement last week that he is “personally disappointed” with the way the media “chose to unjustly sensationalize ECR operational inefficiencies.” But he said he would “do what it takes to preserve this charter.”

Should El Camino’s charter ever be revoked, the campus could revert to LAUSD control if appeals to the county and the state are denied.