http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/10/10/mother-sues-sfpd-for-fatally-shooting-her-son-near-ballpark-in-2014/
115
11
SAN FRANCISCO (CBS SF) — The mother of a man fatally shot by San Francisco police near AT&T Park in 2014 filed a civil rights lawsuit in federal court against the Police Department Thursday, according to court documents.

Angela Naggie’s son O’Shaine Evans, 26, was killed on Oct. 7, 2014, when officers shot him after they had approached him and two others as they sat in a parked car near Jack London Alley near Bryant Street.

According to the lawsuit, the shooting was unreasonable, unwarranted and a use of excessive force. Additionally, the lawsuit claims police delayed medical attention to Evans immediately after the shooting.

Naggie and her lawyers are seeking unspecified monetary damages and want to deter incidents like to this from happening again, according to the complaint.

On Oct. 7, 2014, officers were monitoring the area around the ballpark as the San Francisco Giants playoff game wound down around 9 p.m., police said.

The officers noticed a suspicious car that appeared to be casing other vehicles. Officers then allegedly saw the car’s occupants exit the car and break into a Mercedes SUV parked nearby, according to police.

The officers approached the suspect car and noticed that the driver, later identified as Evans, had a handgun. One of the officers ordered Evans to drop the gun but he refused and an officer, later identified as Officer David Goff, shot the 26-year-old to defend himself and others, police said.

The vehicle’s rear passenger, identified as a 28-year-old San Leandro resident, was also injured but he survived.

The vehicle’s front passenger, identified as 25-year-old Steven Oliver Moore of Oakland, was arrested on Bryant Street as he attempted to flee on foot, according to police.

Evans was taken to San Francisco General Hospital where he died from his injuries.

Officers located Evans’s gun at the scene as well as a variety of items stolen from the Mercedes, police said.

The lawsuit argues that Evans never pointed a gun at the officers and never fired any shots. He had a cellphone in his hand when he was shot, according to the complaint.

After the shooting, Goff was placed on 10-day administrative leave, following standard procedure in the event of an officer-involved shooting, according to police.

The district attorney’s office has not announced any decision whether Goff would face criminal charges.

A day after the lawsuit was filed, a demonstration was held outside of the San Francisco Hall of Justice at 850 Bryant St., where mothers of victims of fatal police shootings gathered to demand that District Attorney George Gascon file charges against officers involved in fatal shootings.

Among the speakers at the event were Refugio and Elvira Nieto, the parents of Alex Nieto, who was also fatally shot by San Francisco police in 2014 and Gwendolyn Woods, whose son Mario Woods was fatally shot by police in Dec. 2015.

The family of Luis Gongora, shot by police on April 7, also spoke at the event. Earlier that day Gongora’s family announced they had also filed a civil rights lawsuit against the city’s Police Department.

TM and © Copyright 2016 CBS Radio Inc. and its relevant subsidiaries. CBS RADIO and EYE Logo TM and Copyright 2016 CBS Broadcasting Inc. Used under license. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Bay City News Service contributed to this report.