http://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-3831651/Bachelor-reject-Janey-carries-HUGE-sun-hat-makes-way-Bali-girls-trip-Faith-Rachael.html
110
11
She failed to find her Prince Charming in The Bachelor's Richie Strahan.

But on Sunday, Disney-obsessed Janey Birks appears to have well and truly moved on from her failed reality TV stint.

The 27-year-old was all smiles as she carried a huge sun hut at Brisbane airport, en route to a girls trip to Bali with fellow contestants Rachael Gouvignon and Faith Williams.

Scroll down for video

Moving on from Richie! Bachelor reject Janey Birks, 27, was all smiles as she arrived at Brisbane airport on Sunday ahead of a girls trip to Bali with fellow contestants Rachael Gouvignon and Faith Williams

The children's entertainer was seen being dropped off in a blue car with just a red medium-sized suitcase and a straw tote bag.

Cutting a chic figure, Janey sported a little black frock with lace sleeves, teamed with a white round-neck shirt underneath.

With her own unique style of dressing, the reality star wore a pair of white thongs with an embellished design and despite her diminutive size, carried an enormous black wide-rimmed hat.

Bag lady: The children's entertainer was seen being dropped off in a blue car with just a red medium-sized suitcase and a straw tote bag

Hoping to stand out? Despite her diminutive frame, the Disney-obsessed star was seen sporting a huge black round-rimmed hat

No special treatment here! Janey was seen handling her own baggage as she made her way into the airport

Allowing her long brunette tresses to fall effortlessly around her face and shoulders, she appeared to sport a minimal makeup palette of a flawless complexion, defined brows, lashings of mascara and a nude lip.

Janey was on her way to Bali, for a getaway of rest and relaxation with blonde beauty Faith Williams and brunette stunner Rachael Gouvignon.

The trio have already taken to their respective Instagram and Snapchat accounts to share sweet snaps, enjoying massages, shopping and exploring around the island.

Happy traveller: The brunette appeared in high spirits, no doubt enthused about a trip of sun and relaxation

Casual chic: The slender reality star donned a little black dress with lace sleeves, teamed with a white round-neck top

Flair: Adding a unique twist to her rather chic ensemble, Janey wore a pair of white thongs with an embellished design

Bali is no stranger to hosting the Bachelor contestants, with Kirralee 'Kiki' Morris having been snapped on the beach in the skimpiest of bikinis.

Another sign that Janey has well and truly moved on from Richie Strahan are snaps on her Instagram account that show her cozying up to a hunky new boyfriend.

Numerous images on her page see her looking a picture of content with Stevie Mac, who looks to be a male model.

Fuss-free: Janey allowed her signature dark tresses to fall effortlessly around her face and shoulders

Low-key: The bubbly personality appeared to sport a minimal makeup palette of a flawless complexion, defined brows, lashings of mascara and a nude lip

Moving forward: Janey appears to have well and truly forgotten about Richie Strahan, with the news she's been dating hunky Stevie Mac. Janey has shared numerous snaps cozying up to her new beau on social media

Announcing her new relationship to Instagram a month ago, she wrote in the caption: '#introducing @_steviemac_official'.

In the accompanying photo, Janey straddled her partner's back as they enjoyed a day out at the park.

The news came just over a month after Janey revealed to 2Day FM's Rove & Sam that she hoped to find love on dating app Tinder.

She even joked about using some of the unflattering internet memes fans had made about her as her Tinder profile.

Speaking of her exit from The Bachelor, Janey said: 'It was a long time ago...it was disappointing but I yeah feel OK. I'm doing alright'.

Love online? The news came just over a month after Janey revealed to 2Day FM's Rove & Sam that she hoped to find love on dating app Tinder

Taking it in her stride: Janey even joked about using some of the unflattering internet memes fans had made about her as her Tinder profile