http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/brace-yourself-nokia-branded-android-phones-are-coming-heres-everything-we-know-so-far/1/784251.html
110
11
Nokia is coming back. It's coming back really soon. Is that right, you ask? Yes it is. Earlier in May this year, Nokia announced that it was gearing up to make a comeback into phone business with a slew of Android phones and tablets. That being said, very little was known about Nokia's grand plans to rise from the dead, apart from the fact that it was working with a Finland-based company called HMD and that Nokia-branded phones would be coming towards the end of 2016.

Well, it is October and we are fast approaching the end of 2016. What's Nokia up to, you ask? Where is the slew of Android phones and tablets that it was supposed to launch later in the year? Hold your breath, ladies and gentlemen; the prodigal son is on the verge of returning. No, we do not know for sure when exactly, but we do know that as many as three Nokia-branded Android phones are coming. We do not know anything about a possible Nokia-branded Android tablet for the time being though.

But brace yourself; Nokia-branded Android phones are coming and they are coming soon. At this point of time, there's intel on as many as three Nokia phones incoming. Wait, it gets better. Two of these phones are said to be high-end flagship phones with high-end hardware, and quite possibly a hefty price tag. The third phone of the lot would be a relatively affordable affair, with a price tag hovering around the mid-range.



The affordable Nokia

The Nokia D1C -- a relatively mid-level offering - has been spotted on multiple occasions, on Geekbench earlier and on Antutu recently , giving out key feature set of the phone in question.

As per the Antutu listing, the Nokia D1C will come with a 1080p resolution display, and a Qualcomm Snapdragon 430 processor clubbed with Adreno 505 GPU 3GB RAM under the hood. The phone will come with 32GB internal memory and will run Android 7.0 Nougat out-of-the-box.

On the camera front, it is said to sport a 13-megapixel camera on the rear and an 8-megapixel camera on the front.



The flagship Nokia(s)

Nokia is said to be working on two high-end Android phones: one with 5.2-inch display and another with a 5.5-inch screen. Both the phones are said to sport a 2K resolution display and a Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 processor under the hood.

On the camera front, the high-end phones from Nokia are said to come with a 22.6-megapixel camera on the rear with LED flash and support for 4K video recording.



Who is making these phones?

"HMD has been founded to provide a focused, independent home for a full range of Nokia-branded feature phones, smartphones and tablets. HMD's new smartphone and tablet portfolio will be based on Android, uniting one of the world's iconic mobile brands with the leading mobile operating system and app development community," Nokia had earlier said in a statement.

HMD has acquired the rights to use the Nokia brand and would likely be involved in making and selling its Android phones in the days to come. As far as manufacturing is concerned, these phones would likely be made by Foxconn.

'

Also Read: Nokia announces return to phone business with Android phones, tablets