http://www.news.com.au/national/breaking-news/woman-drove-through-ambo-crash-scene/news-story/21c5df10aa0856e4bb920485f774e2d6
111
11
Rebecca Gredley Australian Associated Press

The family of a paramedic who is fighting for life after a head-on crash south of Perth is urging friends to pray for him, while a woman has been charged for allegedly driving through the wreckage.

Wesley Ackerman remains in a critical condition after the ambulance he was travelling in hit a dual-cab ute just before 5am on Monday in Oldbury.

Mr Ackerman has had emergency surgery at Royal Perth Hospital, while his colleague Sharron Price, who was driving the ambulance, suffered minor injuries.

The ambulance was on its way to a non-urgent job and carrying no patients.

The male driver of the other vehicle, aged in his 30s, was also taken to Royal Perth Hospital with serious injuries.

Mr Ackerman's brother used Facebook to ask people to keep him in their prayers, with many people responding that the paramedic and his family were in their thoughts.

"In this tragic time, we as the family and friends, need to create a circle of prayer for my brother Wesley Ackerman whom was seriously injured earlier this morning," Glen T Ackerman wrote.

St John Ambulance chief executive Tony Ahern paid tribute to fellow paramedics who attended the crash scene, saying it would have been especially confronting seeing their injured colleagues.

"They did the most amazing job in the most terrible circumstances," he told ABC radio on Tuesday.

Mr Ackerman was recruited from South Africa and has been with St John Ambulance for five years, Mr Ahern said.

More than $18,000 has been raised on crowdfunding website mycause to support him.

Police have charged a woman who allegedly sped through the crash scene about three-and-a-half hours after the collision, disturbing debris and forcing police officers to move out of the way to avoid being hit.

She allegedly went through road blocks and ignored instructions to stop.

The 42-year-old was stopped in Fremantle just after 4pm and her car was searched.

Police say it contained illegal drugs and was impounded for 28 days.

The woman has been charged with five offences including reckless driving and unauthorised disturbance of a police forensic area.

She will appear in court next month.