http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/720008/Russia-accuses-Britain-HELPING-birth-ISIS-Syria
112
11
NC Major General Igor Konashenkov made the remarks

The strongly-worded diatribe came from Major General Igor Konashenkov, the Russian Defence Ministry’s spokesman, who wade into the ISIS debate with a blistering assessment of Britain’s contribution. He said: “Where was the UK when ISIS nearly reached the Mediterranean coast, almost turning Syria into a terrorist caliphate, like Libya. “After all, it was you who controlled the skies at the time.” “Britain should be held responsible for the birth and nurture of ISIS, and Al-Qaeda affiliate Al-Nusra Front, which is now being effectively subdued by the Russian air forces.”

The senior Russian diplomat's comments came after Defence Secretary Sir Michael Fallon accused Russia of murder and war crimes in Syria. Pressure is growing on Russia to change its military tactics a little over a year since it began bombing targets in Syria. The controversy surrounding Russia’s involvement in the conflict reached a peak when an aid convoy was struck in an air strike that the West has blamed on Moscow’s jets. Defence officials now believe that Russian planes dropped the bombs that destroyed a UN shipment and killed at least 20 people in Syria last month.

The fight against ISIS Mon, September 19, 2016 The battle against ISIS militants (also abbreviated as Daesh, ISIL, IS and Islamic State) continues in the Middle East. Play slideshow 1 of 184

Russian cluster bombs are also thought to be behind a hospital bombing in Aleppo that killed and maimed 50 children. Speaking on Sunday, Sir Michael said: "It looks as if they did target that particular convoy and if that can be established then yes, they ought to be held accountable. "Russia is determined to prolong this civil war, is actually conniving at the regime's bombing of civilians and may indeed have been bombing civilians themselves.” But Maj Gen Konashenkov responded: “Before launching into incoherent conjecture about Russia’s supposed responsibility for the situation in Aleppo in particular, and Syria in general, it is necessary to think – what has the UK contributed to this poor country? “How many settlements have been liberated, how much humanitarian aid delivered, and how many square feet have been cleared of ISIS by the UK?”