http://news2.onlinenigeria.com/news/general/511978-budget-padding-jibrin-confesses-to-looting-n650m.html
112
11
Home | News | General | Budget padding: Jibrin confesses to looting N650m

– Abdulmumin Jibrin has confessed he was a beneficiary of a questionable office maintenance allowance in the House of Reps

– Jibrin says he got N650 million from the maintenance allowance

– He says he would explain how he used the money

Abdulmumin Jibrin, the Kano lawmaker at the centre of the unfolding budget padding scandal, has implicated himself for the first time since he blew the whistle on the five weeks long case.

According to Jibrin, he was also a beneficiary of a questionable office maintenance allowance for members of the House of Representatives.

Speaking on Saturday, August 27, Jibrin said he regretted taking the loot, adding that he would explain how he used his ill-gotten N650 million, Premium Times reports.

READ ALSO: I will continue to speak out until Dogara is removed – Jibrin

House of representatives member, Abdulmumin Jibrin

He said: “I have records and account of how I spent every penny that I have taken. In fact, it has been published in a 150-page book.

“However, I have never been comfortable with the money! Thank God the wasteful allowances regime has reached its Waterloo! The country and House will be better off!”

Jibrin’s confession came a day after he accused 10 principal officers of sharing more than N10 billion in fraudulent proceeds.

The 10 principal officers who allegedly received billions of naira in running cost allowance include the Speaker of the House, Yakubu Dogara, who allegedly got the largest share of N1.5 billion, according to Jibrin, Deputy Speaker, Yusuf Lasun, who got N800 million.

Others on the list are; Majority Leader, Femi Gbajabiamila, N1.2 billion; his deputy, Buba Jibril, N1.2 billion; House Whip, Alhassan Doguwa, N1.2 billion; and his deputy, Pally Iriase, N700 million.

The rest are Minority Leader, Leo Ogor, N1.2 billion, his deputy, Chukwuka Onyema: N800 million, Minority Whip, Yakubu Barde, N700 million and his deputy, Binta Bello, N700 million.

Abdulmumin Jibrin had accused the Speaker, Yakubu Dogara, and some officers of the House of padding the 2016 budget last month.

He accused Dogara, Deputy Speaker Yusuff Lasun, Chief Whip Ado Doguwa and Minority Leader Leo Ogor of asking him to allocate to them N40 billion of the N100 billion allocation for members’ constituency projects.

His allegation led to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) commencing a formal probe into the alleged padding of the 2016 federal budget, as Jirbin himself was grilled for seven hours on Tuesday, August 9.

Rate this article 0

CLICK HERE TO READ MORE FROM: General