http://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-3831463/Melissa-Gorga-Real-Housewives-New-Jersey-finally-admits-rhinoplasty.html
111
11
There has been much speculation as to whether or not Melissa Gorga has had a nose job.

She's always skirted around the issue and blamed it on contouring, however, on this week's episode of Real Housewives Of New Jersey she finally addressed the rumors.

After an intense argument where co-star Jacqueline Laurita accuses Melissa of having a nose job, Melissa says, 'Let's be honest, it's the worst-kept secret that I've had a nose job, but it's my secret to tell, not hers.'

Scroll down for video

Truth is out! Melissa Gorga admitted to having a nose job on this week's episode of Real Housewives of New Jersey

Gorga during an episode in 2011

Gorga seen last month during an appearance on Watch What Happens Live

‹ Slide me ›

The 37-year-old media personality spoke with the Daily Dish where she admitted to having it done.

She even revealed why she's been keeping it a secret all these years.

'It's a personal thing. It's not hurting anyone. It's your own business. Some people like to say, "Hey, I injected this, tummy tucked this," and that's fine, too.'

Not happy: She admitted it after an intense argument where co-star Jacqueline Laurita accused Melissa of having a nose job

Her truth: 'It's a personal thing. It's not hurting anyone. It's your own business'

She added: 'It's something that's personal to me. It's one of the very few things that is personal in my life at this point.'

The reality star continued: 'I have children, and there are certain things I don't feel like I need to blurt all over the world.

'That's private, it has to do with me, myself and I.'

Not happy with her: Melissa said it's something that's personal to her. It's one of the very few things that is personal in her life at this point

Defending herself: Jacqueline wasn't going to take the comments lying down, as she said: 'She never told me she had her nose done

'That was one of the things I wanted to keep to myself. Unfortunately, I had a crappy friend who has told the world for me,' Melissa said.

Jacqueline wasn't going to take the comments lying down.

'She never told me she had her nose done,' she said. 'It wasn’t like I spilled a secret or broke girl code, because she never admitted it to me. To me, it was just blatantly obvious, and I knew.'