http://www.4-traders.com/news/Kering-Appoints-Nikolas-Talonpoika-as-CEO-of-Christopher-Kane--23197514/
111
11
Regulatory News:

Kering (Paris:KER) announces the appointment of Nikolas Talonpoika as chief executive officer of Christopher Kane, effective 12 October 2016. He will report to Jean-François Palus, Kering’s Group managing director.

Previously strategic marketing and media director of Kering, Nikolas Talonpoika has significant expertise in marketing strategy and brand positioning in the luxury sector. He has been with the Kering group for eight years. As CEO of Christopher Kane, his mission will be to accelerate the brand’s international expansion while, together with Christopher and Tammy Kane, further strengthening its distinctive identity.

Nikolas Talonpoika will succeed Sarah Crook, who is leaving the Kering group after two years as CEO of the Christopher Kane house and on the back of the brand's ten year anniversary. Kering is grateful to Sarah Crook for her achievements. The past two years have seen the opening of the brand’s first flagship store in London, the international expansion of the brand, and diversification into new product categories. The brand has increased its visibility in Europe and Asia, and established a successful e-commerce presence.

About Nikolas Talonpoika

Nikolas Talonpoika, 44, has been strategic marketing and media director of Kering since 2012. He started his career in London, working at advertising groups WPP and Publicis as international client director on accounts such as Richemont, L’Oréal and Nespresso. Based in Paris since 2005, he was appointed media director at Gucci Group in 2008. At Kering, Nikolas Talonpoika has worked across all aspects of brand management, marketing and communications. A British national, he attended Dulwich College and University College London.

About Kering

A world leader in apparel and accessories, Kering develops an ensemble of powerful Luxury and Sport & Lifestyle brands: Gucci, Bottega Veneta, Saint Laurent, Alexander McQueen, Balenciaga, Brioni, Christopher Kane, McQ, Stella McCartney, Tomas Maier, Boucheron, Dodo, Girard-Perregaux, JeanRichard, Pomellato, Qeelin, Ulysse Nardin, Puma, Volcom and Cobra. By ‘empowering imagination’ in the fullest sense, Kering encourages its brands to reach their potential in the most sustainable manner.

Present in more than 120 countries, the Group generated revenue of more than €11.5 billion in 2015 and had more than 38,000 employees at year end. The Kering (previously PPR) share is listed on Euronext Paris (FR 0000121485, KER.PA, KER.FP).

Website: www.kering.com

Social Media

Twitter: @KeringGroup

LinkedIn: Kering

Instagram: @kering_official

YouTube: KeringGroup

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161011006355/en/