http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/delhi-police-dossiers-commissioner-investigation/1/784564.html
110
11
Highlights 1 Top brass of Delhi Police are not happy with the district staff due to "very poor" dossiers on criminals.

2 Delhi Police commissioner Alok Verma said that only basic information was being filed.

3 Delhi Police officials found that less than 50 per cent of the records were updated.

The top brass of Delhi Police are not happy with the district staff as the force is preparing "very poor" dossiers on criminals. Recently, Delhi Police commissioner Alok Verma pulled up the district heads and his office sent a strongly-worded letter to all the districts asking them to improve the quality of dossiers.

LAXITY SHOWN WHILE PREPARING DOSSIERS



Verma has also directed the investigating officers and other senior district officers not to prepare multiple dossiers on one criminal. "It has been observed that the quality of dossiers being prepared by the districts is very poor. Only basic information is being provided and filled," a letter sent to the districts from the commissioner's office stated. According to the letter, districts are showing laxity while preparing the dossiers.

Moreover, the police headquarters found multiple dossiers on a single criminal who had used various names. The districts, it seems, do not verify about these criminals, sources told Mail today. "It has been found that multiple dossiers have been prepared by the districts on a criminal who changed his name at the time of arrest. The investigating officers are directed to carefully examine this and ensure that no multiple dossiers are prepared in respect to any criminal," the letter stated.

UPDATING CRIMINAL RECORDS AND DOSSIERS

"We have found that various criminals who were arrested by the districts multiple times have several dossiers on them. The districts don't even verify the antecedents of these criminals. The districts prepare the dossiers on the basis of the name of the criminal when he is arrested. There cannot be any slackness while preparing these dossiers as it is one of our key jobs," a top Delhi Police official said.

Top police officials also lashed out at the district staff for not updating these dossiers. Considering this, it will now be the responsibility of additional DCP-1 of the districts to ensure the quality of these dossiers. "Not only the investigating officers, but also the additional DCP-1 will be held responsible for the poor quality of dossiers. Also, the in-charge of the investigation will be held responsible for multiple entries on any criminal or if half-baked information is provided in these dossiers," the official added.

According to sources, the staff of Delhi Police are not updating records in the Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and Systems (CCTNS) either. According to a police official, top Delhi Police officials recently analysed the performance of all districts and found that not even 50 per cent of the records are updated. Considering this situation, the Delhi Police 'have plans to hire operators to make the data available online', sources said.



ALSO READ:

Mumbai: Accused escapes as he was being escorted to jail

Delhi: Two men arrested by police with counterfeit coins



