http://finance.yahoo.com/news/hyatt-ziva-cancun-becomes-first-190000370.html
110
11
CANCUN, Mexico, Oct. 11, 2016 /PRNewswire/ -- Hyatt Ziva Cancun, Mexico's hottest all-ages/all-inclusive resort, recently introduced Turquoize™, its exclusive adults-only experience, designed to give contemporary adult travelers special access within an all-ages resort. The adults-only enclave features spacious and opulent suites, jaw-dropping 270-degree ocean views, and now, world-class butlers to cater to guests almost every whim.

View photos Courtesy of Playa Hotels & Resorts More

Turquoize butlers are dedicated to creating a guest experience unlike any other, and are held to the utmost standards to align with Hyatt Ziva Cancun's exceptional Service From The Heart®. Butlers have honed their skills through extensive training in order to offer the highest quality service to the resort's valued guests. As multi-lingual ambassadors of Hyatt Ziva Cancun, they lay the foundation for exceeding guest expectations and ensuring each visit is uniquely personal.

"Fulfilling our guests' wants and needs with quality and personalized service is at the core of our overall mission," said Kevin Froemming, Chief Marketing Officer of Playa Hotels & Resorts. Granting the opportunity for a personal butler to go above and beyond for each of our loyal guests is just another example of how we continue to raise the standard in hospitality."

In addition to the new private butler service, Turquoize guests also enjoy private and complimentary airport transfers with a 4-night stay, exclusive entry to the rooftop infinity pool and bar, access to La Bastille, the adults-only French bistro and preferred seating at one of the resort's most desirable oceanfront restaurants, Tradewinds.

For more information on Turquoize or to make a reservation visit, www.allinclusive.hyatt.com, call

800.760.0944 or contact your preferred travel agent. Join the conversation on Facebook and Instagram, and tag photos with #HyattZivaTurquoize.

About Playa Hotels & Resorts

Playa Hotels & Resorts B.V. (Playa) is a leading owner, operator and developer of all-inclusive resorts in prime beachfront locations in popular vacation destinations in Mexico and the Caribbean. Playa owns a portfolio consisting of 13 resorts (6,142-rooms) located in Mexico, the Dominican Republic and Jamaica. Playa owns and manages Hyatt Zilara and Hyatt Ziva Cancun, Hyatt Ziva and Hyatt Zilara Rose Hall Jamaica, Hyatt Ziva Puerto Vallarta and Hyatt Ziva Los Cabos. The company also owns and operates three resorts under Playa's brands, THE Royal and Gran, as well as five resorts in Mexico and the Dominican Republic that are managed by a third party.

Media Contact:

Kristin Delia

Playa Hotels and Resorts

845.358.3920 x19

kdelia@playaresorts.com

View photos Hyatt Ziva Cancun More

Read More