http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3783399/Jeremy-Corbyn-reignites-race-row-engulfing-Labour-launches-vicious-act-revenge-purges-Jewish-donor-criticised-regime.html
111
11
Michael Foster (pictured) was barred by Mr Corbyn after mounting a powerful attack accusing Mr Corbyn’s leadership cabal of being behind incidents of intimidation

Jeremy Corbyn has reignited the race row engulfing Labour by suspending a Jewish party donor who criticised his regime in The Mail On Sunday.

Michael Foster was barred by Mr Corbyn after mounting a powerful attack accusing Mr Corbyn’s leadership cabal of being behind incidents of intimidation.

He likened them to the ‘Sturmabteilung’ – the stormtroopers, known as the SA, or Brownshirts, who helped to cement the Nazis in power in 1930s Germany.

Despite Mr Foster’s status as one of Labour’s top donors – giving nearly £700,000 to the party over the past three years – he has been excluded while he is investigated for ‘abuse’.

As a result, Mr Foster will be banned from the party’s annual conference in Liverpool and prevented from voting in this month’s leadership contest between Mr Corbyn and Owen Smith.

Last night, a furious Mr Foster said he feared the action heralded the start of a full-scale ‘purge’ of Mr Corbyn’s opponents after his expected victory in the contest.

Mr Foster said: ‘The rule of law is being ignored because of intimidation by Corbyn, backed by Momentum, his Praetorian Guard. This will presage the purge of opponents within the Labour Party and then the deselection of any MP who is not signed up to the Left’s ideology.

‘Criticise Corbyn by using the free press and within hours 11,000 people petition the National Executive Committee for your suspension. The coward NEC then takes away your democratic right both to free speech and to vote and you are excluded from the Party. There is no due process.’

He added: ‘Corbyn is not just bad for Labour, he is bad for Britain’s democracy.’

Labour General Secretary Iain McNicol told Mr Foster last week that he was being suspended because of ‘the urgency to protect the party’s reputation’.

ACCUSATIONS OF ANTI-SEMITISM PROMPT VICIOUS LABOUR REVENGE 'If MPs declare their opposition to Corbyn, bully boy McCluskey threatens to target them with deselection. Oppose them as a Jewish donor and the riposte from Seumas Milne, Corbyn’s mouthpiece, is that you are part of a Blairite, Right-wing ‘conspiracy’ (the ancient racist rhetoric is that Jews don’t act alone, the malevolent Jew always conspires) to destabilise the democratically elected leader.’ MICHAEL FOSTER, MoS, August 14, 2016' 'He is too weak to stand up against the wing of the party on whose support he relies. These people have a Pavlovian reaction to Jews and Israel: see a Jew, see an anti-Palestinian. They blend Israel and Zionism into the supposed demagoguery of the classic Jew, an all-controlling malevolent demon intent on committing incremental genocide against the Palestinian people.’

He is accused of breaching a party leadership rule that ‘all eligible members and supporters must conduct themselves in a calm and polite manner and be respectful to each other at all times’.

Mr McNicol said in a letter to Mr Foster: ‘It is important that these allegations are investigated and the NEC will be asked to authorise a full report to be drawn up with recommendations for disciplinary action if appropriate.’

Mr Foster wrote his article for this newspaper in response to a series of allegations of violent and anti-Semitic incidents blamed on members of Momentum, the pressure group set up to maintain Mr Corbyn’s grip on power.

They have been accused of singling out moderate MPs who are opposed to Mr Corbyn’s leadership for abuse and running social media campaigns garnering support for the deselection of such MPs from Parliament.

Mr Foster is understood to be furious that the party has taken action against him under the very rules which were intended be used against the anti-Semitic abuse.

DATELINE OF A ROW THAT JUST WON'T DIE June 15, 2015 Political blog Guido Fawkes reveals Jeremy Corbyn referred to militant groups Hezbollah and Hamas as ‘friends’ at a meeting in Parliament in 2009. He later says he regrets it. October 4, 2015 Jewish actress Maureen Lipman hits out at Mr Corbyn, drawing attention to his controversial meetings with people she claims were virulent anti-Semites. Mrs Lipman adds: ‘If he is not anti-Semitic himself then he is more than happy to consort with those who are.’ April 26, 2016 Labour MP Naz Shah is accused of anti-Semitism after it is discovered that before she was elected she shared a graphic on Facebook in 2014 showing Israel’s outline on a map of the US, commenting: ‘Problem solved’. She is suspended from party and apologises in Parliament. Jeremy Corbyn and Shami Chakrabarti attend the Anti Semitism inquiry findings at Savoy Place, on June 30, 2016 April 28, 2016 Ken Livingstone defends Shah, claiming she is not anti-Semitic. He provokes outrage by referring to Hitler’s policy of removing Jewish people to Israel, arguing he supported Zionism. He is subsequently suspended. April 29, 2016 Labour launches an anti-Semitism inquiry chaired by Shami Chakrabarti, the former director of rights group Liberty, pictured above with Mr Corbyn. June 30, 2016 Jewish Labour MP Ruth Smeeth walks out in tears from press conference to launch Labour’s anti-Semitism report after being singled out by a member of Momentum while the leader looks on. August 4, 2016 Reports emerge that Miss Chakrabarti has been nominated for a peerage by Mr Corbyn, weeks after her report on anti-Semitism was condemned as a ‘whitewash’.

Moderates fear that if, as expected, Mr Corbyn wins the leadership contest against Mr Smith on September 24, he will crack down even harder against his opponents.

Only three days ago the two leadership contenders clashed angrily over the party’s record on tackling anti-Semitism and abuse within Labour. Mr Smith claimed there was a ‘hard-Left infiltration’ of Labour and that some were ‘bringing in to our party anti-Semitic attitudes’.

But Mr Corbyn responded by branding Mr Smith’s attacks ‘unfair’ and saying: ‘I have spent my life opposing racism in any form.’

In his article on August 14, Mr Foster compared the Corbyn cabal to the Sturmabteilung as part of an argument that they were using Momentum as an intimidatory device in a manner similar to that used by the nascent Nazi regime.

Mr Foster wrote: ‘Once political parties believe they are above the law, it ends with all opposition silenced, whether it is my grandparents in Dachau, or the Left in Erdogan’s Turkey rounded up and held uncharged in prison.’ And in reference to a recent court judgment about the leadership contest, he added that the ‘decision advantaged Corbyn and his Sturmabteilung (stormtroopers)’.

To Mr Corbyn’s fury, an accompanying news story highlighted that the stormtroopers were also know as the Brownshirts.

Mr Foster went on to say in his MoS article: ‘If MPs declare their opposition to Corbyn, bully boy [Len] McCluskey [the Unite union leader] threatens to target them with deselection.

‘Oppose them as a Jewish donor and the riposte from Seumas Milne, Corbyn’s mouthpiece, is that you are part of a Blairite, Right-wing “conspiracy.” ’

In an earlier article for this newspaper, on April 10, he accused Mr Corbyn’s supporters of ‘blending Israel and Zionism into the supposed demagoguery of the classic Jew, an all-controlling malevolent demon, and a rich one, intent on committing incremental genocide against the Palestinian people’.

The articles led to Mr Foster being bombarded with abuse by Momentum activists, with 11,000 people signing a petition calling for his suspension. The anti-abuse rules used against Mr Foster had been instituted in the wake of a review into allegations of racism carried out by Shami Chakrabarti earlier this year.

The report by the former Liberty director, who has since been given a peerage by the Labour leader, was dismissed by critics as a ‘whitewash’ after it found the Labour Party was ‘not overrun by anti-Semitism, Islamophobia or other forms of racism’.

The row follows a string of claims that supporters of Mr Corbyn have been behind alleged anti-Semitic attacks on his moderate opponents. Last week, Ruth Smeeth, a Jewish Labour MP who criticised Jeremy Corbyn, said she had been given police protection after receiving 25,000 abusive messages since the end of June.

Counter-terrorism officers are investigating after one abuser accused the Stoke-on-Trent MP of ‘treason’ and said the gallows would be a ‘fine and fitting place’ for her.

She was also called a ‘dyke’ and a ‘CIA agent’ by someone claiming to be a supporter of Mr Corbyn.

Moderates have accused Mr Corbyn of helping to whip up sentiment against Ms Smeeth by holding a Momentum rally in the town as part of what has been dubbed his ‘deselection tour’: Stoke is one area likely to face bitter reselection contests after changes are made to constituency boundaries later in this Parliament, which is expected to trigger brutal battles within the party.

Mr Corbyn’s opponents point to their leader’s own remarks in 2009 when he referred to militant groups Hezbollah and Hamas as ‘friends’ at a meeting in Parliament.

Earlier this year, Ken Livingstone provoked outrage by saying that Hitler was ‘supporting Zionism before he went mad and ended up killing six million Jews’.

Moderate MPs opposed to Mr Corbyn’s leadership – a majority of the party in the Commons – are divided about whether to serve reluctantly under Mr Corbyn while they resist these calls for their deselection, or to form a splinter group on their own.

The row comes as union barons gather in Brighton this weekend for the start of the TUC conference against the backdrop of the turmoil in Labour. TUC General Secretary Frances O’Grady is expected to enter a plea for Labour to stop the in-fighting and ‘start mapping out’ how to win the next Election.

The Corbynite revolution has made his party truly foul: STEPHEN POLLARD, editor of the Jewish Chronicle, on how Labour is punishing those who attempt to tackle anti-semitism

It’s the ultimate irony. When a Jew complains about the Labour Party’s attitude to anti-Semitism under Jeremy Corbyn, it is the Jew who is purged.

The Corbynites who now control the Labour Party can put whatever spin on it they choose, but that’s the reality of what has happened to Michael Foster.

Mr Foster, a long-standing and generous donor to the party, as well as a recent Labour parliamentary candidate, is not a man to stand back and accept the foul behaviour of some of his fellow Labour members and their Momentum comrades.

His comparison of the tactics of the hard left to Nazi stormtroopers may have been more of a scream of anger than an academically rigorous description, but think about what lay behind it.

For months he has witnessed a series of Labour members exposed as anti-Semities.

He has seen the shocking antics of the Corbynite Momentum organisation, which is engaged in a takeover of the Labour Party.

Jeremy Corbyn protests that he has attempted to tackle anti-Semitism and has said repeatedly that he instigated the report by Shami Chakrabarti

And he has seen – and been the target of – the disgusting anti-Semitic abuse which is now par for the course for anyone identified as a Jew on social media, almost always from people who express their support for Jeremy Corbyn.

In response, he has tried, tried and tried again to save the party he loves by demanding its leadership confronts this.

All to no avail. Is it any wonder his language was strident?

Nothing better illustrates why he is so angry at what is happening to the Labour Party than its response to his Mail on Sunday article. Instead of asking why a man who has spent his entire life serving the party should feel as he does, the party has suspended him.

That is a shocking message that everyone concerned with decency in politics should note.

Labour has shown that it is now, quite simply, an indecent party that punishes those who attempt to prevent that indecency.

Jeremy Corbyn protests that he has attempted to tackle anti-Semitism. He says repeatedly that he instigated the report by Shami Chakrabarti, as if that demonstrates his bona fides.

But no one is taken in by any of this charade any more.

Ms Chakrabarti is now a widely discredited figure, joining the Labour Party on the day she started her supposedly ‘independent’ report and then accepting a peerage from Mr Corbyn. She has been exposed as nothing more than a spokeswoman for Labour’s hard left leader.

The Chief Rabbi Ephraim Mirvis put it well: ‘The credibility of her report lies in tatters and the Labour Party’s stated intention, to unequivocally tackle anti-Semitism, remains woefully unrealised.’

As for Jeremy Corbyn’s commitment to tackling anti-Semitism: all one needs to know is that two weeks ago the Labour leader chose to share a platform with Jackie Walker. Ms Walker, you may recall, was suspended from the party for writing that Jews were the ‘chief financiers of the sugar and slave trade’.

As vice-chairman of Momentum, Ms Walker is a significant figure. It might have sent a powerful message had Labour decided that a woman with such views about Jews – historical bunkum, it should be said – was not welcome in the party.

Instead, it lifted her suspension – which sent a very different but no less powerful message. And then Mr Corbyn chose to address a Momentum rally two weeks ago, speaking alongside her.

Not that anyone should be surprised that the Labour leader keeps unsavoury company: in the past he has appeared alongside Hamas and Hezbollah representatives and referred to them as ‘friends’.

But the real story here is that Jeremy Corbyn’s Labour Party has now consciously decided that when a Jew points out that a cancer has taken hold, it should be the Jew, not the cancer, that is purged.

It seems scarcely possible that such a thing should be possible in the 21st Century, let alone in a party that once proudly fought prejudice.