http://www.express.co.uk/news/uk/719885/Syria-civil-war-Andrew-Mitchell-says-NATO-planes-must-police-no-fly-zone-against-Russia
111
11
GETTY Andrew Mitchell said the RAF should be used to confront Moscow’s aircraft

Andrew Mitchell said the RAF should be used to confront Moscow's aircraft in the skies above Syria - downing them if necessary to prevent civilians being bombed in towns such as Aleppo. He brushed aside concerns that firing at a Russian jet could spark a new world war, saying the UK's involvement should be limited to defensive action only. The former international development secretary used the example of Turkey downing a Russian fighter jet which veered into its airspace last year to show how a strong defensive posture would fire a warning shot at the Russians without provoking full-blown conflict.

He said NATO jets - including a British contingent - should be used to police the skies and enforce a no-fly zone. Parts of Syria have come under daily aerial attack from government and Russian bombers. Speaking this morning, Mr Mitchell told BBC Radio 4: "What we are saying is very clear. No one wants to see a firefight with Russia, no one wants to shoot down a Russian plane. "But what we do say is that the international community has an avowed responsibility to protect and that protection must be exerted. "If that means confronting Russian airpower defensively, on behalf of the innocent people on the ground who we are trying to protect, then we should do that."

Aleppo under siege Thu, October 13, 2016 *WARNING GRAPHIC CONTENT* Devastating pictures showing the aftermath of the Syrian explosions. Play slideshow AMC 1 of 19 Young Syrian boy Omran Daqneesh, aged five, was injured during airstrikes in Aleppo

As tensions between the West and Moscow continue to mount over Vladimir Putin's support for Syrian leader Bashar Assad, Mr Mitchell added: "It's not a declaration of war against Russia but it is an absolute declaration that we will seek to protect the innocent victims of these war crimes." Asked if British aircraft would be involved in his plan for a no-fly zone, he replied: "I think that Britain should explore with its allies how it would enforce a no-fly zone. "It is clearly not something we can do on our own but as part of a coalition of the willing to confront this appalling catastrophe we should certainly be willing to explore that and implement it if we are able to do so."

GETTY He said NATO jets - including a British contingent - should be used to police the skies in Syria

GETTY Russian jets returning from Syria