http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3782671/Texas-mattress-company-closes-indefinitely-9-11-Twin-Tower-sale-ad.html
112
11
The owner of a Texas mattress store has closed his store after apologizing for what he called a 'tasteless' advertisement promoting a 9/11 anniversary sale.

The online ad for Miracle Mattress in San Antonio featured a woman screaming as two towers of mattresses topple.

In a statement posted to the store's social media on Friday, owner Mike Bonanno said the store 'will be closed indefinitely.'

Scroll down for video

The owner of a Texas mattress store has closed his store after apologizing for what he called a 'tasteless' commercial (pictured) promoting a 9/11 anniversary sale

In a statement posted to the store's social media on Friday (shown above), owner Mike Bonanno said the store 'will be closed indefinitely'

He said the company also 'will be silent through the 9/11 anniversary to avoid any further distractions from a day of recognition and remembrance for the victims and their families.'

He repeated his Thursday apology, saying the online ad was produced without his knowledge by employees in San Antonio.

Bonanno said he will announce next week 'accountability actions' taken with the employees responsible for the ad.

The closure comes after the company was forced to apologize after issuing the 9/11 promotional video offering a 'Twin Tower sale' that caused a firestorm online and sparked death threats against employees, according to Fox News.

'We are not hate, we are love. We are somebody that stands out,' Cherise Bonanno, manager of the store and Mike Bonnano's daughter, told News 4 San Antonio on Thursday as she spoke through tears.

'We're Miracle Mattress, we make miracles happen.

'For our lives to be in danger, that's no what we ever wanted.'

She added: 'It was stupid, it was a stupid idea that we sent out and we apologize for our stupidity and we really hope that you forgive us for what we have done.'

On Friday, Facebook users remained baffled by the company's decision to release the video.

Cherise Bonanno (pictured left and in the commercial, right), manager of the store and Mike Bonnano's daughter, said for employees lives to be in danger is not what they wanted

'In all seriousness, how did NOBODY speak up during the inception of this ad and say it was a bad idea? Every single one of us does stupid stuff on a regular basis, but you would think somewhere between the inception of this idea and the execution that SOMEONE would have said "hey guys, I may be the new guy here, but maybe this is not the best idea,"' Seth Chambers wrote.

Others raised questions as to whether the owner's daughter would be fired.

'Yup. Wise to close. The backlash of this is significant,' Kirsty F. Macintyre wrote.

'Have you fired your daughter yet? Anyone else would have done so by now.

'She's destroyed your business. Hire professional staff, make a stand. Family or not. Do the right thing, and you just might succeed, and receive forgiveness.'

The company had produced the video showing two employees collapsing into a stack of mattresses pretending to be terror victims.

Cherise Bonanno says in the clip: 'What better way to remember 9/11 than with a Twin Tower sale?'

After shouting: 'Store-wide sale all day long,' two men behind the woman collapse onto a stack of mattresses in simulation of the Twin Towers terrorist attack.

She then shouts: 'Oh my God!' before looking into the camera and saying: 'We'll never forget.'

On Thursday, Mike Bonanno apologized in a letter posted to social media.

Miracle Mattress, based in San Antonio, Texas, posted the video showing two employees collapsing into a stack of mattresses pretending to be terror victims on Facebook

Cherise Bonanno (centre), manager of the store, says in the clip: 'What better way to remember 9/11 than with a Twin Tower sale?'

After shouting: 'Store-wide sale all day long,' two men behind the woman collapse onto a stack of mattresses in simulation of the Twin Towers terrorist attack

He said: 'The video is tasteless and an affront to the men and women who lost their lives on 9/11.

'Furthermore, it disrespects the families who lost their loved ones and continue to struggle with the pain of this tragedy every day of their lives.

'All I can say is I am deeply sorry and on behalf of the entire Miracle Mattress family, I accept responsibility for this thoughtless and crude advertisement and will immediately hold my employees accountable for this serious lapse of decency.'

The businessman added: 'Effective immediately, Miracle Mattress will review our entire marketing strategy to ensure a stringent approval process will be in place to stop this from every happening again.

'We will also engage a personnel review to hold these employees accountable for their actions.'

The video has drawn widespread outrage from viewers online

The owner of the business (pictured) Mike Bonanno apologized in a letter posted to social media

Before announcing their closure, the company had said on Thursday that they would be donating 30 per cent of their sales this weekend to the 9/11 Foundation.

The video drew widespread outrage from viewers online.

John Lazar, a volunteer firefighter in New York, said: 'I am truly horrified. Your actions have proven to me that you have forgotten.

'The terror of that day was never felt by you or anyone who worked on that commercial or even came up with the idea of a sale gimmick on that day.'

Joe Rios said: 'This makes me and countless other Americans sick.'

On Thursday, Mike Bonanno apologized in a letter posted to social media (shown above), calling the video 'tasteless and an affront to the men and women who lost their lives on 9/11'

Twitter user Random Things said: 'What a disgusting way to try to make money' while TrueAmerican said: 'This is so disrespectful! Shame on you!'

The offensive clip comes just days after a Walmart in Florida came faced criticism for also using 9/11 as a promotional stunt.

A display in the store saw boxes of Coca-Cola stacked into an American flag behind a representation of the Twin Towers.

A Walmart spokesman said Coca-Cola had approached the retailer with the idea.

Walmart bosses decided to take down the display after the social media backlash.

In 2014 an Alabama clothing company requested 2,296 retweets, one for each person who had lost their life in the attack.