http://finance.yahoo.com/news/hyatt-regency-brand-debuts-uzbekistan-143500269.html
111
11
CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--

Hyatt Hotels Corporation (NYSE:H) today announced the opening of Hyatt Regency Tashkent, the first Hyatt-branded hotel in Uzbekistan. The opening of Hyatt Regency Tashkent further expands Hyatt’s brand presence throughout Central Asia and significantly enriches its authentic and diversified brand experiences for guests.

This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161011006180/en/

“We are delighted to welcome the first Hyatt-branded hotel to Uzbekistan’s capital city,” said Peter Fulton, group president – Europe, Africa and Middle East, Hyatt. “Hyatt Regency Tashkent has been thoughtfully designed to make guests feel welcome and comfortable so that they can socialize, connect and celebrate any occasion.”

Hyatt Regency Tashkent offers guests easy access to local landmarks and tourist attractions, including the National Library, Chorsu Bazaar, Amir Temur Museum, and Mustaqillik Square. Additionally, business travelers will be in close proximity to nearby government offices, embassies and numerous corporate offices.

“It is extremely exciting to welcome guests to the first Hyatt Regency hotel in Uzbekistan,” said Puneet Tandon, area vice president and general manager, Hyatt Regency Tashkent. “The opening of Hyatt Regency Tashkent will provide authentic service and superior facilities that cater to business travelers, leisure guests and groups of all sizes.”

Guestrooms

With 300 guestrooms, including 52 suites, Hyatt Regency Tashkent offers bright, spacious accommodations with floor-to-ceiling windows that are elegantly decorated with contemporary furniture and locally inspired artwork. Each guestroom has a generous workspace with an ergonomic chair and charging station; bathrooms feature a soothing walk-in rain shower with separate bathtub. Regency Club rooms and suites include access to the Regency Club lounge on the sixth floor, serving complimentary continental breakfast, as well as evening cocktails and hors d'oeuvres.

Authentic Culinary Experiences

The restaurants at Hyatt Regency Tashkent build off Hyatt’s history of culinary excellence.

Sette Pizza Bistro and Bar offers an authentic Italian pizza in a vibrant atmosphere with rooftop dining featuring skyline views of Tashkent.

Khiva Café, an all-day dining restaurant, is located on the hotel’s ground floor and offers guests international breakfast items and local specialities. Lunch and dinner menus feature authentic Uzbek and Central Asian cuisine.

Chai Lounge features freshly brewed coffee, a wide selection of teas and delicious pastries and bakery items.

Guests can also enjoy a lively bar on the seventh floor, which features a DJ-mixing table and an outdoor terrace that provides a selection of shisha flavors. Open to guests beginning late afternoon, the bar serves a variety of cocktails and after dinner offerings.

Event Venues

Hyatt Regency Tashkent is the perfect venue for a variety of events such as weddings, social banquets, exhibitions, meetings, and conferences in the heart of Uzbekistan’s capitol. With more than 12,900 square feet (1,200 square meters) of flexible meeting and event facilities, including a more than 6,400 square foot (600 square meter) ballroom, the hotel provides thoughtfully designed multifunctional spaces with high-tech audiovisual and lighting solutions.

For more information, please visit www.tashkent.regency.hyatt.com.

The term “Hyatt” is used in this release for convenience to refer to Hyatt Hotels Corporation and/or one or more of its affiliates.

ABOUT HYATT REGENCY

The Hyatt Regency brand prides itself on connecting travelers to who and what matters most to them. More than 168 conveniently located Hyatt Regency urban and resort locations in over 30 countries around the world serve as the go-to gathering space for every occasion – from efficient business meetings to memorable family vacations. The brand offers a one-stop experience that puts everything guests need right at their fingertips. Hyatt Regency hotels and resorts offer a full range of services and amenities, including notable culinary experiences; technology-enabled ways to collaborate; the space to work, engage or relax; and expert planners who can take care of every detail. For more information, please visit www.hyattregency.com.

Read More