http://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-3831778/Australia-s-Model-contestants-forced-embrace-transformation-home-tears-shed-makeover-week.html
110
11
It's the most dramatic and exciting round of any season - makeover week.

And Tuesday night's episode of Australia's Next Top Model was no different, with the Top 10 contestants transformed through extreme hair cuts and drastic dye jobs before posing in a photo shoot to secure their spot in the competition.

While some welcomed the change, others like Daisy Davies broke down in tears at the thought of a snip.

Scroll down for video

'Suck it up': Makeover week on Tuesday's episode of Australia's Next Top Model saw plenty of tears and tantrums as the girls were transformed

However, her meltdown wasn't met with the sympathy she may have expected, with mentor Cheyenne Tozzi telling her: 'I think you're just crying for no reason. There are bigger things in the world to cry about chook.'

The girls were first introduced to celebrity hairdresser Joey Scandizzo as they stood in a mirror-less salon.

'I think it's important not to stress. We're only here to make you guys look better than you already are and get you guys booked on bigger and better jobs,' he assured the contestants before their makeovers began.

Kassidy Ure, 19, admitted she'd been a long-time fan of the series and knows what to expect from the 'best' part of the show.

'Crying for no reason': Daisy Davies' (right) meltdown about having her blonde locks cut wasn't met with sympathy by mentor Cheyenne Tozzi (left)

She was then told that she'd be getting 'the big chop' as host Jennifer reassured her that the change would 'give [her] more versatility within the industry.'

Kassidy remained excited despite fear of the unknown creeping in.

Meanwhile, 19-year-old Daisy Davies let out a huge sigh before she was even told what her makeover would entail.

Star treatment: The girls' makeovers were helmed by celebrity hairdresser Joey Scandizzo (right)

Anticipation: 19-year-old Kassidy Ure was told she would be getting the most dramatic hair cut out of all the girls

'I don't like changing my look. I'm not happy,' she told the camera.

Jennifer reminded the Sydney-based blonde that she came close to being eliminated last week and needs the opportunity to redeem herself.

'Daisy, last week, you came close to going home. So you really need to stand out. So you're going shorter,' the former Miss Universe declared.

Emotional: While Kassidy was initially excited for her change, she later broke down in tears when it came time to cut her locks

Belinda Kosorok, 18, was told she'd be trading in her brunette curls for red locks, while Christy Baker, 17, and Vitoria Triboni, 25, were going to be sporting darker hair.

Daisy was overcome with emotion as she confided in mentor Cheyenne.

'How am I going to be confident if I hate what I look like? And even this [hair] for me is not even long and I'm so proud of this,' she sobbed. 'I'd rather go and still feel like me.'

Positive attitude: Some of the girls, including Belinda Kosorok, were pleasantly surprised by their new looks

'That's up to you to decide how far you want to take your career. But I think that you'd be silly not to trust us,' Cheyenne responded.

Jessie, 21, was 'upset' when she was told her Rapunzel-like locks were going to be transformed with a blunt fringe.

The brunette admitted she saw her tresses as a sentimental connection to her late father because he'd always loved the look.

Before and after: Jessie Andrewartha was 'upset' at the thought of cutting her hair, but ended up loving her edgy new fringe afterwards

But she finally came to terms with the inevitable chop, admitting: 'My father would be more proud of me for remaining strong and not breaking down about a haircut.'

With no mirrors in the salon to give the girls any clue as to what they look like during the makeover process, the final reveal was an overwhelming experience for some.

Kassidy immediately broke down in tears as soon as she caught a glimpse of her peroxide blonde locks, which had been cut very short at the front and almost shaved at the back.

Challenge: Jessie, 21, looked confident as she posed in the photo shoot challenge with a group of bikers

Uncomfortable: Meanwhile, Daisy's apprehension about her hair showed in her face throughout the shoot

Jennifer consoled the teen, telling her: 'It's different. But this will launch you. Kassidy, you look gorgeous.'

Meanwhile, the contestant couldn't help but be apprehensive about her completely new look, telling the camera: 'It was heart-breaking. I was just freaking out. I don't feel like I can pull it off.'

With under 24 hours to come to terms with their makeovers whether they loved it or not, the girls were whisked away to a location for their photo shoot challenge.

Struggling: Jordan, who loved her makeover, let the harsh sunlight get the better of her on the day

They pulled up to Blacktown's Skyline Drive-In diner and were met with a bevy of leather-clad men with tattoos all over their bodies and faces.

Cheyenne greeted: 'You might have noticed we've invited a few friends,' as she pointed to several groups of people sitting throughout the diner, including punks, hipsters and bikers.

'Today, you have to embrace your new image and stand out amongst a group of intimidating characters.'

Tense: Despite her confidence in her new red locks, Belinda's nerves got in the way of a successful shoot

Natural: Aleyna, 16, had no problems working her angles with the bikers as she showcased her new style

Mourning for her long locks, pixie-haired Kassidy bawled as she opened up to mentors Jordan and Zac Stenmark.

'I try and be happy about it because I am so grateful to be here,' she told the twin male models.

'But it is so hard when it was only yesterday that I had my hair the way I've had it my whole life and then all of a sudden it's shaved off.'

Nailed it: Linnea exuded confidence and sex appeal as she posed for her shoot with the hipsters

Empathising with the contestant, Zac reassured her: 'You actually have this huge point of difference now in this competition to put you in the finale.'

Jessie impressed Cheyenne and photographer Max Doyle as she worked her angles confidently beside the bikers while rocking her new fringe.

Jordan struggled with the sun light shining in her eyes as she tried to work her new hairstyle while posing with the punks.

Work it: Sabine Jamieson, 17, was unsure about having her beachy locks trimmed and coloured, but it worked out well for her in the shoot

Despite initially loving her ombre locks, the Sydney-based model let the environment get the better of her during the shoot.

Daisy's disdain of her new look showed on her face throughout the session and led to Cheyenne questioning her desire to be in the competition.

'Do you feel like you want to be here?' the top model asked.

Gorgeous: Kristy's lighter locks earned her one of the top scores of the challenge

New redhead Belinda strutted onto the set with new-found confidence, but it soon turned into nerves.

The teen's rocky session only gave her a disappointing 'two shots out of 100' according to mentor Cheyenne.

Vitoria, Aleyna, Linnea and Kristy all cruised through their shoots with glowing feedback from fellow contestants on set.

Tense: It was a roller coaster of emotions for Kassidy, who sobbed in front of mentors Jordan and Zac Stenmark before her shoot

Killing it: The pixie-haired teen completely embraced her grungy new look and did exceptionally well in the challenge

It was then the moment of truth for Kassidy as she made her way onto the set, sporting dark purple lipstick to match the rest of the shoot's punk aesthetics.

After being told by the photographer that he 'couldn't imagine' her with any other hair style, she got the confidence she needed to own the shoot.

Judge Megan Gale was absent for this week's elimination process, and Priscilla's General Manager Doll Wright joined the panel instead.

Honest: Guest judge Doll Wright was brutally honest when it came to sharing her modelling industry wisdom with the girls

And the booking agent didn't hold back as she shared her honest opinions with the girls and fellow judges.

'I'm bored and uninspired by that spiel you just gave,' Doll said of Daisy's complaints about her new hair.

'The confidence needs to come from within. The hair is just another element. You need to just embrace it,' she continued.

Jordan, who was stunned by the sun during the shoot, was ultimately sent home after her photo was unveiled, with Doll calling it a 'lazy' shot.