http://www.4-traders.com/DUNKIN-BRANDS-GROUP-INC-8507176/news/Dunkin-Brands-Dayton-area-s-newest-Dunkin-Donuts-to-open-tomorrow-23196681/
110
11
Oct. 11 --The Dayton area's sixth Dunkin' Donuts shop is poised to open tomorrow, Wednesday Oct. 12 .

The region's newest doughnut shop is at 1310 Woodman Drive just south of Linden Avenue in Riverside .

The 1,880-square-foot doughnut shop employs 45 and offers drive-through as well as dine-in service.

This is the fifth Dayton -area location launched by franchise owner Pat Gilligan , who is responsible for reinvigorating the Dunkin' Donuts brand in southwest Ohio . In less than three years, Gilligan has opened new Dunkin' Donuts shops in Sugarcreek Twp ., Springfield , Kettering , and Centerville .

Prior to Gilligan's franchise deal, Dunkin' Donuts ' once-robust presence in the Dayton area had shrunk to one location on Springboro Pike ( Ohio 741) near the Dayton Mall , which operates under separate franchise ownership.

>>RELATED:Free coffee at Dunkin' Donuts after every Cincinnati Bengals win

Gilligan told this news outlet in February that he plans to open two Dunkin' Donuts a year beyond this year in the Dayton region, in part because customer reaction to his first four Dayton -area shops has been strong. Plans for a Vandalia location fell through earlier this year after city officials there opposed the project. Gilligan also oversees Dunkin' Donuts franchises in the Cincinnati area.

"We've had a great reaction, sales are good, and customers like the product and convenience," he said.

There is no specific target number of locations or timetable to reach a certain number of stores.

"We don't have a ceiling. We'll just continue with our prudent expansion," Gilligan said.

Each new Dunkin' Donuts location represents about a $1 million investment not including the price of land, Gilligan said.

Historically a doughnut and coffee chain, Dunkin' Donuts has expanded its offerings in recent years to include frozen and iced beverages as well as bagels, muffins, breakfast sandwiches, bakery sandwiches and wraps. For a limited time, the chain is offering pumpkin-flavored coffee, donuts and muffins.

The hours of the new Riverside Dunkin' Donuts will be Monday through Saturday 5 a.m. to 8 p.m. , and Sunday 6 a.m. to 8 p.m.

___

(c)2016 the Dayton Daily News (Dayton, Ohio)

Visit the Dayton Daily News (Dayton, Ohio) at www.daytondailynews.com

Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.