http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3782889/British-aristocrat-s-son-went-school-Kate-Middleton-facing-life-Kenyan-jail-4-5million-cocaine-shipment-knew-drugs.html
112
11
It's thought the smugglers failed and the cocaine was not picked up

Investigators believe the stash should have been picked up in Valencia

The son of a British aristocrat is facing a lifetime in Kenyan prison over a drugs haul he knew nothing about, according to investigators.

Jack Marrian, 31, a sugar trader, was charged after police in the eastern port city of Mombasa seized 100 kilos of cocaine hidden in a sugar consignment ordered by his firm.

But U.S and Spanish investigators, who have tipped off Kenyan police, claim the drugs should have been picked up in Spain using a smuggling technique mastered by Columbian cartels.

Jack Marrian, 31, a sugar trader, pictured today, was charged last week after police in the eastern port city of Mombasa seized 100 kilos of cocaine hidden in a sugar consignment ordered by his firm

Mr Marrian, who was three years younger than the Dutchess of Cambridge at £30,000-a-year Marlborough College, is on bail awaiting trial over the shipment from Brazil.

An organised crime unit officer in Spain told The Times it should have been offloaded in Valencia and picked up by smugglers, but the operation failed.

'They do it without the knowledge of the companies transporting these goods.

'It has been popular method used by Colombian cartels

'We do not have a clear idea of who was waiting for this shipment to arrive in Spain, but it was certain that it was heading for Spain, not Kenya.

An organised crsaid the drugs should have been offloaded in Valencia and picked up by smugglers, but the operation failed

'For some reason it was not collected at Valencia.'

The technique is referred to as a 'blind hook' or a 'rip on, rip off' and involves smugglers hiding drugs inside other people's cargo and unloading their haul at a certain point in the journey without the carriers ever knowing it was there.

Spanish police attempted to search the containers on board the MSC Sonia, but four of the five containers - including the one with the cocaine - had already been loaded onto the boat.

Each container is sealed to clearly show if they have been opened during its transportation, but as well as the drugs, there was a spare seal in the stash.

Mr Marrian and his co-accused Kenyan clearing agent Roy Mwanthi deny the charges of smuggling a Class A drug on June 29.

A judge in Kenya has ruled that the son of a British aristocrat accused of trafficking £4.5million worth of cocaine should be released on a £530,000 bail.

Jack Marrian, 31, a sugar trader, was charged last week after police in the eastern port city of Mombasa seized 100 kilos of cocaine hidden in a sugar consignment ordered by his firm.

He is set to be tried by a court over what he claims is a tampered shipment from Brazil.

High Court judge Luka Kimaru ruled today that Marrian should be released on bail of £530,000 cash, with two Kenyan sureties of similar amount

High Court judge Luka Kimaru ruled last month Marrian should be released on bail of £530,000 cash, with two Kenyan sureties of similar amount.

He added that the prosecution had not provided compelling enough reasons to warrant the Briton being held in custody.

Marrian has protested his innocence since his arrest and his lawyer declared the courts have 'the wrong man'.

The defendant is the son of Lady Emma Clare Campbell of Cawdor, 58, the daughter of the late Hugh John Vaughan Campbell, the sixth Earl Cawdor, an artist and landowner.

The 31-year-old enjoyed a privileged upbringing in an affluent part of Nairobi and was educated at £35,280-a-year Marlborough College in the 1990s when the Duchess of Cambridge was a pupil.

His family's relationship with Kenya dates back decades, his lawyer said, as Marrian's grandfather had served as a minister in the colonial government just before independence in 1963.

His father David Marrian said he had spoken with his son every day since the arrest.

He said: 'I have no doubt that Jack will be exonerated.'

Jack Marrian's aristocratic family travelled to Kenya as a £530,000 bail bond was paid

The 31-year-old was charged on Thursday after police in the eastern port city of Mombasa seized 100 kilos (220 pounds) of cocaine hidden in a sugar consignment ordered by his firm

Magistrate Derrick Kuto said the Briton had to post a bond of 70 million shillings (£530,000) with two Kenyan sureties and must surrender his passport given the seriousness of the charge, which if convicted could see him face a life sentence

At a court hearing in early August, Magistrate Derrick Kuto said the Briton had to post a bond of 70 million shillings (£530,000) with two Kenyan sureties and must surrender his passport given the seriousness of the charge, which if convicted could see him face a life sentence.

Defence lawyer Sheetal Kapila said he believed the case was driven by the authorities' desire 'to stop Kenya being a transit point' for drugs, but added that 'it's the wrong man who's been picked up.'

'Unknown people have smuggled this drug into the consignment,' Kapila said.