https://article.wn.com/view/2016/10/11/Philippine_President_Duterte_Announces_Trips_To_Beijing_Mosc/
112
11
Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte said Tuesday he will move forward with his plans to visit China and Russia while criticizing the United States for “arrogance,” Agence France-Presse reported.

"China has repeatedly invited me. I have accepted the offer.” – Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte

While not specifying when the China visit will take place, Duterte said the trip will take place prior to his Oct. 25-27 visit to Japan, the report said.

The trip will be Duterte's first outside of Southeast Asia since assuming the presidency on June 30, signaling the importance he places on improving relations with Beijing had soured because of a territorial dispute in the South China Sea.

Duterte has looked to build closer ties with Russia as well as China, while launching repeated tirades against the U.S., the Philippines' former colonial ruler and defense ally, the report said.

Duterte gave a lengthy critique of the U.S., branding them as "arrogant" and powerless to stop Russia's seizure of Crimea from Ukraine.

His tirades have been largely in response to U.S. criticism of Duterte's war on crime, which has claimed more than 3,300 lives.

Since attaining office, Duterte has cancelled joint patrols with the US, said he may scrap a defense pact that allows thousands of US troops to rotate through the Philippines and threatened to eventually cut ties completely, the report said.

Duterte has branded U.S. President Barack Obama a "son of a whore" for expressing concern about human rights in the drug war.

In contrast, he has described Chinese leader Xi Jinping as "a great president", and praised China and Russia for showing respect in not criticizing his crackdown.





Related Tweets

"Eventually I might in my term, break up with America. I would rather go to Russia or to China. Even if we do not agree with their ideology, they have respect for the people. Respect is important," Duterte said this month.

The Philippines had long been regarded as one of Washington's most loyal allies in Asia, with the two nations bound by a mutual defense pact signed in 1951.

– WN.com, Jack Durschlag