http://www.khmertimeskh.com/news/30512/traffickers-get-long-sentences/
112
11
Three drug traffickers, including two Taiwanese nationals, who were arrested at a hotel in Phnom Penh in January with more than one kilogram of crystal methamphetamine, received sentences of between five years and life yesterday.



The Phnom Penh Municipal Court found Taiwanese national Kang Ching Chen, 48, guilty of drug trafficking and sentenced him in absentia to life in prison and a fine of 80 million riel, while his Cambodian girlfriend, Hang Jing Jing, 25, received 25 years and a 40 million riel (about $10,000) fine.



Li Yong Foo, known as Heng Soksan, 46, from Taiwan, received a five-year sentence and a fine of 20 million riel (about $5,000) fine for drug trafficking, and “use of an illegal weapon.”



Compatriot Tai Chhin Hshing, 43, had charges against him dropped.



Presiding judge Ros Piseth said all the accused would be able to appeal the verdicts.



“The accused have the right to dispute this court’s verdict and appeal it to the upper court within a period of 30 days, if they have not accepted the verdict,” he said.



“There was a no guilty verdict for Tai Chhin Hshing. The court decided to drop his charges and release him from the prison,” judge Piseth said.

He ordered police to continue to seek Mr. Kang so he can serve his sentence. During the trial last month, Lieutenant Colonel Preah Borey, deputy chief of Internal Security Police at the Ministry of Interior, said the four accused were active drug distributors.



“They often sold drugs to gamblers, who were drug users, at the casino below the NagaWorld Hotel,” he said.



“They were arrested on real evidence after they committed drug trafficking,” he added.



Lt. Col. Borey said Ms. Jing Jing was first arrested after attempting to bring a package of more than one kilogram of methamphetamine into the hotel.



Based on her confession, police arrested Mr. Tai and Mr. Li in their room. There they also found with 15.19 grams of ecstasy, 11.03 grams of cocaine and 3.55 grams of heroin, with police also confiscating seven mobile phones and an undisclosed amount of money.



Ms. Jing Jing claimed during her trial that the drugs belonged to her boyfriend, Mr. Kang, who had bought them from a Cambodian man named Rom and that she was simply delivering them.



“I will appeal the sentence to the Appeal Court,” she told Khmer Times yesterday outside the courtroom. The other two defendants declined to comment.