http://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-3824425/Georgia-Love-compares-Richie-Strahan-brags-needing-film-one-kissing-scenes.html
111
11
It's no secret that many of the scenes featured on the Bachelorette are edited in a way that reflects a certain story-line.

But when it comes to kissing scenes, Georgia Love has revealed that her performances are anything but rehearsed.

Speaking to KIIS FM's Kyle and Jackie O on Thursday, the 27-year-old compared herself to former Bachelor Richie Strahan, who had to re-do kissing scenes for the cameras.

Scroll down for video

Was Richie a bad kisser? Speaking to KIIS FM's Kyle and Jackie O on Thursday, Georgia Love compared herself to former Bachelor Richie Strahan, who had to re-do kissing scenes for the cameras

'I don't know if Richie's was different to me, but [kissing] was actually very organic,' she said.

'It was, especially on the single dates, like they want to actually get what's real as much as they can. So they very much just sit back and let it happen,' Georgia later added.

When quizzed about her love life prior to The Bachelorette, Georgia also confirmed that she had never indulged in a casual tryst, saying: 'I've never had a one night stand. I'm happy to say that.'

Throwing shade: 'I don't know if Richie's was different to me, but [kissing] was actually very organic,' she said

Taking another jab: In an interview with OK! magazine last month, Georgia revealed that, unlike Richie, she wasn't just into 'all blondes'

It's not the first time Georgia has taken a jab at her predecessor Richie.

In an interview with OK! magazine last month, Georgia revealed that, unlike Richie, she wasn't just into 'all blondes'.

Indeed, throughout the Bachelor it became increasingly obvious that Richie only had eyes for women with fair hair.

She's loving it! Meanwhile, Georgia has been lapping up the attention of her band of handsome suitors as she searches for love on The Bachelorette

By the time he reached the Bachelor's semi-final episode, Richie had successfully eliminated every brunette in the competition.

Meanwhile, Georgia has been lapping up the attention of her band of handsome suitors as she searches for love on The Bachelorette.

On Wednesday night's episode, Georgia enjoyed an ice-skating rendezvous with fair-haired Clancy, who made sure to seal the deal with a kiss at the end of the romantic outing.