http://nation.com.pk/national/15-Oct-2016/imran-condemns-pml-n-s-governance-style
111
11
ISLAMABAD - Chairman PTI Imran Khan yesterday condemned the style of governance of the ruling PML-N what he said that this has been the hallmark of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif's rule every time he has come to power.



Sheltering behind a facade of democracy, Nawaz Sharif's sole purpose while being in power has been personal aggrandizement and the building up of his business empire, Khan said in a statement

The recent judgment of the LHC against Sharif's defiance of a ban on setting up new sugar mills in cotton growing areas of Punjab shows how the Sharif family have always seen themselves against laws of the land.



The ban on setting up of new sugar mills in cotton growing areas was upheld by the SC but in a bid to circumvent this ban purely to facilitate the Sharif family sugar mills, the Punjab government notified a "relocation of sugar mills policy".

"This reflected the Badshahat (monarch) style of governance of the Sharif's where CM Shahbaz Sharif makes a policy defying the law to benefit businessmen of his family," he said.



Luckily for the nation, the LHC, where this notification was challenged, overturned the Punjab government's policy meant to serve Sharif family's business interests, he said.

Imran Khan pointed out that amongst the main points of LHC judgment were that the notification was a deliberate means to create a mechanism to circumvent the ban and it also prejudiced national interest.

The LHC judgment also reminded: "public officers are trustees of public funds and public property and are expected to take decisions based on public interest".



The LHC questioned whether "the relocation policy was issued for national interest or personal interest?" And it concluded: "In this case, the relocation policy has not benefited the national interest but is aimed to facilitate certain sugar mills which happen to be owned by the families of the Chief Minister Punjab and the Prime Minister of Pakistan".

This was a categorical condemnation of the Sharifs' badshahat-style of governance.



The LHC went further and stated in its judgment: "The decision-making process in this case was not initiated in national interest or public interest.

The process was initiated to protect certain business interests at the expense of national interest and public interest".



Khan said that in a stinging critique of the personalized monarchical style of the Sharifs' governance, the LHC judgment added: "The matter does not end here, the Govt.

not only designed a policy to cater to a few sugar mills but it also failed to take action against the respondent sugar mills for establishing new sugar mills without any permission".



Khan asserted that the Panama Papers have revealed the Sharif's corruption, tax evasion and hiding of assets.

The courts are increasingly giving judgments against the Sharifs' Badshahat-style of governance for personal benefits.

It is time the Sharifs presented themselves for accountability or resigned from their public offices.

