http://classic.iol.co.za/news/south-africa/kwazulu-natal/durban-tenants-furious-after-flat-is-wrapped-up-again-1.2079976
111
11
Some tenants of a block of flats in the Durban city centre are up in arms after a giant canvas advertisement was wrapped around their building - for the second time in four months.

Landlords of Tasnim Centre on Bertha Mkhize Street allowed a wraparound advertisement on the building to go up last week. But tenants the Daily News spoke to complained it not only prevented fresh air from flowing into their flats, but was causing health problems.

After a wraparound was taken down in the wake of a Daily News report in June, tenants said they were shocked when another went up recently.

But those behind the wraparound say they have tenant approval, and that adjustments to it have addressed grievances. They showed a petition for it comprising 22 signatures.

The advertisement stretches from the sixth floor to the 12th, a residential section. The lower units are for businesses.

The Daily News visited the building yesterday and spoke to residents who complained of a lack of fresh air and “feeling stuffy”. Some claimed the canvas was causing chest problems for their children.

None wanted their names published because they feared reprisal. There are several foreigners among them.

The building is owned by MHT Investments. A director of MHT, Hassen Paruk, said they leased the building to an outdoor advertising company.

He referred queries to Ishaan Maharaj of the advertising company, Engineering Ingenuity, who requested questions via e-mail.

“This advert has made our life a misery,” one resident said yesterday. “We just cannot breath. We pay R4 000 a month for a one bedroom flat and despite this we have no rights.

The owners do what they want and treat us like they want because they are South African and we are foreigners.

“They are rich and have lawyers, we are foreigners and have no rights. How can any fresh air come into a flat when the advert goes over all the windows? People are being exploited because we don’t speak English or we don’t know where to go for help,” he said.

Another resident said some children had developed coughs since the advertisement went up again.

“These illnesses were here the first time, and went when they took the advert down. Now the advert goes up and the coughs start again. But what can we do?” she asked.

Sayed Iqbal Mohamed, chairman of the Organisation of Civic Rights, who has taken on the issue on behalf of the residents, said it appeared that the city’s planning department had granted authorisation for the advert.

“Clearly, the canvas wraparound poses a health risk and the health department would not have given permission. This raises suspicion about how departments operate. What is emerging from repeated offenders of the city’s by-laws, is the urgent need for inter-departmental measures to be implemented.

“The city departments and officials need to co-ordinate their affairs, talk to each other, especially when one section needs to verify with another. We will look at our options on behalf of the tenants as soon as we receive an official communication from the city. We will take legal action if there is any attempt to victimise the tenants,” he said.

Ethekwini head of communications, Tozi Mthethwa, said the city would not grant permission for such an advert to be placed if it compromised people’s health.

“An inspector will be sent to the site to investigate, and if found to be in contravention, a notice will be issued to have the advert removed. The city’s health department is also investigating complaints that ventilation is affected as a result of the advert. The findings of both investigations will determine the necessary course of action,” she said.

A canvas advertisement has been wrapped around a building in the city centre, causing the ire of some residents who complain it is preventing fresh air from flowing into their homes.

Daily News

IOL News on Facebook

IOL on Twitter

Get our free IOL newsletters - subscribe here...