http://www.india.com/news/world/world-community-rallies-behind-india-after-uri-attack-1498675/
111
11
New Delhi, Sep 19: The global community today stood behind India in its hour of loss following the Uri attack which claimed the lives of 18 army personnel, with the UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon saying the perpetrators would be brought to justice. France and Canada also condemned the attack and said they stand with India in the fight against terrorism, as international denunciation continued to pour in against the brazen assault carried out by suspected Pakistan-based terrorists of Jaish-e-Mohammed.

France also called for peaceful settlement of disputes in Kashmir. In a statement, UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon asserted that the perpetrators of the attack would be brought to justice and all stakeholders would meet their responsibilities to maintain peace and stability. “France most firmly condemns the terrible terrorist attack perpetrated on 18 September against an Indian army camp in the region of Kashmir. It conveys its condolences to the families of the 17 Indian soldiers killed in this attack.(ALSO READ: Another jawan succumbs to injuries,Uri attack toll rises to 18)

“France remains at India’s side in the combat against terrorism. It calls on every State to fight effectively against terrorist groups operating on their territory or from their territory against other countries,” it said. France also recalls the importance it attaches to bringing calm and the peaceful settlement of disputes in the region of Kashmir, a French Foreign Ministry statement said. Condemning the militant attack on an army camp, the UN Secretary General hoped the perpetrators of the crime would be brought to justice and re-establishing stability and preventing any further loss of life will be the priority of “all involved”.

Acting High Commissioner for Canada to India Jess Dutton strongly condemned the terrorist attack and said,”The Government of Canada extends condolences to the victims and their families. “We are appalled by these attacks and stand with the Government of India in the fight against terrorism,” he added. The US and UK had also condemned the attack yesterday.