http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/mumbai/Finn-dates-two-on-app-and-absconds-booked-for-rape/articleshow/54664526.cms
112
11
MUMBAI: A 29-year-old Jharkhand woman recently lodged a complaint with the Bandra police against a 55-year-old Finnish national, who absconded after flying to Bangkok, after claiming that he wanted to bring his clothes before marrying her last month.Cairo Haikel befriended the victim through a dating mobile app three months ago and was in a relationship after promising to marry her since March. He also had relationship with another 34-year-old woman from Borivli , whom he befriended through same app at the same time. Police are completing the procedure for a lookout circular for him.The suspect has been booked under Indian Penal Code sections for cheating, rape , criminal intimidation and wrongful restraint.Two cases have been registered against Haikel on September 26 and 27 by the victims from Borivli and Jharkhand. The suspect, a sales manager with a multinational company in Singapore, had come down on an official visit. "He lured both with a lavish lifestyle, and took them out on dates to five-star and seven-star hotels here. He got into the relationships with both since March, on the pretext of marrying. But last month, the Borivli woman walked into the Bandra flat and fought with the victim," a police officer said.Haikel convinced the Borivli victim to pay her Rs 13 lakh, and gave her a Rs 1 lakh advance. She warned him that she would lodge a complaint if he did not pay her by September. Meanwhile, Haikel left Mumbai on September 10, after convincing the Jharkhand woman that he would return soon for marriage. The Jharkhand woman said in her complaint, "I fell for his sweet talk after he contacted me on the dating app in January. He made me leave my job at a marriage event management firm. I came down in March and stayed with Haikel, who claimed he was here on an official visit. He received me at the airport."When there was no trace of Haikel, the Borivli woman first complained to the Bandra police on September 26 and the next day the Jharkhand woman followed.