http://indianexpress.com/article/india/india-news-india/madras-high-court-permits-rss-to-take-out-route-marches-next-month-3063808/
1123
11
The court said the RSS cadres should not indulge in any unlawful activities during the rallies and not raise any slogans that will affect the sentiments of others, adding, police could impose any other condition required as per law. The court said the RSS cadres should not indulge in any unlawful activities during the rallies and not raise any slogans that will affect the sentiments of others, adding, police could impose any other condition required as per law.

Imposing conditions, the Madras High Court on Monday permitted the RSS to take out ‘route marches’ at 14 places in Tamil Nadu next month after its counsel submitted it would take out processions on November 6 or 13 instead of this month in view of the civic polls in the state. The court said the RSS cadres should not indulge in any unlawful activities during the rallies and not raise any slogans that will affect the sentiments of others, adding, police could impose any other condition required as per law.

Allowing the RSS plea, the court also said the cadres must maintain ‘dress code’ (full pant) during processions. RSS had moved the court after its representations to the respective police and district administrations for permission to conduct ‘route marches’ on October 9 to mark the 1000th birth anniversary of saint-philosopher Sri Ramanuja did not evoke any response.

Watch what else is making news:

They also planned to hold the marches in connection with the Vijayadashami festivities and 125th birth anniversary of B R Ambedkar. Police said permission cannot be granted as the state is scheduled to hold civic polls on October 17 and 19, and the situation is volatile after the murder of a Hindu Munnani leader in Coimbatore on September 22. The counsel for RSS had submitted that they would take out processions on November 6 or 13, the court said, adding, it could take out rallies on November 6 or 13 at 14 places.

Earlier, Assistant Inspector-General of police, Headquarters R Thirunavukkarasu sought dismissal of the plea, saying after the murder of Hindu Munnani activist Sasikumar in Coimbatore last month, public tranquility has been affected.

“The law enforcement machinery is completely overstretched to contain the volatile communal unrest in addition to maintaining public order in view of local body elections,” the counter affidavit said. “Police personnel have been deployed in sensitive areas work and hence the RSS request for processions cannot be considered at this stage. If permission is granted to conduct the processions under these circumstances, there is every possibility of outbreak of violence, causing grave danger to public life and property, which will lead to serious law and order situation,” it said.