https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/world-digest-aug-26-2016/2016/08/26/a2a2dd94-6b95-11e6-8225-fbb8a6fc65bc_story.html
111
11
Brazil

Ex-president charged amid protege’s trial

Brazilian police charged former president Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva with corruption and money laundering as his successor faces an impeachment trial expected to oust her permanently next week.

A spokesman for the federal police in Brasilia confirmed the charges Friday, and local media reported that they relate to a beach-side apartment in Sao Paulo state that Lula and his wife frequented.

Lula’s lawyers were not immediately available for comment. The 70-year-old former labor leader has repeatedly denied wrongdoing and said he is the victim of political persecution.

The charge against Lula comes before his planned appearance Monday at the impeachment trial of suspended president Dilma Rousseff in a show of support for the handpicked candidate he helped elect for the first time in 2010. A final vote on charges that Rousseff illegally financed government spending is expected on Tuesday or Wednesday.

Once the most popular president in Brazilian history, Lula is already being investigated for allegedly obstructing justice in the country’s Petrobras scandal. Last month Lula petitioned the United Nations over what he alleges to be violations of his human rights by Judge Sergio Moro, who heads Brazil’s largest corruption probe.

Moro earlier this year ordered Lula detained for questioning.

— Bloomberg News

ZIMBABWE

Anti-Mugabe protest violently quashed

Zimbabwean police used batons, tear gas and water cannons to crush an anti-government protest in the capital Friday, despite a court order that the demonstration should be permitted.

At least 50 people were injured by the police, said former vice president Joice Mujuru, now the head of the People First party and a participant in the demonstration.

“The people’s anger is very deep. Zimbabweans are beginning to say enough is enough,” another opposition leader, Morgan Tsvangirai, said at a news conference after the demonstration was dispersed.

Another anti-government demonstration will be held next Friday, according to the coalition of at least 18 opposition parties and civic organizations that organized Friday’s protest.

Friday’s protest, dubbed the “mega demonstration,” was the first time Zimbabwe’s fractured opposition joined in a single action to confront President Robert Mugabe’s government since 2007.

Home Affairs Minister Ignatius Chombo on Thursday accused Western countries of plotting the protests. Supporters of 92-year-old Mugabe, who

has ruled Zimbabwe since independence from white minority rule in 1980, say he should govern until he dies.

— Associated Press

Pistorius avoids longer prison term: A South African judge dismissed an appeal by prosecutors for a harsher sentence against Oscar Pistorius, who was found guilty of murder for killing his girlfriend in 2013. Judge Thokozile Masipa said the state’s appeal to extend the six-year sentence against the 29-year-old double amputee Olympic sprinter had a limited prospect of success. Pistorius claimed that he shot Reeva Steenkamp, 29, thinking she was an intruder, while the state argued that he shot her in anger after an argument.

Slovak premier urges E.U. to drop Russia sanctions: Slovak Prime Minister Robert Fico renewed his call for the European Union to end sanctions against Russia after meeting with President Vladimir Putin in Moscow, saying they had failed to influence the settlement of any key issues. Slovakia, which holds the rotating E.U. presidency, will host a meeting of the bloc’s foreign ministers next week, with some Central European countries expressing unease over the continuing sanctions on Russia.

Nicaragua confirms its first Zika-linked microcephaly case: Nicaragua has confirmed its

first case of a baby born with microcephaly linked to the

Zika virus, authorities said. The mosquito-borne virus was first detected in Brazil last year. where it has been linked to

more than 1,800 cases of microcephaly, a severe brain abnormality, and has since spread across the Americas and the Caribbean.

Toronto man charged in crossbow killings: Brett Ryan, 35, of Toronto, was charged with first-degree murder in the deaths of three people who had suffered what appeared to be crossbow wounds. The slayings shocked a quiet residential neighborhood in the city’s east end when they were discovered Thursday.

— From news services