http://www.standardmedia.co.ke/article/2000220716/you-have-failed-kerio-residents-raila-tells-jubilee-over-cattle-rustling-and-killings
112
11


Updated Sun, October 23rd 2016 at 00:00 GMT +3

Women and children take refuge at the caves in the Kerio Valley escarpment for fear of attack by cattle rustlers from the Pokot raiders, 15 people have been killed in the last two months Photo by Fred Kibor

CORD leader Raila Odinga has faulted the Jubilee administration for failure to tame cattle rustling in Kerio Valley.

He regretted that the menace is threatening to reverse gains made in the region over the past decade.

The former Prime Minister said schools have been closed, children orphaned, the elderly have fled their homes while farms have been abandoned.

“I wish to draw the attention of President Uhuru Kenyatta and the Jubilee administration, to the carnage and lawlessness that has gone on in the Kerio Valley since May, between the Pokot and the Marakwet and which is getting intense with each passing day. Children are being orphaned and the elderly fleeing their homes. Life has come to a stand still for the people while the Government remains silent,” Raila said.

In a statement issued from London, the CORD leader accused the national government of failing to provide security in the area.

“Security agencies on the ground seem incapable, immobilised and unwilling to provide the much-needed support and are content with just supervising the anarchy. It is our hope that the national government has not given up also on providing security to our citizens,” Raila said.

He added: “The President cannot afford to give up on a role that is distinctly his, of providing security to all Kenyans in every part of the country. We need a firm, fair and honest hand of the national government in Kerio Valley with immediate effect.”

He challenged leaders from the Pokot and Marakwet communities to break their silence and speak against cattle rustling.

“I recognise that on their own, the two communities have done all they can to bring peace to themselves through their elders, community-based organisations, youth and women groups. I appeal to the two communities to keep pushing for peaceful co-existence,” Raila added.

He noted: “I also appeal to the two communities to appreciate themselves as victims of years of State neglect, massacres and marginalisation. They should therefore stop fighting each other and instead jointly confront the national government with demands for their rightful share of development and compensation as recommended by the Truth, Justice and Reconciliation Commission.”

Yesterday, young professionals from Marakwet demanded resignation of National Assembly chairman for Committee on Administration and National Security and Tiaty MP Asman Kamama, accusing him of taking sides on cattle rustling.

Led by the chairman of the National Council of NGOs Stephen Cheboi, the professionals said banditry in Kerio Valley has caused insecurity and poverty and displacement of families.