http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/dhaka-attack-varsity-teacher-hasnat-karim-has-been-named-as-main-accused/1/740128.html
112
11
Bangladeshi court today extended the remand of a British national by eight days and a Canadian citizen by six days for their alleged involvement in the Dhaka cafe attack last month that killed 22 people, including an Indian girl.

47-year-old Hasnat Reza Karim a teacher of North South University has been the named as the prime accused of Dhaka attacks. His lawyer Mahbubul Alam Dulal sought cancellation Hasnat's remand. The court overruled the order.The police filed a case under the terrorism act against an unknown number of people , two days after the attack.

HASNAT HARASSED IN CUSTODY

Hasnat was one of the rescued hostages on the day of the attack. He was questioned in a commando vehicle for his militant connection. After hearing an unsatisfactory answer, the police arrested him a month later and placed him in custody for 10 days which Monirul Islam, Chief of Counter terrorism unit confirmed.

The investigating officer Humayun Kabir sought custody for Tahmid Hasib Khan, the son of Fazle Rahim Khan Shahriar the Managing Director of Altaf Multipurpose Farms who was also arrested under section 54 and placed under police custody.

TAHMID BEING INTERROGATED

However, Tahmid, a permanent resident of Canada, has not yet been shown arrested for the cafe attack in the heart of Dhaka's diplomatic enclave.

The 11-hour standoff ended after commandos stormed into the cafe and killed the hostage-takers.

When asked for clues, the police remained mum. The detectives doubted his etiquette and the relationship he had with his former NSU student Nibrash Islam. The detectives were suspicious of his movements during the attack.

DHAKA ATTACK AFTERMATH

32 people along with 13 rescued from Holey Artisan Bakery were brought to Detective Branch a day after the attack. After interrogating all the witnesses, all were let go with the exception of 2. Hasnat and Tahmid did not return to their families. Their families confirmed this.

After the Gulshan attack many people posted their opinions on social media about the Hasnat and Tahmid's militant connection. A number of Facebook users quoted from mass media stated ,Hasnat was sacked from NSU in 2012 for having connections with the banned militant outfit Hijbut Tahrir.

Though IS claimed responsibility of the attack and published photos of five militants in social media, police in Bangladesh claimed the militants were home-grown.

Also Read: Dhaka attack: Another Gulshan cafe attacker identified