https://www.yahoo.com/news/samsung-phones-exploding-don-t-222930877.html
111
11
If you’re one of the millions of people who bought a Samsung Galaxy Note 7, you’re walking around with a ticking time bomb in your pocket. Your amazing, super smartphone has a faulty battery pack that can spontaneously combust in a flash of smoke, searing heat, smashed glass, and bending metal. Your Note 7 could explode in your hands while you check Facebook, against your face during a phone call, or next to your bed while you sleep at night.

That’s pretty terrifying.

Related: Galaxy Note 7 Recall: How To Get A Refund or Exchange

You’re probably wondering where or how you should sign up to return your Note 7 or get a refund. Well, don’t ask Samsung. Although Samsung did issue a recall, it has been poorly organized, terribly communicated, and even more disastrously executed. Samsung finally called for an end to Note 7 sales and permanently halted production on October 10 — one month and 10 days after the first reports of exploding devices. Why did it take 40 days for Samsung to take the drastic measures required to protect its customers?

A long string of failures

At first, Samsung called on all Note 7 owners to return their phones immediately, but failed to offer much guidance on how to do so or what to do while you waited for a replacement Note 7, which might never arrive. U.S. carriers like Verizon, AT&T, Sprint, and T-Mobile stepped in to offer Note 7 buyers the option to replace their Note 7 phones with a Galaxy S7 or S7 Edge. Some even offered full refunds or exchanges for devices around the same price point. However, each carrier offered different options, so customers got a different story from everyone they talked to. Samsung wasn’t much more helpful, and the best you could do was a phone call to customer support.

Then came the Consumer Product Safety Commission with its full U.S. recall. The CPSC declared that Galaxy Note 7 owners could get a full refund or exchange and advised customers to go to the store where they bought the Note 7 to resolve the issue. Again, it wasn’t easy or clear for anyone and Samsung failed to step up.

Finally, Samsung set a date for the arrival of replacement Note 7 phones. Happy customers picked up the “safe” devices and went home. Then, the replacement phones started exploding.

As of October 10, Samsung, and every major U.S. carrier, has now ended sales of the Galaxy Note 7 and will no longer sell replacement Note 7 devices. You would think Samsung would stand up, apologize profusely, and shepherd its loyal customers through this dark time with clear communication, assistance, and replacement devices. It has not.

Samsung owes customers clear instructions, and an apology

The continued production, sale, and advertising of the Galaxy Note 7 for 40 days after the first explosion was indefensible. The fact that Samsung has yet to apologize to its customers properly or offer meaningful assistance in the return, refund, and exchange process is incomprehensible. It’s time to get serious, Samsung. Your reputation and the security of your most loyal users is at stake.

Related: Galaxy Note 7: Our guide to Samsung’s massive recall

I’m telling you this because I love the Note series. I loved the Note 7 most of all, and that’s what makes this loss so crushing. There are millions of people who feel the same, and you are letting us down. Here’s what you need to do.

Change the Galaxy Note 7 landing page into an apology letter — don’t just redirect it to your Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge promotion page. After all, Note customers are your most loyal fans, right? You built an empire off their love for your giant phablet series, so treat them with a scrap of respect. After you grovel publicly, include a call to action. Say, “We care about our customers’ safety, so we implore you to return your Note 7 today and get a Galaxy S7 Edge for free. Here is your shipping label.”

galaxy-note-7-recall More