http://www.standardmedia.co.ke/ureport/story/2000219282/call-them-divas-but-cheating-is-their-slogan
112
11
Some call them campus divas or trend setters. These are university female students are in the business of dating as many men as they can especially in this era of sponsors. They are slim, tall whether light skin or dark skin complexion.

As they move in different corners of university, their presence is felt. Most often they are in company of men. The funny thing is how they are more engrossed in cheating spree. A psychologist would think that they have psychological disorder but who knows.

In most cases they will never allow any man to overstay in her room, lest her cheating escapades will be unearthed. Her roommates would be on the losing end as they are often exiled the moment one of her boyfriends’ surfaces. Unfortunately, if the roommate is a staunch believer of a certain religion, will often curse the behavior as she will have spent more nights outside her room than her own room. In case the duo fails to agree one is forced to leave.

Men, who may have been duped to trust them, have been confronted by the harsh reality when they are shortchanged and forced to accept that it was lie. Take for instance John*, a third year at a local university who was forced to hide under bed, when her new catch let the bombshell, that her boyfriend was visiting unannounced. “I thought I was the lucky one to have her, but it was all lie, I was among many of her subscribers” notes Derrick. He further adds that he confronted her former girlfriend but she laughed him off branding him a ‘fool’.

Furthermore, some of these divas will shock you when you probe them on the habit. According to Tracy* a third year ecotourism student at a local university, the trend is a fashion and as a move not to be looked upon as archaic and old fashioned, she has to date many men. “That is fashion in campuses and colleges, maybe once I get married I will be faithful to my husband” she says. She further adds that the blame is on women yet men are also cheating at large.

However according to Dr. Peter Omaye, a lecture at Kisii University, says that the tactic is used by these female as a defense mechanism to satisfy their low esteem. “Most of them, view themselves as not complete, if they are not dating a queue of men” he says. He further adds that most of them have wrong misconception about the acceptance in modern society.