http://www.thenational.scot/politics/christine-mckelvie-hits-out-at-disgusting-and-deeply-disturbing-tory-vision-for-the-uk.23562
112
11
Christine McKelvie hits out at 'disgusting and deeply disturbing' Tory vision for the UK

If you would prefer unlimited access, please support our journalism with a website subscription. Subscribe today for just £3.99 a month.

Will fin breid, barley-bree an paintit room. Whan MacLean meets wi's friens in Springburn. Aa thae roses an geeans will turn tae blume. An a black laud frae yont Nyanga. Dings the fell gallows o the burghers doun.

Black an white ane-til-ither mairriet. Mak the vile barracks o thair maisters bare. Sae come aa ye at hame wi freedom. Never heed whit the houdies croak for Doom. In yer hous aa the bairns o Aidam.

Tak the road an seek ither loanins. Wi thair ill-ploys tae sport an play. Nae mair will our bonnie callants. Merch tae war whan our braggarts crousely craw. Nor wee weans frae pitheid an clachan. Murn the ships sailin doun the Broomielaw. Broken faimilies in launs we've hairriet. Will curse 'Scotlan the Brave' nae mair, nae mair.

Roch the win i the clear day's dawin. Blaws the clouds heilster-gowdie owre the bay. But thair's mair nor a roch win blawin. Thro the Great Glen o the warl the day. It's a thocht that wad gar our rottans. Aa thae rogues that gang gallus fresh an gay.

TORY Government proposals for firms to have to list foreign workers were yesterday likened to the type of measures introduced in Germany in the 1930s during the rise of Nazism.

TORY Government proposals for firms to have to list foreign workers were yesterday likened to the type of measures introduced in Germany in the 1930s during the rise of Nazism.

Christina McKelvie condemned the controversial plan at the SNP conference yesterday a week after it was set out by Home Secretary Amber Rudd. The SNP MSP said the planned initiative was “disgusting, disgraceful and deeply disturbing”.

Theresa May has since denied the move was ever UK Government policy after a public backlash including from company bosses who said they would refuse to comply.

Addressing delegates in Glasgow, McKelvie quoted a poem on fascism by Michael Rosen, saying his words are “prescient indeed”.

“Little did he know that with the dawn of post-Brexit Britain we would hear some of the most right-wing reactionary politics that I’ve heard in my lifetime at a mainstream party political conference,” she said.

“The Tory party conference last week was a disgusting, disgraceful and deeply disturbing insight to what may face us in this land if we become the bystanders and not speak out against discrimination.

“They came for the human rights lawyers and we did nothing, but we will not do nothing. The poisonous rhetoric has no place in our land. We heard Tory minister after Tory minister tell us foreign students were not welcome, that foreign doctors could only stay long enough to train our home grown doctors then you could get lost.”

She added: “We heard nothing to set the minds at rest of the EU nationals that have given much to our lives, communities, culture, arts, research, innovation and tax take. They have given more than they have taken out... Now we have lists of foreign workers reminiscent of the rise of Nazism in the 1930s.”

Delegates at the conference overwhelmingly backed a resolution condemning the Tories “deeply ugly” vision for a Brexit Britain where “people are judged based on their passport rather than their abilities”.

Commenting after the resolution was passed, former SNP MSP and French citizen, Christian Allard, said: “The difference between the SNP conference and last week’s Tory conference could not be starker. Here in Glasgow, we are promoting a message of inclusivity and diversity– a million miles away from the Tory message of xenophobia and division. Scotland welcomes people from all over the world – and sending this message to each and every international citizen that our contribution is appreciated and valued is vital in Scotland’s efforts to build a more inclusive society.

“The way the Brexit vote has led to a legitimisation of xenophobia has been disgraceful – and comments like those made by the right-wing Tories north and south of the Border since the June vote have been a factor in this.”

A Scottish Conservative spokesman described McKelvie’s remarks as “uninformed and stupid”.