http://www.business-standard.com/article/politics/rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-disputes-pm-narendra-modi-on-gau-rakshaks-116101100163_1.html
115
11
The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) on Tuesday changed its uniform from khaki shorts to dark brown trousers. But, there was no change in its views on gau raksha, or cow protection.chief Mohan Bhagwat, who delivered the customary Vijaya Dashami speech on the 91st foundation day of the organisation at its headquarters in Nagpur, disagreed with Prime Minister over the antecedents of gau rakshaks, or cow protectors. He also advised state administrations to not equate cow protectors with those who attempt to create disharmony in society.

In early August and in the wake of atrocities on Dalits by groups of cow vigilantes, including in his home state of Gujarat, the prime minister had said at the second anniversary of his MyGov platform in New Delhi that 70-80 per cent of the so-called are involved in anti-social activities and don this garb to hide their illegal activities. He had also asked state governments to prepare dossiers of gau rakshaks. A day later, speaking in Telangana, the PM again referred to a “handful” of ‘fake cow protectors’.Then the PM’s comments were resented by the for painting all cow protectors with the same brush. Vishva Hindu Parishad leader Pravin Togadia was more aggressive in his criticism of the PM. Today, Bhagwat seemingly endorsed the PM on ending caste discrimination with people not allowed entry into temples or draw water from the well. But, he stressed that “countless good people are working for cow protection.”Today, Bhagwat said gau sevaks “cannot be compared to those undesirable elements who create disharmony.” He said the “sacred mission of gau sevaks would continue and gather momentum”. He also said despite “grave provocation” the “law abiding” gau sevaks are carrying out their activities without violating the law and will continue to do so.Bhagwat said that in ensuring law and order, administrations should not weigh the law abiding gau sevaks on the same scale as those who violate the law. He also said some sections in the media sensationalise reporting on such issues for commercial gains.According to the English rendition of his speech, Bhagwat said it was a matter of shame if people were being insulted or beaten up by their coreligionists “because of one’s wrath over a trivial issue or one’s superiority complex” — a reference to upper caste youth stripping and beating up Dalits for skinning cows.“There are some flaws in our society and there is discrimination as well, which is exploited by certain elements for their benefits,” he said.He said such incidents gave “divisive forces” an opportunity to tarnish the reputation of Bharat (India) and slow down efforts to protect and augment the indigenous varieties of cows. He said prohibiting cow slaughter was part of the Directive Principles of the Constitution, and groups carrying forward this mission were doing it within the framework of the Constitution. He said that while in many states cow slaughter is banned, “but sometimes in some places in these states the ‘gau sevaks’ have to do active campaigns to ensure proper implementation of such laws”.Over the past couple of years, both the and have tried to reach out to Dalits, particularly in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh. Bhagwat spoke at length on several issues confronting the nation at the foundation day celebrations at its headquarters in Nagpur. The was founded on Vijayadashami day in 1925.The chief also lauded the performance of the Modi government. On surgical strikes by the Indian Army, he said the strikes have raised the prestige of the Indian Army globally, and it has also sent a message to those — a reference to Pakistan and terror groups — attempting to create trouble in India. Bhagwat said that the government needed to be congratulated.He detailed the work to increase social harmony. The chief said the “discriminatory” approach of the Jammu and Kashmir government and the state administration towards Jammu and Ladakh should end. “There is an urgent need to promote, consolidate and establish nationalistic activities and forces in those areas,” he said, adding that the Centre and state government should work in tandem.He said the Hindu refugees displaced from Pakistan-occupied Kashmir were yet to get citizenship rights. “They don't have ration cards and jobs. How long will they wait?” asked Bhagwat.“For decades, Kashmiri Pandits have been living outside. They should live where they used to and be sure of their protection as patriots and Hindus. Such circumstances should be created and they be given justice,” he said.Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati criticised Bhagwat. “Going against public sentiment and praising whose several unlawful, violent and casteist acts have come to light cannot be termed as something in interest,” Mayawati said in a statement.