http://www.presstv.ir/Detail/2016/10/11/488611/Syria-UN-Ban-Kimoon-US-Russia
112
11
Syria has strongly criticized outgoing United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, saying he dealt a blow to the world body’s reputation during his tenure.

A sources in Syrian Foreign Ministry said in a statement on Tuesday that Ban undermined the world body by taking sides in global conflicts, official SANA news agency reported.

The statement added that Ban "repeatedly hurt the credibility of the United Nations and its objectivity and made himself a party to problems facing our world."

Ban, 72, is a former South Korean foreign minister who will step down on December 31 after 10 years of service as the UN secretary general.

A view of the Syrian Foreign Ministry building in the capital, Damascus

The source also criticized Ban for agreeing to act in accordance with the policies of Syria's enemies.

Syria has been gripped by foreign-backed militancy since March 2011.

Damascus says the US and its regional allies such as Saudi Arabia, Turkey and Qatar are the main supporters of the militants fighting the government forces.

Since September 2014, the US and some of its regional allies have also been pounding purported Daesh positions inside Syria without any authorization from Damascus or a UN mandate.

This is while most members of the same alliance have long been among the staunch supporters of the Takfiri extremist groups operating to topple the Syrian government over the past years.

On September 17, a US-led airstrike killed dozens of Syrian soldiers, and more than 100 others were injured in the Syrian city of Dayr al-Zawr.

The US-led alliance in the past has also been accused of dropping weapons and munitions to Daesh terrorists in Iraq and Syria.

Elsewhere in the statement, the source lashed out at the UN chief for “shamelessly” dropping a special report on the violations committed against children in Yemen during the ongoing Saudi aggression, saying this move has done “indelible” historic harm to the world body.

Ban has been criticized by human rights group for dropping Saudi Arabia from a list of children's rights violators after coming under "undue pressure."

Saudi Arabia has been engaged in a deadly campaign against Yemen since March 2015. More than 10,000 people have died in Saudi airstrikes ever since, according to the UN.