http://www.theguardian.pe.ca/News/Local/2016-10-19/article-4667005/RCMP-reviewing-e-gaming-complaint/1
115
11
P.E.I. NDP Leader Mike Redmond held court with reporters Thursday afternoon, saying he planned to make a formal complaint to the RCMP in hopes of convincing police to investigate the province's e-gaming scandal.

The RCMP in Prince Edward Island is reviewing a complaint over the province’s failed e-gaming scheme to determine whether an investigation is warranted.

A spokeswoman with the national police force informed The Guardian Wednesday that police received a complaint Monday on the controversial file.

NDP Leader Mike Redmond, along with representatives of the NDP, formally handed in the letter of complaint to the RCMP.

"We are pleased to deliver our letter of complaint specific to specific points of the Criminal Code of Canada and subsequent information related to begin an investigation," Redmond said in a short statement Wednesday.

Redmond told media last week that he would be formally complaining to the RCMP about the e-gaming scandal.

“We feel that the RCMP are the only institution at this point that can actually properly investigate,’’ Redmond said at the time.

“Let’s cut to the chase. Let’s ask for a full judicial inquiry. Let’s get the RCMP involved. Let’s get to the truth and let’s clean up this mess.’’

The P.E.I. auditor general’s report into e-gaming, released earlier this month, revealed the venture was riddled with inappropriate secrecy and an overall disregard for taxpayers’ interests. Loans and grants were paid out without due diligence or transparency.

Several senior officials, who have since left government, were in apparent conflicts of interest, according toauditor general Jane MacAdam.

MacAdam’s investigation also found that emails of a number of key government officials were deleted.

Redmond said at his news conference last week he found this revelation particularly alarming.

“Somebody within government, whether it was the Ghiz government or the MacLauchlan government, decided it was in the best interest of the public to delete public emails,’’ he said.

“Somebody obviously decided that they were going to erase all those emails and make sure that the public didn’t have any knowledge of what was going on.’’

On Tuesday, the Mi’kmaq Confederacy of P.E.I. stated that it has agreed to permit the law firm McInnes Cooper to release some of the information it has on the e-gaming scandal, thanks to a request by Premier Wade MacLauchlan.