http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3849914/Boris-Johnson-immortalised-clay-bust.html
111
11
Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson had his wings clipped this week with the departure of one of his most senior aides, Will Walden.

But Boris's personality cult nevertheless grows. Royal sculptor Frances Segelman has completed a clay bust of the blond Brexiteer to be cast in bronze and exhibited at the Tower of London next week to raise money for the Stroke Association.

'He's so fabulous,' Frances gushes of Boris.

Royal sculptor Frances Segelman has completed a clay bust of Boris Johnson (shown)

Frances described Boris as 'fabulous' and said he was a pleasure to work with

'He was a pleasure to be with because he is so bright and positive. There's a lovely aura around him, so it was a nice feeling and it came out in the sculpture.

'Boris loved it,' she adds. 'He is not vain.'

Perish the thought.

Samantha Cameron says Dave is 'chilling'

OCCASION: Red Women of the Year Awards at the Royal Festival Hall's Skylon Bar, South London.

GUESTS: Samantha Cameron, Olympic cyclist Victoria Pendleton, Downton actress Joanne Froggatt and artist Grayson Perry.

TALKING POINT: Samantha, wearing a custom-made Roksanda dress, enjoyed being out of her former PM husband's shadow.

Samantha Cameron donned a custom-made Roksanda dress to the Red Women of the Year Awards at the Royal Festival Hall's Skylon Bar, South London

Presenter Fearne Cotton (right) asked Samantha, who, of course, no longer lives at 10 Downing Street, if she could come round to her 'actual house' for tea. The answer was 'No'

'Things are definitely different,' she told me. 'Dave's chilling and I'm the one that's working! I think he's still adjusting, but he's very happy.'

AWKWARD MOMENT: Presenter Fearne Cotton asked Samantha, who, of course, no longer lives at 10 Downing Street, if she could come round to her 'actual house' for tea. The answer was 'No'.

ROYAL SNUB: Grayson Perry was disappointed Prince Philip didn't greet him at the Royal Academy of Arts party he hosted last week.

'He never said hello to me. I was really disappointed because I wanted to be insulted by him.

'Maybe everyone was worried he'd be inappropriate because I was dressed as a woman? I don't know.'

CYCLE CHIC: Gold medallist Victoria Pendleton looked stylish in Stella McCartney, but her trousers, cut above the ankle, still resembled pedal pushers.

Victoria Pendleton (shown) looked stylish in Stella McCartney, but her trousers, cut above the ankle, still resembled pedal pushers

Downton stakes its claim on King Tut

The Earl and Countess of Carnarvon made a fortune from Downton Abbey, which was filmed at their Highclere Castle home in Hampshire.

Now Fiona Carnarvon wants to make sure the money keeps rolling in by publicising the stately home's connection to ITV's latest Sunday night drama, Tutankhamun.

In the series, Sam Neill plays the 5th Earl of Carnarvon, who funded Howard Carter's 1922 dig that discovered the tomb of Egypt's boy king.

Fiona Carnarvon wants to make sure the money keeps rolling in by publicising the stately home's connection to ITV's latest Sunday night drama, Tutankhamun (shown)

Fiona has written a blog publicising an Ancient Egypt show at Highclere.

She says of the tomb's discovery: 'It could be considered the first global world media event.

'I began to research the story for our own exhibition here, to share the characters and detail of an extra- ordinary story.'

Lady Colin Campbell's behaviour on I'm A Celeb... shocked fellow contestants, but that has not stopped the controversial royal biographer teaching good manners.