http://www.news.com.au/national/northern-territory/backpacker-tax-cut-good-news-for-nt-mango-farmers-preparing-to-harvest/news-story/03e86d54690608082683c6a286aebebc
112
11
KEN McGREGOR and AAP AAP

THE slashing of the controversial backpacker tax has boosted hopes Territorian mango farms will be able to recruit up to 4500 fruit pickers needed for imminent harvest.

While the tax drop from more than 32.5 cents to 19 cents for each dollar earned by holiday makers has been heralded as a step in the right direction by NT farmers, hospitality groups and the primary industries minister Ken Vowles wants it abolished altogether.

Treasurer Scott Morrison yesterday defended charging travellers an extra $5 when they leave Australian shores to compensate lost revenue from the backpacker tax.

The compromise package included a $50 cut to the working holiday visa application fee, but also a $5 hike in the departure tax, taking it up to $60, to help pay for the changes.

Farmers were relieved by the change in the tax rate, but the tourism industry was up in arms over the increase in the passenger movement charge.

Mr Morrison said the industry was putting up a predictable argument.

He pointed out the charge last changed in 2012 and since then hundreds of millions of dollars had been spent on airports around the country, there had been the introduction of e-gates at no extra charge, and the government had banned excessive surcharging on credit cards.

“So we have done a lot to reduce the burden on travellers in Australia,” Mr Morrison said yesterday.

He said Australia’s higher wages meant, even with scrapping the tax-free threshold for backpackers, they would find themselves with the same amount of money here as in Canada, the UK or New Zealand.

Agriculture Minister Barnaby Joyce reassured growers who were worried they wouldn’t have enough labour because of the length of time it has taken to resolve the issue.

Mr Joyce was responding to Tasmanian strawberry farmer David Jennings, who feared he wouldn’t have enough pickers while working holiday-makers shun Australia as a destination.

“If his harvest starts in two weeks’ time, there’s no reason he couldn’t be attracting people in for that,” Mr Joyce said.

Liberal senator Jonathon Duniam, a critic of the original proposal, also played down fears of a labour shortage, saying the $10-million, taxpayerfunded marketing component of the new package would attract the necessary workforce.

But Greens senator Peter Whish-Wilson said the lower tax rate was still an unacceptable burden on the horticulture industry.

“The treasurer is producing rotten eggs and is trying to sell it as pavlova,” he said.