http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3851592/Labour-CANCELS-weekly-post-PMQs-briefing-days-Jeremy-Corbyn-s-spinner-provokes-outrage-comparing-British-bombing-ISIS-Russian-atrocities-Syria.html
112
11
Seumas Milne is Jeremy Corbyn's closest aide and spokesman. His weekly briefing with journalists was cancelled today

Jeremy Corbyn's top spinner has cancelled a weekly briefing with journalists on Prime Minister's Questions, a week after his performance prompted demands he be sacked.

Seumas Milne provoked outrage after the session a week ago when he compared British bombing of ISIS terrorists with Russian attacks on civilians in Aleppo.

The weekly 'huddle' after Prime Minister's Questions is the main opportunity each week for journalists to question Mr Corbyn's team on Labour issues and a chance for the Opposition to respond to Theresa May's performance at the Despatch Box.

An unannounced complete cancellation of the briefing is unheard of.

Mr Corbyn's team left the Commons chamber as soon as the Labour leader finished his six questions, instead of waiting until the end of the session to hear all of Mrs May's answers, as is normal.

Reports suggested today is the final day of Mr Miline's contract as Mr Corbyn's director of communications and the team were spotted at the Bellamy's Restaurant on the Parliamentary Estate.

Sources in Mr Corbyn's team promised individual briefings later today when contacted by MailOnline.

Mr Corbyn last week faced demands to disown his 'disgraceful' top aide after he sparked fury by comparing British bombing of ISIS to Russian atrocities in Syria.

Mr Milne complained that the focus on horrors in Aleppo was 'diverting attention' from the consequences of Western military action.

He also suggested people should be protesting outside the US embassy in London rather than Moscow's embassy.

Jeremy Corbyn's press team skipped the weekly briefing with journalists shortly after the Labour leader challenged Theresa May on the NHS, pictured

Mr Corbyn's team hold a weekly briefing each week to answer questions about Labour and

The extraordinary outburst came a day after Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson condemned war crimes linked to Vladimir Putin's forces and urged protests against Russian involvement in Syria's civil war.

It was quickly condemned by Labour moderates, who branded Mr Milne a 'Putin apologist' and a 'disgrace'.

Former frontbencher John Woodcock said: 'By any reasonable measure this is just not true.

'This absurdity seems like a deliberate provocation, unworthy of our leader and our party.'

Brendan Cox, widower of Labour MP Jo Cox, who campaigned for an end to the bloodshed in Syria, said: 'This isn't just wrong, it's absolutely disgraceful.'

A child waits for treatment at a makeshift hospital after an airstrike on a residential neighbourhood last week

The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights says Wednesday that Tuesday's bombings killed 25, while others put the death toll at 41

Milne's comments come as bombs continue to fall on Aleppo, where thousands of civilians have been killed.

Former shadow defence minister Kevan Jones described Milne's comments as 'completely outrageous'.

He told MailOnline: 'To compare the rule based intervention by the UK in Syria against Russian bombing, including the use of bunker busting bombs to target innocent civilians.

'Jeremy Corbyn should completely distance himself from this. It will further alienate decent, ordinary people who are put off voting Labour by someone who is clearly an apologist for Putin and his regime.'

Liberal Democrat MP Tom Brake demanded Mr Corbyn confirm whether he agreed with the remarks.

'It is ludicrous for Labour to suggest it sides with Putin over Obama,' he said.

'To only ever point the finger at the West is puerile politics not serious international diplomacy.

'Jeremy Corbyn must clarify immediately if this is his party's official position.'

'Both the US and British authorities have been reluctant to accept any independent assessment of those.'

Asked if the UK was as culpable as Russia, Mr Milne said: 'We are not in the business of allocating blame on the whole thing. Russia's intervention in the civil war has been opposed by Jeremy from the start and the intervention of foreign powers in the conflict has no doubt escalated and fuelled it throughout.'

Pressed on whether that meant people should protest outside the US embassy instead of Russia's, the spokesman replied: 'People are free to protest outside the intervening powers' embassies and there are a number of them – not just the United States and Russia, but multiple foreign interventions.'