http://www.philstar.com/cebu-news/2016/10/20/1635517/move-give-reservists-monthly-pay-approved
20
2
CEBU, Philippines - All 500 reservists under the Armed Forces of the Philippines who are serving Cebu City may soon get P4,000 monthly pay from the Cebu City government.

This as the City Council passed a resolution requesting the Office of the Mayor to include in the annual budget next year the honorarium for AFP reservists.

City Councilor David Tumulak, author of the resolution, said the city should provide assistance so that these reservists could perform their duties well alongside the Philippine National Police.

"Extensive crime is predominantly observed in the city, hence, the need to deploy additional forces to assist the PNP and the AFP in ensuring peace and order in hazardous areas," his resolution read.

Tumulak, deputy mayor for peace and order, said these reservists do not receive salary from the national government.

The City Council approved the resolution during its recent regular session.

Freeman ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch:

"In order to support the cause of the Philippine National Police and the Armed Forces of the Philippines in maintaining peace and order, visibility of the AFP Reservists is necessary in the furtherance of its duties," it further read.

Tumulak said the reservists can augment and can be deployed as force multipliers in ensuring peace and order and in deterring criminality all over the city.

He cited Republic Act No. 7077 which states "that it is the policy of the State to maintain standing or regular military force in times of peace and consonant to its adequate and actual needs for the security of the state but which can be rapidly expanded by the well-disciplined citizen forces in the event of war, invasion, or rebellion."

Tumulak further said that it is the mission of the reserve force to provide assistance in relief and rescue operation during calamities or disaster, war, and rebellion, among others.

Last August, some personnel of the AFP supported the drive of the PNP against lawlessness and criminality by establishing their presence in public areas during peak hours.

Their presence was also requested by the City Council to augment the over 1,000 policemen being deployed in public areas in the city such as ports, terminals, markets, wharfs, malls, and churches, among others. (FREEMAN)