http://www.politico.eu/article/facebook-thanks-norwegian-pm-over-napalm-girl-controversy/
114
11
Vietnamese-Canadian Phan Thi Kim Phuc in front of the 1972 Pulitzer Prize-winning photograph of her during the Vietnam war | Jiji Press/AFP via Getty Images Facebook thanks Norwegian PM over ‘napalm girl’ controversy ‘These are difficult decisions and we don’t always get it right,’ the company wrote.

Norwegian Prime Minister Erna Solberg received an email from Facebook’s Chief of Operations Sheryl Sandberg thanking her for “raising important issues” after the social media site’s removal of a famous photograph led to a censorship row.

Facebook on Friday blocked a Norwegian writer who posted a historic photograph of a naked girl running from napalm attacks during the Vietnam War — and then deleted a post by Solberg on the same subject.

The site backtracked later that day. The social media said it will allow users to post the picture “because of its status as an iconic image of historical importance,” a company spokesperson said Friday.

Sandberg wrote that choosing between historical relevance and nudity concerns “are difficult decisions and we don’t always get it right.”

“We intend to do better. We are committed to listening to our community and evolving. Thank you for helping us get this right,” she said.

Sandberg said the historical relevance of the picture “outweighs the importance of keeping nudity off Facebook.”

“After hearing from you and other members of our community, we have decided to restore the photo,” she told Solberg.

The editor-in-chief of Norway’s biggest newspaper, Aftenposten, had slammed Facebook’s decision to ban the picture last week, calling the move “authoritarian.”

But on the day of Sandberg’s letter, Aftenposten posted a story saying that Facebook had deleted the account of a writer who had shared the same iconic image.

According to the paper, Facebook told the writer that his account had been permanently terminated and that he would have no recourse to get it reinstated.

The unequal treatment of the prime minister and the writer shows the Facebook rules are arbitrarily enforced and that users are treated unequally, the paper said.