http://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/newfoundland-labrador/wanted-man-writes-rnc-facebook-page-1.3758162
110
11
A man wanted by the Royal Newfoundland Constabulary commented on the force's Facebook page over the weekend to dismiss rumours he could be the person responsible for an armed bank robbery last week and promised to turn himself in.

"Bys oh bys I look far from the BMO suspect," a Facebook user by the name of Brandon Melbourne commented Sunday.

"Different glasses, bigger nose and no neck tattoo."

The RNC shared a photo of a man named Brandon Melbourne, 24, on its Facebook page on Saturday.

Melbourne has five arrest warrants in effect for failing to appear in court and breaching multiple court orders.

The post sparked comments from people who said Melbourne looked like the man police say held up the Bank of Montreal on Elizabeth Avenue on Friday.

A Facebook user named Brandon Melbourne commented on the RNC's Facebook post alerting the public of a wanted man, also by the name of Brandon Melbourne, on Sunday. (Facebook)

But, a man with the same name was quick to point out the differences between him and the photo of the alleged armed robber that was circulated by the police shortly after the robbery.

'It kinda do look a little like me'

"I wouldn't Robb a chocolate bar let alone a bank so all yee gotta stop judging someone you don't know," he wrote.

He did admit, however, that the suspect does look similar to him.

"I can understand your opinions it kinda do look a little like me but my neck tattoo comes on to my face and this guy has zero tattoos," he wrote.

The RNC released images hours after an armed robbery Friday from surveillance video at the Bank of Montreal on Elizabeth Avenue. Police say the man in the photo held up the bank and got away with cash. (Royal Newfoundland Constabulary)

"I think the police need to step up there game and focus on who really did it because I'd say he is sitting back looking at all this having the laugh of his life knowing he is safe tucked away somewhere."

The RNC's media relations officers commented on the post Monday, asking that Melbourne turn himself in.

"In the meantime ... we have five warrants we would like to discuss with you," the RNC commented back.

Melbourne commented back, promising to turn himself in Monday night.

"Take my word I just got a few things to take care of busy day then I'll be down," he said.

The RNC offered to pick him up, but Melbourne said he has a ride.

Facebook used as last resort

This isn't the first time a wanted person taunted the police force on Facebook.

In January 2015, Rodney Constantine commented on a Facebook post about his arrest warrant.

He told the RNC he'd see them "Monday morn." He did keep his promise and later turned himself in.

RNC Const. Geoff Higdon says the RNC post wanted suspects on social media when other investigative techniques are exhausted.

As of noon, Melbourne had not been arrested.