http://www.khmertimeskh.com/news/29658/ministry-warns-of-possible-flooding/
111
11
The Ministry of Water Resources and Meteorology yesterday warned local authorities and people throughout the country to pay close attention and use caution as heavy rain, which could lead to flooding, was expected throughout the country this week.



Water Resources and Meteorology Minister Lim Kean Hor said the influence of a low pressure system across the Mekong River basin and the lowering of pressure in the South China Sea would result in rain falling steadily and heavily, with some areas receiving more than 100 millimeters in a 24-hour period.



“The low pressure system will continue to the Vietnam [South China] Sea on Tuesday night and head to the plateau area between the border of Cambodia and Laos. This weather situation will cause a lot of rainfall over the country until Sunday,” he said.



Mr. Kean Hor said continuous, heavy rain would fall in the plateau area and the coast would be cloudy with high waves, especially from Wednesday until Friday.



“Please ministries, institutes, local authorities and all people, pay high attention with this heavy rainfall to avoid any accidents,” he said.



The ministry’s announcement confirmed that floods could happen suddenly in the plateau area and that rivers would rise this week.



National Committee for Disaster Management spokesman Keo Vy said last week that floods caused by heavy rain often happened in provinces with mountainous regions as the water flowed down the mountains and flooded villages.



However, he said the floods had not seriously affected villagers because they didn’t usually last very long.



On Sunday last week, heavy rain in Preah Vihear province’s Chey Sen and Chheb districts caused flooding, but no serious problems were reported.



Reth Yath, the deputy police chief in Chheb district, said yesterday that the heavy rains made some houses, the road and the pagoda flooded, but the water was gone in about an hour.



“It was not serious because it was caused by heavy rain, but we continue to tell the villagers to be careful and ready all the time,” he said.



“Specifically we asked them to prepare their boats and be ready to move to a safe place in case the water rises quickly.”



Mr. Yath said it was the first incident of flooding in his district this year.