http://www.politico.com/tipsheets/politico-pulse/2016/09/harvard-politico-poll-americans-blame-pharma-on-costs-216489
20
2
Harvard-POLITICO poll: Americans blame pharma on costs

EXCLUSIVE HARVARD-POLITICO POLL: PHARMA HAS BLACK EYE — Americans worried about health costs have identified the number one culprit: drug companies. A Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health-POLITICO poll finds that Democrats and Republicans alike hold the pharmaceutical industry responsible — although the sentiment is stronger among Democrats. A slim majority of adults also support adding a public option to Obamacare.

It's the first poll in what's going to be a year-long collaboration between Harvard's public health school and POLITICO. See the results.

Story Continued Below

Read the story.

ZIKA VIRUS

CR/Zika package: Not close. The House and Senate left town last night — nine days before the government is due to run out of money — still without a deal on a continuing resolution and Zika funding. Earlier Thursday, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell introduced a GOP-written bill that Democrats immediately said they would reject, in part because it didn't have funding for Flint, Mich. That leaves staffers with the weekend to continue negotiations.

23,135. That's how many Zika cases the CDC has confirmed across the United States and territories, according to data released Thursday. More than 2,100 of those cases are pregnant women.

THANK GOODNESS IT'S FRIDAY PULSE — And thank goodness for the NIH's long-running study on adolescent health, which has uncovered numerous public health findings (and was honored last night), but was nearly quashed on Capitol Hill almost 30 years ago after it was caricatured as a "teen sex study." It's an important reminder: Sometimes those silly-sounding studies have very serious payoffs. Send tips and grant money to ddiamond@politico.com or @ddiamond on Twitter.

With help from Paul Demko (@PaulDemko), Jen Haberkorn (@JenHab) and Brett Norman (@BrettNorman).

GET SMART QUICK. SAVE TIME. BE AN OFFICE HERO: Introducing POLITICO Pro’s DataPoint — a library of downloadable infographics that explain complex policy issues affecting the health care industry, as well as complicated legislative and regulatory processes. Include infographics in your own presentations or share them directly with your members, clients or colleagues. Ready to see DataPoint in action? Download your complimentary graphic: “The Spread of America’s Opioid Epidemic.”

ON THE TRAIL

Clinton, Trump proposing starkly different coverage plans. The health care plans put forth by Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump would lead to dramatically different changes in access to coverage, according to a new analysis by RAND Corporation and Commonwealth Fund researchers. Clinton’s proposals would build on the coverage gains made under Obamacare, while Trump’s policies would roll back programs that have allowed roughly 20 million Americans to get insurance, reports Pro’s Paul Demko.

The Clinton proposal that would make the biggest difference is capping out-of-pocket costs at 5 percent of income. That would lead to 9.6 million more individuals gaining coverage in 2018, based on RAND estimates, at a cost of $90 billion.

By contrast, Trump’s plan to completely repeal Obamacare would result in 19.7 million fewer Americans having coverage. But a couple of Trump’s other proposals would slightly mitigate those coverage losses. Extending the tax exemption on health insurance premiums to individuals who buy their own plans would reduce the coverage losses by 4.1 million. And allowing insurers to sell across state lines would result in 2.2 million fewer individuals losing coverage.

Trump's policy team: So thin, it's seen as risky. The cadre of health care advisers that the Trump campaign and transition team have managed to assemble can be counted on one hand. POLITICO's Nancy Cook needed just three fingers.

1) Rich Bagger, executive director of Trump's transition team, has worked for pharmaceutical companies Celgene and Pfizer, as well as Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield of New Jersey.

2) Andrew Bremberg, former policy director for the RNC Platform Committee, is tasked with crafting domestic policy.

3) There's also Jim Frogue, a recent addition to the campaign who runs a lobbying shop, FrogueClark.

… Tomas Philipson, a University of Chicago economist, last week told POLITICO that he joined the transition team to work specifically on HHS issues. But now, his status with the team is unclear - his affiliation with the campaign has been scrubbed from his LinkedIn profile, and he has ignored requests for comment.

Republican health policy experts tell Nancy that they're increasingly concerned that Trump's thin bench means his would-be administration is primed to stumble out of the gate. More for Pros.

Clinton's policy team: Deep, and 'perhaps over-qualified.' Meanwhile, the Clinton campaign boasts a far deeper bench, which includes Neera Tanden of the Center of American Progress and Stanford economist Raj Chetty. All told, Clinton can turn to about 15 policy experts within the campaign, in addition to more than 30 outside working groups, although they don't all focus on health care.

"It’s an impressive crew, but perhaps over-qualified when it comes to some of the matters that have convulsed this particular election, like the size of Trump’s hands or the semiotics of Pepe the Frog," Jonathan Cohn writes at the Huffington Post.

As a result, Clinton's policy wonks say they're focused on Nov. 9 — while expecting their boss to win election the day before — and doing whatever they can to make her possible presidential transition as seamless as possible. More.

ON THE HILL

Brady remains committed to post-acute payment overhaul. Long-term care providers hit the Hill yesterday to convey their concerns about a proposal from Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady to overhaul how Medicare pays for post-acute care. Brady’s value-based purchasing bill was introduced more than a year ago, but provider groups grew alarmed over the prospect that he was looking to mark up the bill before Congress adjourns for the election.

That’s clearly not happening. “Heavens no,” Brady told PULSE yesterday. “When we get the incentives right, when we get the policy and design right, then we’ll move it forward.”

… With a soon-to-be-lame-duck Congress, that almost certainly means any similar proposal will need to be reintroduced next year. But Brady says he remains committed to pushing a post-acute payment reform bill through Congress instead of waiting for CMS introduce its own initiative. “I’m encouraged by the discussion,” he said. “We’ll stay at the table.”

** A message from PhRMA: Insurance coverage does not necessarily mean access to care. More medicines are being excluded from coverage, deductibles and copays are going up and insurance companies are increasingly imposing other barriers to access. Know the 4 things to think about when you choose your health plan. Learn more at AccessBetterCoverage.org. **

AROUND TOWN

Kidney group turns tables on insurers. The American Kidney Fund is fighting back against allegations that dialysis providers are improperly steering patients into private health plans in order to boost reimbursement rates, Pro's Paul Demko reports. Insurers have complained that patients who qualify for Medicare or Medicaid are being encouraged to sign up for private plans instead, with dialysis companies footing the bill. The alleged practice has spurred a lawsuit from UnitedHealth Group in Florida and CMS has sought guidance on addressing it.

… In comments to CMS on Thursday, AKF questioned how widespread such abuses are and outlined steps that it has taken to make sure improper steering isn’t occurring. But the group also criticized insurers for purportedly taking steps to avoid enrolling costly end stage renal disease patients, which would potentially violate Obamacare’s anti-discrimination provisions. “This practice constitutes undue influence and undermines patient choice in the same way as improperly steering patients from Medicare or Medicaid coverage to individual market plans,” the group wrote in its comments.

OPIOIDS

Clarification: GOP CR offers $7 million — not $37 million — in opioid funding. The Republican short-term funding bill includes only $7 million in start-up money for the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, contrary to a press release from Sen. Rob Portman’s office touting $37 million in new funding. The larger number is what the CR would provide if it were a year-long bill, but it’s not. The CR would appropriate only the fraction of that to be spent through Dec. 9, and any additional money would have to come in another budget bill.

The CR’s year-long target of $37 million is only about one-fifth of the $181 million CARA authorizes per year — itself a fraction of the $1.1 billion sought by the White House.

… Democrats noted that the portion of CARA funding going to HHS — $3.27 million — is less than the $4.1 million the agency pulled from SAMHSA to pay for the Zika response, absent any action from Congress.

… CARA advocates welcomed some funding for the opioid law, but some noted it wasn’t nearly equal to the scale of the epidemic. “Members of Congress keep telling us they understand the magnitude of this crisis, but talk is cheap,” said Shatterproof CEO Gary Mendell in a statement. “It’s time for them to put their money where their rhetoric is.”

… Others were more pleased. “[T]he important point is that this funding now allows the agencies to start setting up the programs so they are ready to go once the [omnibus] is approved,” Jessica Nickel, executive director of the Addiction Policy Forum, wrote in an email.

Could tech solutions be counterproductive in opioid fight? Authorities are increasingly relying on prescription drug monitoring programs to turn up evidence of abuse, like doctors who shovel prescriptions out the door indiscriminately or patients who doctor shop for pills. But while the databases help police and prosecutors, they haven’t necessarily helped address addiction as disease.

In fact, some experts told Morning eHealth editor Arthur Allen, they may be making things worse. As the supply of prescription opioids dwindles, addicts look for substitutes on the street. Heroin overdoses are skyrocketing in most of the states that use the databases, and none has anywhere near enough beds to treat the addicts they identify.

… PDMPs are “not a panacea,” says Steven Patrick, a professor of health policy at Vanderbilt University. “They should be part of a comprehensive approach to heroin and opioids epidemic.”

More from Arthur: For Pros.

SILICON VALLEY

Just 0.7 percent of venture capital funding went to innovation for elderly. That's according to Seth Sternberg, the co-founder of buzzy Silicon Valley startup Honor. The company, which closed a $42 million funding round this summer, works to deliver personalized home care to seniors. Sternberg was responding to a POLITICO story that concluded Silicon Valley overlooks senior care in favor of investing in services for millennials and the worried well. "True!" he tweeted, citing data from 2014.

"Once [Silicon Valley] finds a new area to invest in, much more innovation tends to follow," Sternberg added.

STAT OF THE DAY

85 percent of research funding is 'avoidably wasted.' That's according to a Lancet study cited by PCORI's Jean Slutsky in a talk yesterday. Slutsky was speaking to researchers and journalists attending the Commonwealth Fund's Harkness Fellowship event in New York City. One big driver of waste: More than half of research studies aren't published in full, Slutsky said.

… Other researchers told PULSE they were suspicious of a precise estimate like "85 percent," but generally agreed with the sentiment. "There's a lot of waste," said Harvard's Ashish Jha.

"I employ several people whose only job is meeting clearly low-value regulatory oversight over very low-risk projects," Jha added. "Peer review is also badly broken, so lots of crappy studies get through — those are waste. And the studies to disprove bad studies are also not [an] ideal use of resources."

NAMES IN THE NEWS

Steve Tilton heads back to PhRMA. Tilton will be VP of federal advocacy, and he's starting in mid-October. It's Tilton's second stint at PhRMA, and it's the second time PhRMA CEO Steve Ubl hired him — the last was in 2003 at AdvaMed.

WHAT WE'RE READING by David Pittman

The top federal law enforcement official in South Florida claimed the opioid epidemic is the biggest public health challenge in the country, the Palm Beach Post reports.

CNN profiles one of the first volunteers to receive an experimental Zika vaccine.

Thirty-five states sue an opioid maker for keeping generics off the market.

Conservative health policy expert Grace-Marie Turner argues in the Chicago Tribune why Obamacare should be scrapped.

A New York Times Well blog details one family’s coming to terms with a schizophrenia diagnosis.

The city of Philadelphia defends its soda tax to the state Supreme Court.

How to make your own EpiPen: A group frustrated by the Mylan device's high cost is circulating a DIY video online, raising ethical questions.

** A message from PhRMA: Open enrollment is upon us once again. Whether you are picking a plan through your employer or a health insurance marketplace, whether you are getting coverage for the first time or changing to a new plan, understanding your coverage options can help with your decision process. Even if you like your plan, it is always smart to spend a little time doing research to make sure your plan is the right one for you, especially as plans change year to year. Here are four helpful things to consider when choosing your health plan. (1) Where can you go for treatment? (2) Review the plan deductible and premium. (3) Find out if and how your medicines are covered. (4) Learn about your potential out-of-pocket costs. These 4 things can help you be a better engaged and empowered health care consumer. Get our quick tips at AccessBetterCoverage.org. **