http://www.dailymail.co.uk/wires/ap/article-3806763/More-abuse-allegations-against-former-USA-Gymnastics-doctor.html
110
11
A former USA Gymnastics team physician accused of sexually abusing two gymnasts is facing 16 more abuse complaints at the university where he was a faculty member, according to a newspaper report on Sunday.

Police in Michigan are also reviewing allegations from 2004 and another from 2014, meaning there are at least 20 complaints overall against Dr Larry Nassar.

The complaints against Nassar date back to 1996, according to Michigan State University police logs obtained by The Indianapolis Star.

Former USA Gymnastics team physician Dr Larry Nassar is accused of sexually abusing four gymnasts faces 16 more abuse complaints at the university where he was a faculty member

The women ranged from 13 to 20 years old when the alleged abuse began, according to the newspaper.

Four of the women who filed reports with Michigan State University police told the newspaper that Nassar allegedly penetrated them with his finger during what were supposed to be medical treatments.

Bronze medalist from the 2000 Sydney Olympic Games and gymnast Rachael Denhollander (pictured) has also launched a claim against Nassar saying he abused her

Nassar hasn't been charged with a crime and denies wrongdoing.

His attorneys, Matthew Newburg and Shannon Smith, said the doctor had used a legitimate medical procedure.

Police logs for 16 complaints show the alleged abuse occurred at the MSU sports medicine clinic, where Nassar worked.

All of the reports were filed in September.

Nassar was fired from the university last week for not complying with 'certain employment requirements,' according to a university spokesman.

Michigan State authorities have said they're devoting significant resources to reviewing the accusations.

One woman said she filed a complaint when she was 16 after seeing Nassar in 2004.

That woman said Nassar applied pressure to her back so intense it made her wince.

He then told her he wanted to try something to alleviate the pain.

She claims Nassar then put a finger at the entrance of her vagina and put another hand on her breast. She said she had a tampon in at the time, according to IndyStar.

'I think I was just in shock,' she recalled, 'and I just froze.'

She was later told by friends she should report the interaction.

Bronze medalist from the 2000 Sydney Olympic Games and gymnast Rachael Denhollander has launched a claim against last month Nassar saying he abused her.

Additionally, police in Michigan are reviewing two earlier allegations about Nassar from 2004 and 2014, meaning there are at least 20 complaints overall

The women ranged from 13 to 20 years old when the alleged abuse began, according to the newspaper (Nassar pictured, center)

She said he assaulted her five times while she was being treated for back pain at Michigan State University by the doctor, as a teenage athlete in 2000.

Denhollander said she was 'terrified' by Nassar's abuse, NY Daily News reports.

'I was ashamed,' she said. 'I was very embarrassed. And I was very confused, trying to reconcile what was happening with the person he was supposed to be,' she said.

'He's this famous team doctor. He's trusted by my friends. He's trusted by these other gymnasts. How could he reach this position in the medical profession? How could he reach this kind of prominence and stature if this is who he is?'

Denhollander said she was just 15 at the time of the abuse which took place while her mother was in the room. But she said the doctor positioned himself in such a way that her mother was unable to see what was going on.

Both women say Nassar fondled their genitals and breasts during treatment.

One woman claimed the the abuse from Nassar became more intense over time.

The IndyStar reported that the woman claims Nassar 'massaged her genitals, penetrated her vagina and anus with his finger and thumb' and unhooked her bra to massage her breasts.

University officials said earlier this month that Nassar was investigated in 2014 when a graduate of the school filed a complaint.

An administrative investigation found no violation of school policy, and the local prosecutor's office did not file charges after an investigation by MSU police.

In September, Nassar was accused of sexually groping and fondling an Olympic gymnast in a lawsuit filed in California.