http://www.dawn.com/news/1291155
112
11
The grand event hosted by foodpanda Pakistan on its fourth anniversary was something that turned on even the faint-hearted. The celebration was graced by the top customers of foodpanda, CEO’s of top hospitality brands in the country, food and lifestyle Bloggers and leading Celebrities from the industry – who happen to be ardent users of foodpanda.

The food delivery service started in 2012 as a fusion of innovation and experience.

The response was positive and in a short period of four years, foodpanda catered to half a million foodies and generated a billion in additional revenue for the restaurant industry.

“Customers are at the heart of our business. We are extremely thankful to our partnering restaurants that work with us closely to provide an unmatched proposition for keeping more than half a million customers delighted," said Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer Nauman S Mirza while showing gratitude to all stakeholders who contributed to the success of the venture.

Further highlighting the technical expertise of the company, Nauman said: “We have achieved 100 per cent automation in order delivery to restaurants. Foodpanda’s proprietary technology enables us to get customer orders directly into the restaurant’s kitchen in less than 20 seconds."

The food delivery market in Pakistan is estimated to reach a $400 million mark by 2020 due to healthy economic growth in the country, improved law and order situation, increased penetration of 3G and 4G services and increased investments, especially in the hospitality sector.

Local restaurant are expanding their footprint across the country and international chains are eyeing second tier cities for expansion.

In such a thriving industry landscape, foodpanda is playing a vital role in connecting millions of foodies in Pakistan with their all-time favorite eateries such as McDonald’s, KFC, Nando’s, Dunkin Donuts, Johnny Rockets, Fat Burger, Sarpinos, OPTP and many more.

The food delivery service started in 2012 as a fusion of innovation and experience. —Courtesy foodpanda

“Partnering with foodpanda has brought success by increasing customer reach. Foodpanda’s platform has enabled us to reach more customers without any cannibalisation. Together we hope to keep delivering exciting food with utmost convenience and bring more smiles on the faces of our valued customers every day," said McDonald's Director Marketing and Development Jamil Mughal.

Using foodpanda’s cutting-edge, user-friendly mobile app, customers are able to discover all the restaurants delivering to their area and restaurants are able to attract a customer base that usually does not order using the existing ordering channels.

The company said that more than a 100 per cent spike in app downloads only in the last 12 months is a true evidence of foodpanda’s popularity among the local foodies.

“The progress in the last 12 months is a testament to our commitment to grow and ace the $400 million food delivery market in Pakistan. In 2016 alone, our customer base has increased by a staggering 100pc and we are now at half a million happy customers. On the restaurant side, we have generated additional sales of Rs1 billion – and honestly we’re just warming up,” added the managing director of foodpanda.

About foodpanda

Foodpanda is a global mobile food delivery marketplace headquartered in Berlin, Germany, and operating in 24 countries and territories.

The service allows users to select from local restaurants and place orders via its mobile application as well as the website. The company has partnered with over 40,000 restaurants.

It is one of the fastest growing e-commerce businesses in Pakistan, recently the online giant achieved a truly extraordinary milestone in record time when it reached Rs1 billion in revenue generation.

This content is a paid advertisement and is not associated with or necessarily reflective of the views of Dawn.com.