http://www.thedailystar.net/backpage/fakhrul-73-others-face-trial-dec-4-1287106
112
11
A Dhaka court yesterday framed charges against BNP Secretary General Mirza Fakhrul Islam Alamgir and 73 others in a case filed for vandalism and preventing police from discharging their duties during a road blockade in December 2012.

It also fixed December 4 to begin the trial of the case.

Fakhrul was not in the first information report (FIR), but according to the charge sheet his involvement was found during the investigation.

On the other hand, BNP leader Mirza Abbas was named as a mastermind in the case statement, but since the probe didn't find his link his name is not in the charge sheet.

During yesterday's hearing, Fakhrul's lawyer Masud Ahmed Talukder said his client had been implicated in the case to harass him politically.

The charge sheet didn't mention any specific allegation against the BNP leader, he said, adding that they would challenge the order with the High Court.

Fakhrul and 35 others, now on bail, pleaded not guilty and demanded justice after Second Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Ali Mashud Sheikh read out the charges to them.

The court cancelled bails of 38 others and issued warrants for their arrest as they remained absent from yesterday's hearing.

Earlier in the day, the court rejected 36 petitions submitted to it to free Fakhrul and 35 others from the charges as, it said, there were no cogent grounds to do so.

In August 2014, Abu Zafar, sub-inspector of Paltan Police Station and investigating officer of the case, submitted the charge sheet to the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate's Court of Dhaka.

According to the charge sheet, some 300 leaders and activists of the BNP-led alliance brought out a procession at Fakirapool in the capital and paraded towards the party's Nayapaltan central office during December 9, 2012 blockade.

At one point, agitators threw bombs at policemen leaving many of them injured and vandalised vehicles on the streets.

A case was filed with Paltan police the same day against 200 to 300 leaders and activists of the BNP-led alliance. Thirty-seven more cases were filed with different police stations in the capital in this connection.

The case statement mentions that Fakhrul on December 6, 2012 urged all not to drive vehicles on city streets during the opposition's countrywide road blockade three days later.

Meanwhile, charges were framed against Fakhrul in three other cases. Moreover, he faces 83 criminal cases filed with different police stations across the country, his lawyer Masud said.