https://www.thestar.com/news/canada/2016/08/16/immigration-detainees-contradict-goodales-claim-none-said-why-their-detention-was-unfair.html
112
11
Minister of Public Safety and Emergency Preparedness Ralph Goodale makes a funding announces immigration holding facilities in Vancouver and Laval, Que., will be replaced as part of a $138-million overhaul intended to improve detention conditions for newcomers to Canada. ( Graham Hughes / THE CANADIAN PRESS )

OTTAWA—Advocates for a group of hunger-striking immigration detainees were shocked Monday to hear Public Safety Minister Ralph Goodale say none had replied to his request for details of why their detention was unfair. In fact, 17 of 50 detainees in two Ontario jails who ended a hunger strike in July responded to Goodale’s invitation conveyed to them by Canada Border Services Agency officials. Syed Hussan, a member of the End Immigration Detention Network, told the Star that many wrote Goodale to make their individual case, and others did not. “Many of the detainees refused to participate. They didn’t know what it was for. They didn’t know it came from Goodale’s office,” Hussan said, adding many felt that, “the onus is not on the detainee to prove why he shouldn’t be in there. The onus is on the government to explain why someone is in prison without trial or charges, in the case of the people we work with, mostly for two-plus years.” Scott Bardsley, a spokesman for Goodale, told the Star Tuesday that the minister was not fully briefed with the latest information on the hunger strikers’ file prior to a news conference in Laval, Que., Monday.

Article Continued Below

After Goodale unveiled details of a plan to “transform the immigration detention system” in Canada, reporters asked how the announcement would satisfy the concerns of the detainees who carried out a 19-day strike in July. Goodale did not refer to the detainees’ call for a 90-day limit on detentions, an end to maximum security imprisonment of immigrant detainees, and stronger judicial oversight and review of detention. None of those demands was met, says Tings Chak, another spokesman for the End Immigration Detention Network. Goodale said he had sent detainees “a written message” outlining the broad nature of his plan and invited them to make their individual case for release to him directly.

“I have not yet received those written descriptions, but, certainly, when I do receive them I will read them with great care,” Goodale said. However, on Tuesday, Goodale’s press secretary said the minister’s office received 17 replies, but the minister has not yet read them. Bardsley said Goodale’s “written message” was not a letter directly to the detainees, but a copy of a blog post he wrote for Huffington Post. With so much happening on the minister’s files, including the aborted terrorist attack in Strathroy last week, Bardsley said Goodale was not fully briefed prior to meeting reporters. Bardsley told the Star Goodale’s plan doesn’t provide money for more room at Toronto’s immigration holding centre, because it does not have “a capacity shortage.” He said Ontario detainees would benefit from the extra $15 million to be spent nationally on developing “alternatives to detention” and on extra health services. The boost in funding for health services is only for detainees in the care of the federal government in immigration holding centres, he added. Services for immigrant detainees held in provincial jails are set out in agreements with provinces that are periodically renegotiated. Goodale called Monday’s announcement a “major step in the right direction” to “alleviate the root causes of those pressures.” However, advocates for migrants detained in three immigration holding centres and provincial jails across Canada disagreed. “It’s promising that the government is now acknowledging that there is a problem that detainees have raised for three years nationally,” Hussan said Tuesday. “But the only specifics that we know of is millions of dollars being poured into building new prisons. “And we don’t need new prisons. Immigration detention is imprisonment without trial or charges. “It must end.” In a news release, a Montreal-based group Solidarity Across Borders, echoed the same concerns. Noe Arteaga Santos, a member of the group, said it “demands the closing of all immigration detention centres. “No migrants should be detained at all.”

Read more about: