http://blogs.wsj.com/cfo/2016/10/11/samsungs-balance-sheet-and-brand-reputation-hit-by-galaxy-note-7-termination-analysts-say/
111
11
Listen to CFO Journal’s Nina Trentmann discuss Samsung’s brand value and balance sheet.

Samsung Electronic Co.’s decision to permanently withdraw its flagship smartphone Galaxy Note 7 from the market will substantially harm the company’s brand value and its balance sheet, industry analysts say.

On Tuesday, the South Korean technology firm announced that it would end production and sales of the phone model that has been troubled with self-igniting batteries since it launched in August.

The move comes on a day when Samsung’s shares sank 8%, wiping off about $17 billion from the company’s market capitalization. Analysts at Credit Suisse AG had forecast that Samsung could lose nearly $17 billion in revenue if it ceased sales of the phone.

Samsung’s brand value, calculated as $71.2 billion in February 2016 by Brand Finance, a U.K.-based consultancy firm, will take a severe temporary hit, said Robert Haigh, director at Brand Finance.

“The development is disastrous for the company’s short-term financial position and its short-term brand value,” Mr. Haigh said.

This, he said, will hurt Samsung’s full-year results, its outlook for 2017 and the international ranking of its brand in 2017.

The company didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.

“The whole issue surrounding the Galaxy Note 7 is hurting Samsung’s brand image and its brand equity,” said Jeongwen Chiang, professor of marketing at the China Europe International Business School in Shanghai.

However, Samsung is in a good financial position to deal with the crisis, according to the experts. “They have deep pockets,” Mr. Chiang said.

In September, Samsung held cash reserves of around $23 billion. By selling shares in four technology firms in mid-September, the company added a further $888.9 million to its books.

Despite that, the company’s results will suffer on two fronts, analysts said. Samsung will need to spend additional money on developing a replacement model and invest in advertising and marketing.

At the same time, overall sales are likely to go down.

Samsung’s failure to fix the problem during the initial recall is amplifying the problem, said Xiaohan Tay, senior market analyst at IDC in Beijing. “That’s the greatest problem and the reason why consumer confidence has been killed,” Mr. Tay said.

This will affect not only Samsung sales in the premium product range but also in lower and medium product categories, Mr. Tay said. “Consumers will naturally fear that the same problem might occur with other products,” he said.

The incident comes amid increasing competition and slowing sales in the global smartphone market. “The effect will be downward pressure on Samsung shipment volumes across the board,” said Ian Fogg, head of the mobile and telecom unit at IHS Markit in London.

“Samsung will likely respond by offers to incentivize sales, which will cut into profitability,” Mr. Fogg said. “At the high end, it will increase marketing.”

Especially in China, the world’s most important smartphone market, customers are likely to shun Samsung smartphones, Mr. Chiang said. “Samsung had told its customers in China before that there would be no recall although there were reports of devices catching fire,” he said. “That made a lot of Chinese consumers upset because they felt as if they were treated like second-class customers.”

Nevertheless, experts think that the brand will be able to recover over time. “The Galaxy Note 7 does not have to be catastrophic for the long-term brand value,” Mr. Haigh said.

The company, he said, had a strong reputation for reliability before the incident, he said.

“Samsung used to be one of the strongest brands in the world,” Mr. Haigh said.