http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/714464/European-Union-migrant-crisis-immigration-quota-Hungary
111
11
GETTY Mr Rogan claims that accepting more migrants will bring fresh terror fears to the continent

Antal Rogan, the minister in charge of the cabinet office, claims that accepting more migrants will bring fresh terror fears to the continent and will see a drop in public safety. The politician added that just because Hungary is in the European Union, it does not mean it is controlled by it and will raise it voice against the bloc “bad decisions”. His comments come just a week before the country will take to the polls in a referendum to keep the decision on whether to accept more refugees in their hands - not Brussels’. The call for a referendum comes after Hungary found itself in the epicentre of the migrant crisis last year, after thousands of refugees trying to reach Germany flooded the streets of Budapest and tried to set up make shift camps.

GETTY The referendum comes after Hungary found itself in the centre of the migrant crisis

The EU had demanded Hungary take 1,294 refugees but the country refused to oblige to the quota system from the start and voted against it. Hungary has accepted no refugees under the plan. Speaking today, Mr Rogan drew attention to the fact that even in Germany thousands of immigrants have been settled in towns and villages rather than in migrant camps. He said: “We are in greater danger than we imagine. Immigrants would be assigned to every Hungarian settlement if the compulsory relocation quota was introduced. “Brussels have also decided to simplify family reunification for migrants, meaning we can easily multiply the number in the quota by three, four or even five.

GETTY The EU had demanded Hungary take 1,294 refugees

We should learn from the mistakes in the past and this we should clearly say: We don’t want immigrants in our country Antal Rogan

“If we multiply the total number of immigrants who have arrived in Europe by this number then the result is already that we would have to admit tens of thousands of people.” The politician also stated that immigration will only bring hardships to Europe, as it is a “huge economical burden” and will lead to social tensions within communities. He added: “The social expenses will grow immensely, and the integration will lead to tension in the society. “It also raises the danger of terrorist attacks and will deteriorate public safety. We should learn from the mistakes in the past and this we should clearly say: We don’t want immigrants in our country.“

Migrant Crisis Revisited: Then and Now Wed, July 27, 2016 In these composite images, a comparison has been made between a scene at a key location during the height of the 2015 migrant crisis last year and the situation there now Play slideshow Getty Images 1 of 11 In this composite image a comparison has been made between a scene at a key location during the height of the 2015 migrant crisis last year and the situation there now

The European Parliament would begin debating the quota package in October and, based on the ruling they have already brought, compulsory relocation would begin in the Member States as soon as 1 December. But Hungary opposes the plans - and it is believed two-thirds of the electorate will head to their polling stations next week to vote ‘no’ against the quotas. Billboards have appeared across Hungary proclaiming that Brussels plans to relocate a city's worth of potential terrorists to the country - which may have a strong influence on voters after a nail bomb exploded in Budapest.

GETTY Orban believes that if the referendum is a successful one, then it will start a domino effect

GETTY The result of the referendum will have repercussions for the EU