http://nation.com.pk/international/07-Oct-2016/security-council-recommends-guterres-for-next-un-chief
114
11
UNITED NATION - The United Nations Security Council on Thursday formally approved former Portuguese Prime Minister Antonio Guterres to be the next Secretary-General, recommending that the 193-member General Assembly appoint him for five years from Jan.

1, 2017.



The General Assembly is likely to meet next week to approve the appointment of Guterres, 67, who would replace Ban Ki-moon, 72, of South Korea.

Ban will step down at the end of 2016 after serving two terms.



Guterres was prime minister of Portugal from 1995 to 2002 and served as United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees from 2005 to 2015.



"His experience as Portuguese prime minister, his wide knowledge of world affairs, and his lively intellect will serve him well in leading the United Nations in a crucial period," Ban told reporters during a visit to Rome.



Guterres's nomination was unanimously agreed by all 15 council members during a closed-door meeting at the UN on Thursday.

Afterwards, Russia's UN ambassador Vitaly Churkin said Guterres had "great credentials" for the job.



"He is a person who talks to everybody, listens to everybody, speaks his mind, a very outgoing, open person so I think it was a great choice and I'm glad that we rallied around Mr Guterres," he told reporters.



Guterres entered politics in 1976 in Portugal's first democratic election after five decades of dictatorship.



He became leader of the Socialist party in 1992 and was elected prime minister in 1995.



As head of the UNHCR refugee agency from 2005 to 2015, Guterres was at the forefront of some of the world's worst refugee crises, including Syria, Afghanistan, Iraq.



But despite Guterres' breadth of appeal and experience, many had hoped the top job would go to a woman.



Out of 13 candidates, seven were women; some arguably even more experienced than Guterres.



Female contenders in the race included the former prime minister of New Zealand, the director general of UN cultural agency UNESCO, the Moldovan deputy prime minister and a senior EU official.



In August, the outgoing UN Secretary General, Ban Ki-moon, said it was "high time" for a female head, after more than 70 years of the UN and eight male leaders.



But those who wanted to see a woman elected were disappointed by Wednesday's result, calling it a "disaster for gender equality".



The Campaign to Elect a Woman UN Secretary-General, a group of mostly academics who supported the female candidates up for nomination, called it an "outrage".

"There were seven outstanding female candidates and in the end it appears they were never seriously considered," the campaigners said in a statement.



One of the contenders, Christiana Figueres, a key architect of the global climate change agreement signed in Paris last year, called the result "bittersweet".

Some of the candidates have said gender was a factor.



Susana Malcorra, Argentina's foreign minister, complained last month that women did not have a chance in the Security Council.



"It's not a glass ceiling; it's a steel ceiling," she said, according to Foreign Policy magazine.



On Wednesday, after congratulating her rival on his win on Twitter, Ms Malcorra went on to say that gender remains an issue in the election of a secretary general.

But other candidates downplayed the role of sexism or gender in the race.



Helen Clark, New Zealand's former prime minister, said: "If you're asking whether women are being discriminated against - no.

"There are a lot of factors swirling around.

There is east-west, there is north-south, there's the style of what's wanted in the job.

Do they want strong leadership? Do they want malleable? It's all cross-cutting and we don't know what will come in the wash.

"

Some say that, whether you are a male or female candidate, politicking and so-called backroom deals are the biggest factors in determining who is finally nominated.



The Woman SG Campaign said in its statement that this week's result "represents the usual backroom deals that still prevail at the UN".



But, Samantha Power, the US Ambassador to the UN, described the result as "remarkably" uncontroversial, calling him a candidate "whose experience, vision, and versatility across a range of areas proved compelling".



(ENDS)/ia