http://ewn.co.za/2016/09/26/MMA-labels-SABC-board-as-incompetent-following-Motsoeneng-saga
112
11
Motsoeneng continues to report for work at the SABC although the role he now has is still unclear.

JOHANNESBURG - Media Monitoring Africa says the South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) board should have foreseen the possibility of Hlaudi Motosoeneng's permanent appointment as COO being set aside and come up with a suitable way to address such an outcome.

Last week, the Supreme Court of Appeal dismissed an application for leave to appeal against an earlier ruling that nullified Motsoeneng's permanent appointment.

Following the court ruling, his lawyer Zola Majavu said the decision only set aside his position as COO and would have no effect on his general employment at the broadcaster.

Motsoeneng continues to report for work at the SABC although the role he now has is still unclear.

Media Monitoring Africa's William Bird says the lack of clarity about the conditions of Motsoeneng's employment raises concerns about the competence of the board.

"They must have, like any good corporate governance body would, have said 'okay if they clearly dismissed us, our response is going to be what exactly' and it looks as though they were caught completely unaware, which again suggests that they're incompetent."

MOTSOENENG MUM ON BONUS CLAIMS

As Motsoeneng refuses to confirm claims he's been paid a massive bonus, a SABC board member, Krish Naidoo, says if he has in fact received money, then the National Treasury must intervene.

It's being reported that Motsoeneng has been paid between R10 million and R11 million.

Naidoo says he doesn't know if Motsoeneng has received a huge bonus but says that if he has, that payment must be illegal.

He also says that any payment like that would also mean, the National Treasury must now intervene in the situation.

Motsoeneng himself says he has no comment to make on whether he's received this money.

Meanwhile, SABC board chairperson Mbulaheni Maguvhe has for the fourth time in less than a week refused to comment on Motsoeneng and what role he's playing at the SABC and whether the board intends to defy the court's decision.

Last week, the Presidency said that government respects court decisions, while Public Protector Advocate Thuli Madonsela said that any senior SABC job for Motsoeneng would violate the spirit of the judge's decision.