http://ewn.co.za/2016/09/26/Still-no-word-from-SABC-on-what-role-Motsoeneng-plays
110
11
There is still no confirmation from the SABC on the role that Hlaudi Motsoeneng is playing at the broadcaster.

JOHANNESBURG - As Hlaudi Motsoeneng refuses to confirm claims he's been paid a massive bonus, a South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) board member, Krish Naidoo, says if he has in fact received money, then the National Treasury must intervene.

It's being reported that Motsoeneng has been paid between R10- and R11 million.

There's still no confirmation about the role Motsoeneng is playing at the broadcaster after a court ruled that he cannot continue as chief operating officer.

Naidoo says he doesn't know if Motsoeneng has received a huge bonus but says that if he has, that payment must be illegal.

He also says that any payment like that would also mean, the National Treasury must now intervene in the situation.

Motsoeneng himself says he has no comment to make on whether he's received this money.

Meanwhile, SABC board chairperson Mbulaheni Maguvhe has for the fourth time in less than a week refused to comment on Motsoeneng and what role he's playing at the SABC and whether the board intends to defy the court's decision.

Last week, the Presidency said that government respects court decisions, while Public Protector Advocate Thuli Madonsela said that any senior SABC job for Motsoeneng would violate the spirit of the judge's decision.

ANCYL REMAINS DEFIANT OVER MOTSOENENG

Although Motsoeneng has been reporting for duty at the SABC as an ordinary employee, the ANCYL's Mlondi Mkhize says Motsoeneng belongs at the helm of the broadcaster.

"This is the same person who has assisted the SABC not to get any bailout from government."

However, the ANC's Zizi Kodwa says the SABC must not act against the Supreme Court of Appeal's ruling.

"We expect the SABC to respect the court ruling and to implement the ruling of the court."

While it's emerged that the SABC board has asked communications minister Faith Muthambi to appoint Motsoeneng as acting COO until December, the youth league says if the board fails to do so it will march to the SABC.

ANCYL WANTS MOTSOENENG BACK

The African National Congress Y outh League (ANCYL) has thrown its weight behind Motsoeneng.

The league has held a briefing at Luthuli House following its NEC meeting this past weekend.

In 2014, Madonsela found in a report that Motsoeneng lied about his qualifications when he applied for the post of COO and that he hiked his salary from R1.5 million to R2.4 million and purged senior staff.

Despite the Supreme Court of Appeals' ruling, Motsoeneng reported for duty last week as an "ordinary employee".

It's emerged that that the SABC board has asked Communications Minister Faith Muthambi to appoint Motsoeneng as acting COO until December.

The ANCYL's deputy General Secretary Thandi Moraka said they want Motsoeneng back at the helm.

"We therefore call on the former COO Comrade Hlaudi to re-apply when the post is being re-advertised."

The league said Motsoeneng has assisted the broadcaster greatly in preventing bailouts from government and says if the board doesn't bring him back, the league will march to the broadcaster.