http://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-3819756/I-want-mom-year-Hills-vet-Heidi-Montag-reveals-plans-build-family-Spencer-Pratt-blowing-10m-fortune.html
10
1
Heidi Montag is 'hopeful' that she will get pregnant soon.

The former Hills star and her husband Spencer Pratt want to start a family next year and Heidi, 30, says raising kids will soon be her 'main priority.'

She told Christian website Faithwire: 'I'm getting ready to be a mom hopefully next year.'

Mom and dad? Heidi Montag said she wants to start a family with husband Spencer Pratt; here they are seen in 2015

The MTV star added: 'So that is going to be my main priority and full-time job.'

While Heidi, 30, is desperate to have children, she admitted she had to talk Spencer into it at first.

The blonde beauty said: 'You know, I had to pray to get my husband to even … agree to have a kid and so this whole journey over the last few years … I have had to do.

Their early years: The two were making millions a year thanks to The Hills; here they are pictured in 2006

'You know, it's not so easy, not everyone can just have kids whenever they want. There is a lot of hardship and prayers and certain things you have to put into that.'

Heidi fell on hard times after The Hills ended.

They used to make $2 million a year by appearing on the MTV reality series The Hills and showing up at fancy Hollywood events.

But after years of overspending on frivolous things like $3,000 bottles of wine, $15,000 Hermes purses and $10,000 crystals, Spencer and Heidi have whittled away their fortune, which must have been over $10 million.

The gals of MTV: from left, Audrina Patridge, Montag, Whitney Port and Lauren Conrad of The Hills in 2006

The couple told People that they now very much regret pretending to be high rollers. 'We were keeping up with the Joneses, but we were going against Tom Cruise and Katie Holmes,' Spencer said. 'We should have stayed in our reality TV lane.'

But Heidi is grateful for the hardship she has endured because it made her stronger.

She explained: 'Life is really short and really temporary and when everything goes, all your money, everything you've built your security on, it really makes you face the reality of this life.

Her new life: Heidi is on a budget now. Here she is seen with Jenn Bunney in 2015

'So I'm really thankful I had such a public fall and I spent all my money and everything because it made me remember what I care about and what is important to me and to rebuild. Because of God, I was able to rebuild and refocus.'

Her latest project is a coffee table book.