http://www.dailynews.lk/?q=2016/09/27/local/94226
110
11
The government totally condemns the conduct of Northern Province Chief Minister C.V. Vigneswaren’s attempts to damage the ongoing reconciliation efforts by arousing communal passions in the North, Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Development Minister and UPFA General Secretary Mahinda Amaraweera said.

Addressing a meeting which followed the opening of a new storeyed building at Debokkawa Maha Vidyalaya, Hambantota, he said attempts made to create division and disunity in the country by raising communalism and issuing various statements to such effect during a time when the government was earnestly involved in promoting unity, reconciliation and communal harmony could never be condoned.

“The entire international community highly acclaimed the government’s reconciliation programme during the UN General Assembly 71st sessions held in New York.

In such a situation, the government condemns attempts to create instability in the country by raising communal cries,” he said. He said the views expressed by Vigneswaran did not represent the common sentiment of the Tamil people in the North and East.

Meanwhile, UNP General Secretary and Minister Kabir Hashim yesterday condemned the statement made by Northern Province Chief Minister C.V. Vigneswaran demanding the merger of the Northern and Eastern Provinces and early political solution for Tamils.

He said that Vigneswaran has no right to make such statements as the government is taking all possible efforts to evolve a lasting solution to the ethnic issue.

Social Services and Social Welfare Deputy Minister Ranjan Ramanayake said that the government is not ready to grant what the Northern Province Chief Minister is demanding from time to time.

He said that the Northern Province Chief Minister has resorted to mean tactics to gain popularity among the Tamil community when the government is trying to provide solutions to the problems faced by the Tamil people through negotiations.

Speaking at a press conference at Sirikotha, Ramanayake said that journalists should also refrain from carrying out their duties in a manner that would help fan the flames of racism in the country.