http://www.news.com.au/national/nsw-act/shark-attack-dont-tell-mum-cooper-allen-says-after-great-white-mauls-surfer-off-lighthouse-beach-ballina/news-story/72b038156db8edb90e53fc96947e6950
115
11
Greg Stolz The Daily Telegraph

TEENAGER Cooper Allen, who fought off a 4m great white shark yesterday, is in his hospital bed itching to get back in the surf, mates say.

The 17-year-old’s legs were mauled by a man-eating monster at Lighthouse Beach, Ballina, yesterday while he was surfing with a dozen friends, as he does every morning.

Fresh out of high school, Cooper, who lives across the road from the beach, survived but needed a number of stitches across four large gashes on his leg.

Cooper was a friend of Japanese surfer Tadashi Nakahara, who was killed by a shark in February 2015 at Shelly Beach, and is well known in the Ballina community as a “surfing mad” fearless larrikin.

Friends yesterday revealed Cooper was texting them from hospital, talking about how great the surfing conditions were.

“He’ll be fine,” a school friend, who declined to be named, said.

“When you love surfing as much as he does, nothing will ever stop you from doing it,” he said.

“I think he has a lot of adrenalin right now and it might sink in a bit later. He was so calm at the beach it was a joke.”

OTHER NEWS: TIA PRISON ATTACK - BASHERS CHEERED ON

Cooper Allen suffered serious wounds but miraculously survived the mauling before calmly telling his rescuers: “Call an ambulance … but don’t tell my Mum.”

One witness said the attack was terrifyingly similar to that involving world surfing champion Mick Fanning in South Africa last year, except Cooper was bitten.

But despite the latest attack — the 19th on north coast beaches since 2000 — Ballina Mayor David Wright ruled out successful Gold Coast-style shark nets and baited drumlines, saying: “We’re environmentalists down here.’’

A Ballina local, Cooper and some mates were spending the first day of the school holidays surfing notorious Lighthouse Beach — the scene of two fatal shark attacks in recent years — when the great white struck about 9am.

He thought it was his friend Jae Waters pulling a prank but soon realised he was being attacked.

“It came up and knocked him off his board and started thrashing around,’’ Jae, 14, said. “He was yelling and we called ‘shark’ and tried to get him out of there.’’

Just like Sunshine Coast surf star Julian Wilson, who bravely paddled to Fanning’s rescue after the attack at Jeffrey’s Bay, Jae heroically headed to help his mate.

“The shark bit his leg-rope off and he lost his board,’’ he said.

“We tried to tow him with our leg-ropes but he was swimming — he’s a pretty good swimmer.’’

Another local surfer who went to Cooper’s rescue, Dan Webber, said he was standing in waist-deep water only about 5m away when the shark attacked.

Mr Webber said he saw a large shadow in the water and heard a shout.

“I thought they (Cooper and his mates) were maybe just mucking around,’’ he said. “I could see he’d been separated from his board which was ‘tombstoning’ (dragged down vertically).

“I thought to myself ‘I hope that’s not a shark attack right there’.”

He said he saw a “huge fin” as the shark ­became tangled in Cooper’s leg rope.

Cooper was taken to Lismore Base Hospital, where he was reportedly in good spirits last night and joking with family and friends.

The Baird government recently scrapped a $16 million shark barrier trial at Ballina because of rough seas.

Cooper was among those local surfers who spoke out against the trial, describing it as a waste of money.

3.5m White shark spotted at Lighthouse Beach by NSWDPI aerial team pushed out to sea after attack on male surfer pic.twitter.com/r1NNYIGwMN — SharkSmart (@NSWSharkSmart) September 26, 2016

NSWDPI aerial team alert @slsnsw lifeguards of 3.5m White shark at Lighthouse beach following attack this morning pic.twitter.com/aEbu7yHNzW — SharkSmart (@NSWSharkSmart) September 26, 2016

POLITICS PUTTING OUR LIVES IN DANGER

Neil Keene

A POLITICAL row has broken out over the lack of shark protection on the state’s lethal north coast following a teen surfer’s miraculous escape ­yesterday from the jaws of a monster great white.

Premier Mike Baird said the government was prepared to do “everything we can with the technology available” to curb the bloodshed.

But that didn’t extend to rolling out a beach meshing program like the one already in place off 51 beaches from Newcastle to Wollongong.

“It’s not easy,” Mr Baird said.

“We can’t guarantee at any beach that people will be safe but we will do everything we possibly can.

“Ultimately, that would be a federal government oversight that would require approval.”

However, it is understood no application for new beach meshing has been received by the federal government outside the Newcastle-to-Wollongong zone, and any application would likely be approved.

“We need to work with local communities,” Mr Baird said.

“The mayor previously has not supported that,’’ the Premier added.

The Department of Primary Industries promised to set drumlines off Ballina’s beaches in the wake of yesterday’s attack but local Mayor David Wright said it was not enough.

He called for the immediate installation of buoys that send warnings of a shark’s presence to people on shore.

Known as VR4Gs, the devices are already in place off other parts of the north coast, but only work with sharks that have been tagged.

Mr Wright said the system could be wired to trigger onshore lights and sirens when a tagged shark approached.

He also called for the immediate introduction of a fulltime drone surveillance service, operating from 7am to 5pm daily during the peak swimming season.

“You’d be paying two operators to do it but we just want to make sure we’re doing as much as we can until the other stuff goes in,” Mr Wright said.

DPI trials of different kinds of drone surveillance begin this week off Lighthouse Beach and four other beaches along the NSW coast.

Southern Cross University marine ecologist and leading shark researcher Daniel Bucher said there were no conditions off Ballina yesterday that pointed to an increased likelihood of a shark attack.

“The water is very clear, so it is probably one instance that might have been avoided if the new drone program, or other observation proposals, had been operational,” Dr Bucher told The Daily Telegraph.

Ballina has gained the unenviable reputation as Australia’s “shark alley”, with six serious great white attacks since the start of last year, including one fatality.

Japanese surfer Tadashi Nakahara was mauled to death by a great white at Lighthouse Beach last year.

An aerial patrol of north coast beaches yesterday spotted several “potentially dangerous” sharks.

“None of them posed any threat to swimmers or surfers,” the DPI said.

LIST OF SHARK ATTACKS

2015

February 6, Newcastle (Merewether Beach) — Male bodysurfer bitten on foot by wobbegong shark. Minor lacerations.

February 8, Ballina (Seven Mile Beach) — White pointer attacks surfer Jabez Reitman, 35, about 60m from shore. Chunk of flesh ripped from his back and lacerations to hip.

February 9, Ballina (Shelly Beach) — Japanese surfer Tadashi Nakahara dies after 4m great white severs both legs in an attack close to shore.

May 3, Taree (Saltwater Beach) — Local man treated for serious wounds to his left arm and right hand after attempting to fight off a white pointer about 60m from shore.

July 1, Yamba (Flat Rock) — Great white severs nerves and tendons in male surfer’s hand after attacking as he paddled out through the breakers.

July 2, Ballina (Lighthouse Beach) — 32-year-old bodyboarder Mathew Lee mauled by 4m great white. Serious injuries to both his legs but both limbs saved in emergency surgery.

July 31, Evans Head (Main Beach) — Surfer Craig Ison, 52, attacked by a white pointer during morning surf, suffering serious wounds to his leg and arm.

August 22, Port Macquarie (Lighthouse Beach) — Bodyboarder Dale Carr loses 2.5l of blood after being mauled by 3m great white about 150m from shore.

September 4, Forster (Black Head Beach) — White pointer mauls surf-skier David Quinlivan, 65, as he paddles offshore. Serious wounds to his left ankle.

November 10 — Ballina (Lighthouse Beach) — Champion junior surfer Sam Morgan, 20, seriously injured after 3m bull shark mauls his left thigh.

2016

March 30 — Kiama (Bombo Beach) — Surfer Brett Connellan, 23, loses 70% of his upper left leg and suffers deep wounds to his left hand in a white pointer attack about 100m from shore.

September 26 — Ballina (Lighthouse Beach) — 17-year-old surfer rushed to hospital with serious leg wounds after being mauled shortly before 9am.

How can Australia curb shark attacks? 2:20 As the shark attack capital of the world, pressure is growing to find a solution to Australia's increasing shark attacks.