http://www.vanguardngr.com/2016/09/apc-pdp-differ-chidi-lloyds-murder-trial/
110
11
By Jimitota Onoyume

PORT HARCOURT—All Progressives Congress, APC and Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in Rivers State, yesterday, disagreed over the trial of a former member of the state House of Assembly and chieftain of APC, Mr Chidi Lloyd.

Chairman of APC in the state, Dr Davies Ikanya, who spoke yesterday, in Port Harcourt, condemned the reopening of the case on the fracas in the state House of Assembly involving Lloyd, adding that it was the first time the state government will revisit a matter that had been entered as nolle prosequi in the state.

He expressed worry over the alleged unhealthy interference with the judicial system in the state, alleging that laws were no longer obeyed in the state.

Calling on Nigerians to intervene to protect the judiciary from alleged manipulations, Ikanya also condemned last week’s attack on Lloyd’s residence in Emohua Local Government Area of the state.

He said that some suspected sponsored political thugs stormed the residence of Lloyd, last week, destroying valuables.

According to him, the thugs were armed and they detonated dynamites in the compound, thus damaging some of the buildings in the place.

The APC boss in the state also flayed militants’ attack on a facility in Bonny, Rivers State, weekend, saying all hands should be on deck to rescue the nations economy.

Meanwhile, the PDP has described as unfortunate efforts by the APC to defend Lloyd standing trial on murder charges.

Publicity Secretary of the party in the state, Mr Nwanosike Sam, said that the nolle prosequi does not acquit an accused, adding that an “Accused could still he prosecuted for the same set of facts for which a nolle prosequi had been entered.

“That is why no innocent person accepts a nolle. He rather stands trial to allow his guilt or innocence to be determined.”

“The current Attorney General of Rivers state has in exercise of the same constitutional powers contained in section 211 of the 1999 constitution by which the nolle prosequi was entered commenced proceedings against Chidi Lloyd. What is wrong in Chidi Lloyd standing trial for an attempted murder that the whole world saw him commit.

“The Attorney General of Rivers State will not dignify Ikanya with any response to his allegations that can only emanate,” he said.