http://dev.thedailystar.net/backpage/shortages-worsen-fresh-strikes-hit-aleppo-1290376
111
11
Residents of Syria's Aleppo faced worsening food and medical shortages yesterday as warplanes again bombed the city after Western powers at the UN accused Russia of war crimes.

A fresh wave of intensive air strikes hit the city's opposition-controlled east from dawn yesterday, an AFP correspondent in the city said, on the morning after Moscow and Damascus faced fierce criticism at the UN Security Council.

Moscow hit back at the accusations yesterday, with Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov denouncing "the overall unacceptable tone and rhetoric of the representatives of the United Kingdom and the United States, which can damage and harm our relations".

The worst violence to hit the divided city in years continued, with residents warning that stores of food and vital medical supplies were dwindling to nothing.

Yesterday's air strikes were particularly heavy on two rebel-held districts, Al-Mashhad and Sayf al-Dawla, and sparked large fires, the AFP correspondent said.

The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, a Britain-based monitor, said "dozens of raids" had hit districts of east Aleppo after midnight on Sunday, with many wounded and at least two civilians killed.

It was the fourth day of intense air raids on the city since a defiant Syrian regime launched a new assault, vowing to retake all of Aleppo following the collapse early last week of a short-lived ceasefire brokered by Russia and the United States.

The Observatory said yesterday that at least 128 people, nearly all civilians, had been killed in Syrian and Russian raids on eastern Aleppo since late Thursday.

Among the dead were 20 children and nine women, said Observatory director Rami Abdel Rahman.

At least 36 civilians, including 11 children and five women, were also killed in raids targeting rural areas of Aleppo province, he said.

A Syrian military source told AFP regime forces had no intention of letting up on rebel-held areas.

"The air force will bomb any terrorist movements, this is an irreversible decision," the source said, reiterating that the regime's goal was to "recapture all regions of Syria" outside its control.

A medical source in rebel-held Aleppo said hospitals were struggling to deal with a huge number of casualties.

"Hospitals that are still in service are under a lot of pressure due to the significant number of wounded in recent days, and the major shortage of blood," the source told AFP.

"Because of this, serious injuries are requiring immediate amputations," he said.

With Aleppo back under siege since regime forces again fully surrounded the city in early September, residents were having to deal with food shortages and skyrocketing prices as well as intensifying violence.