http://www.express.co.uk/news/uk/719998/john-woodcock-emily-thornberry-russian-war-crimes-syria-debate
112
11
MPs, including Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson, gathered in Parliament for a three-hour debate on Russia’s air strikes in Syria. John Woodcock vented his frustrations after shadow foreign secretary Emily Thornberry was heckled during her speech by fellow Labour MPs during the Commons debate. Ms Thornberry received a frosty reception from MPs as she delivered her four-point plan to help bring an end to the war in Syria. She also clashed with fellow Labour MPs while discussing ceasefires in the region.

PARLIAMENT TV John Woodcock slammed Emily Thornberry and other Labour MPs for not criticising Russian 'war crimes'

I have to say shame on members of my party who fail to acknowledge that grotesque crime John Woodcock

The MP for Islington South and Finsbury insisted she is “not a pacifist” and believes in using military force “where military force can be effective”. Her views brought anger from various members of the House, as many of Mr Corbyn's supporters opposed military intervention in Syria last year. but Mr Woodcock was perhaps the most vocal during a passionate speech about the mounting humanitarian crisis in Syria, and Russia's role in it. The MP for Barrow and Furness said Vladimir Putin had “stuck two fingers up” to the UN and the international community over the bombing on an aid convoy near Aleppo in September. Mr Woodcock condemned the “grotesque war crimes” which left 20 aid workers and one civilian dead as they attempted to deliver aid to the 78,000 civilians in the besieged city.

GETTY MPs gathered to discuss Russia's bombing of an aid convoy in September

PARLIAMENT TV Boris Johnson called for protests outside of the Russian embassy in London

He adamantly said there was "no doubt as to who were the perpetrators of this grotesque war crime". "It was President Putin of Russia and he was sticking two fingers up to the United Nations, to the international community which he still has the audacity to claim he is a working part," he told the House. "President Putin is a classic bully, and bullies must be stood up to." He also launched a scathing attack on his fellow Labour MPs, who he claims have failed to acknowledge the “grotesque crime”.

Aleppo under siege Thu, October 13, 2016 *WARNING GRAPHIC CONTENT* Devastating pictures showing the aftermath of the Syrian explosions. Play slideshow AMC 1 of 19 Young Syrian boy Omran Daqneesh, aged five, was injured during airstrikes in Aleppo

He said: "I have to say shame on anyone – from the UN official report downwards to members of this house to members of my party who fail to acknowledge that grotesque crime was a war crime. "I hear these platitudes about bread not bombs, but when the bombs are destroying the bread and when the people that are making these platitudes are actually obstructing the possibility of any peace in the region – I say they are directly complicit in what is happening." Mr Johnson told the Commons Russia risked becoming an international "pariah" following its attacks in Syria.