http://www.philstar.com/headlines/2016/08/23/1616350/dilg-there-proof-vs-2-narco-generals
112
11
MANILA, Philippines - More than a month after President Duterte accused five police generals of being protectors of drug dealers, Interior Secretary Ismael Sueno yesterday said there is strong evidence so far only against Joel Pagdilao and Edgardo Tinio.

“For the two – maybe I can already mention Generals Pagdilao and Tinio – we are ready with the prima facie case against them, which I will sign when I get back to my office,” Sueno told a press briefing at Malacañang.

He explained his office is “still gathering evidence” against Chief Supt. Bernardo Diaz, former regional police director of Western Visayas. The collation work is taking some time because the pieces of evidence are being gathered from the regions and not in Manila, Sueno said.

“But we are sure we have the goods on him, we have evidence against him,” Sueno added.

As for Vicente Loot, a former police general turned mayor of Daanbantayan town in Cebu, Sueno said his office has “canceled his licenses or permit to own guns” – an order that also applies to his bodyguards.

“Since he is a new mayor, we cannot come up with evidence (to charge him) administratively… What we are doing is we are conducting lifestyle check on him to find (if) his assets are proportionate to his income. That is our strategy,” Sueno said.

Headlines ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1

Pressed on what cases would be filed against Pagdilao and Tinio, Sueno told reporters to just wait.

On the implication of former general Marcelo Garbo as protector of the drug ring, Sueno said Garbo is neither on active duty nor an elected local government official, so the Criminal Investigation and Detection Group was tasked to handle the case.

All five generals have denied the charges against them.

But Duterte said he was compelled to reveal their names since they have “in one way or another contributed to the deterioration of law and order in this country.”

He claimed their involvement in the illegal drug trade has been validated many times.

“It’s saddening because the state funded their education. You gave them uniform, socks and spent (money). By any language, it is really treason,” the President added.

‘Case buildup vs Espinosa continues’

Sueno also said the Department of the Interior and Local Government (DILG) legal and legislative liaison service was working on its case against Albuera Mayor Ronald Espinosa Sr. for his alleged involvement in the illegal drug trade.

Sueno maintained that the DILG is doing its best to keep the highest standard of service in all government offices.

The DILG chief issued the statement following the return of Espinosa as mayor of Albuera town in Leyte last Aug. 16 after Duterte identified Espinosa as being involved in drugs. – With Cecille Suerte Felipe