http://www.news.com.au/world/north-america/trump-slams-republicans-for-giving-zero-support-to-his-campaign-despite-his-claims-he-won-second-debate-in-a-landslide/news-story/7a86551a9d9e2a816cb1cf3d9284423a
111
11
Video

Image Republican Leadership Split on Trump 1:49 A recently released video containing lewd comments by Donald Trump from 2005 has caused an uproar from many politicians and candidates in the GOP. WSJ's Gerald F. Seib explains how two prominent Republicans, Paul Ryan and Reince Priebus, are managing the fallout. Photo: AP

Staff writers News Corp Australia Network

DONALD Trump says that Republican House Speaker Paul Ryan and other party members are hurting his campaign more than Hillary Clinton.

Trump sent out a tweet saying that despite “winning the second debate in a landslide (every poll), it is hard to do well when Paul Ryan and others give zero support!”

He then fired off another tweet calling Mr Ryan a “very weak and ineffective leader” and claimed Republicans “went wild at his disloyalty.”

The tweet comes a day after Mr Ryan effectively abandoned Trump. The party nominee also claimed the Democrats are “far more loyal to each other than Republicans” and that “disloyal republicans are far more difficult than Crooked Hillary.”

Despite winning the second debate in a landslide (every poll), it is hard to do well when Paul Ryan and others give zero support! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 11, 2016

Our very weak and ineffective leader, Paul Ryan, had a bad conference call where his members went wild at his disloyalty. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 11, 2016

It is so nice that the shackles have been taken off me and I can now fight for America the way I want to. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 11, 2016

With the exception of cheating Bernie out of the nom the Dems have always proven to be far more loyal to each other than the Republicans! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 11, 2016

Disloyal R's are far more difficult than Crooked Hillary. They come at you from all sides. They don’t know how to win - I will teach them! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 11, 2016

A statement by Mr Ryan’s spokesman called on Trump to focus on the race instead of Twitter rants.

“Paul Ryan is focusing the next month on defeating Democrats, and all Republicans running for office should probably do the same,” he said.

He told Republican politicians on a conference call on Monday that he would not campaign for Trump and would focus instead on helping the party keep control of the House.

It wasn’t clear what polls Trump was referring to, but after the first debate he cited unscientific online surveys.

The head of the Republican National Committee, Reince Priebus, said he’s in full co-ordination with the embattled presidential nominee.

Forty Republican senators and congressmen have revoked their support for Trump, and nearly 30 of them have called on him to quit the race.

Trump continued his Twitter rant a few hours after his initial onslaught, targeting Senator John McCain.

The very foul mouthed Sen. John McCain begged for my support during his primary (I gave, he won), then dropped me over locker room remarks! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 11, 2016

McCain had given his support to Trump despite the Republican nominee saying he wasn’t a war hero.

That changed after the so-called locker room comments became public.

Few were enthusiastic supporters to begin with, but the last straw was a video of Trump using predatory language to describe his approach with women.

New Jersey Governor Chris Christie said overnight that he still supports Trump though he describes his crude comments as “completely indefensible.”

It comes as rumours surfaced of more damaging tapes where Trump has been caught being disparaging of others.

Geraldo Rivera: I have more Trump tapes

Geraldo Rivera, who has long enjoyed a close relationship with Trump, having come second on Celebrity Apprentice, said he has tapes of more “embarrassing” statements of the Republican nominee.

“I have interviewed Donald Trump many times and been with him many times, and I have tapes,” Rivera said on special edition of Fox News’ The Five on Sunday. “My brother and I have been starting to go through the tapes now and there are statements that, in the context of the current climate, would be embarrassing.”

He would not say whether or not he would release the tapes that he claims to have.

Meanwhile, Deadline reports Hillary Clinton will visit Ellen DeGeneres’ show on Friday — her first interview since Sunday’s second presidential debate with Trump.