http://www.dailymail.co.uk/wires/afp/article-3833132/Kenyan-police-arrest-Briton-Shabaab-recruitment-probe.html
110
11
Kenyan police have arrested a British man and two Somali women on suspicion of recruiting for Somalia's Islamist Shabaab militants.

The man, named as Tom James, 32, works for M&C Saatchi and his previous projects include counter-terrorism projects in Somalia .

A huge team of armed officers swooped on his home in the affluent Nairobi suburb of Gigri on Tuesday.

Three are in custody in Kenya suspected of recruiting for Somalia's Islamist Shabaab militants ©Simon Maina (AFP/File)

James, who graduated from the University of Leeds, left the UK to work in Africa in the Middle East and Before was an English teacher in Syria while learning Arabic at Damascus University, The Telegraph reports.

Part of his most recent work was a radio campaign to stop young people being dragged into extremism, the paper said.

It is understood police found Al-Shabaab literature and books when it raided the luxury home.

A police source said: 'We have three suspects in custody and one of them is British.

'We are still interrogating them with a view to taking them to court tomorrow,' one police source said.

'They are being investigated for radicalisation.'

Another source said the three were suspected of 'recruiting Kenyan youths to join Al Shabaab.'

'They are strong indications that they have travelled to and from Somalia on several occasions and the investigations will be centred on that aspect,' he added.

Michael Adebolajo, jailed for life for brutally murdering Fusilier Lee Rigby in Woolwich back in 2013, was a suspected member of Al-Shabaab

The raid was carried out in the presence of the director of Kenya's Criminal Investigations Department Ndegwa Muhoro, sources said.

The Al-Qaeda backed Shabaab has fought to overthrow the internationally-backed Somalian government in Mogadishu since 2007, but turned its sights on Kenya when the army was sent into Somalia in 2011 to fight the Islamic insurgents.

In November 2014 gunmen flagged down a commuter bus, separated passengers by religion and executed 28 non-Muslims.

Since then the militants have targeted civilians in different parts of Kenya, including a dramatic assault on Nairobi's Westgate shopping mall in which at least 67 people were killed and the murder of 148 people at Garissa University in the northeast in 2015.

Michael Adebolajo, jailed for life for brutally murdering Fusilier Lee Rigby in Woolwich back in 2013, was a suspected member of Al-Shabaab.