http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2016/10/11/american-who-ran-mail-order-suicide-scam-convicted-of-causing-br/
112
11
An American man who ran a fraudulent suicide-by-post business has been convicted of posting a fatal dose of potassium cyanide to a Briton in an attempt to prevent him exposing details of the scam to the FBI.

A jury in Bangor, Maine, found Sidney Kilmartin, 54, guilty of of witness tampering, wire fraud, mail fraud and mailing an injurious substance which resulted in the death of Andrew Denton, 49, from Hull in on December 31 2012.

Kilmartin was acquitted of a charge of witness retaliation.

Mr Denton was one of a number of disenchanted customers who had been defrauded by a bogus mail order suicide business set up by Kilmartin.

But unlike others, he complained to the FBI and it cost him his life.

Kilmartin had set up his scam by posing as a goldsmith to buy 100 grams of potassium cyanide for $127.56 (£105) from a company which provided chemicals to industrial clients in September 2012.

He then sought out suicidal clients by posting on the website “wantdeathblogspot” that he had cyanide available.

Clients from around the world were invited to contact him by email on a dedicated Google account.

They were instructed to send wire payments via Western Union or PayPal on the understanding that they would receive the cyanide in return.

But instead of sending cyanide Kilmartin, who had received at least $750 from customers, sent Epsom salts, which are more commonly used as a laxative.

Mr Denton, who had made a number of suicide attempts and was especially grief stricken following the death of his girlfriend, took the Epsom salts and suffered no ill effects beyond nausea.

Angered at being defrauded, Mr Denton complained to the authorities, which triggered an FBI investigation into the Kilmartin enterprise.

He also told Kilmartin he had done so.

Kilmartin’s response was to plead with Mr Denton to withdraw his complaint and to send him a second package, to "make it up to him".

This package, containing enough potassium cyanide to kill 20 people, arrived in Britain on Dec 20 2012.

"That is a lot of death and destruction," said Halsey Frank, prosecuting.

Mr Denton took the fatal dose 11 days later, warning in a suicide note that the small plastic pouch containing the remnants of the consignment contained the lethal drug.

“Sidney Kilmartin devised this malicious scheme to take advantage of the most vulnerable people," Mr Frank added.

"When one of them had the audacity to complain about it, he killed him."

He added: "This was not just a fraud for money. This was a fraud for spite, this was particularly mean spirited and fraudulent.”

Drawing a distinction between those who received Epsom salts and Mr Denton, who was sent potassium cyanide, Mr Frank added: "He toyed with them. He chose who got to live, who got death."

Martin Ridge, defending, said Kilmartin could not be held responsible for the Briton's death.

"Mr Denton died in the exact manner he wished to die. Mr Denton's death was caused by Mr Denton's actions,” he said.

Kilmartin had pleaded guilty to five counts of wire fraud and four counts of mail fraud in connection with his sending Epsom salts to at least five other people.

Sentencing was adjourned.