http://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-3831593/Hatchet-job-Brock-Channel-Ten-s-mini-series-car-racing-legend-continues-slammed-frustrated-viewers-Twitter.html
112
11
The second half of Channel Ten's mini-series about the legend of past racing legend Peter Brock has been dragged through the mud by fans.

Viewers took to social media on Monday night to express their disappointment after watching the two-hour special, accusing the biopic of doing injustice to the late racer's legacy.

'Hatchet job on #Brock...pretty safe to assume his personal life was a bit of a mess but still...gotta balance it with a few positives surely (sic),' one frustrated fan wrote.

Scroll down for video

Disappointing: Fans took to Twitter on Monday night to express their disdain for Channel Ten's Brock mini-series, starring Matt Le Nevez and Natalie Bassingthwaighte (pictured)

'Hatchet job': One viewer slammed the network for only focusing on the late Peter Brock's life scandals rather than the positives

Another viewer was also displeased with the dramatisation of the life of the man known as Peter Perfect.

'I understand that producers of #Brock fictionalised some events for dramatic effect but it so far removed from fact that it's just bulls***,' the viewer wrote.

Meanwhile, hardcore racing fans weren't impressed by the tele-movie's focus on Brock's love life.

Unrealistic: Someone else accused the mini-series of going way too far beyond the facts when depicting the star's life

'Destroyed': Another fan wasn't impressed with the focus on Brock's love life over his professional achievements

'Poor form @channelten - u destroyed #Brock legend by showing a 1-sided 'love' story. More 'romance' than racing. What rot. #disappointing (sic),' one particular fan wrote.

'Reckon the channel ten writers smoked Brock's crystals while they wrote this #4hoursunevergetback #brock (sic),' someone else said, referring to the crystals used by the former Holden star to improve the performance of his vehicles.

The social media backlash comes after Brock's former publicist Tim 'Plastic' Pemberton publicly criticised the TV event.

Lost time: Another fan complained about wasting their time on watching the poorly-written series

'I don't think they captured the real Brock': Peter Brock's former publicist Tim 'Plastic' Pemberton (pictured) also slammed the TV biopic of the racing legend

Although Pemberton applauded the accuracy in the way they recreated the period in racing history, he criticised the makers' ability to represent the man himself.

'He was very articulate and very funny,' Tim revealed to News.com.au, before adding, 'I don't think they've captured the real Brock'.

Peter's friends, family and fans have defended the racing legend, amid social media backlash of the series' 'pathetic' portrayal of him.

'It's the most pathetic c**p I've ever seen': Chief mechanic for the Holden Dealer Team from 1969 to 1976, Ian Tate, said he felt he had wasted two hours watching the biopic

Chief mechanic for the Holden Dealer Team from 1969 to 1976, Ian Tate, said that after speaking to Peter's step-son James Brock, the pair agreed it was 'poorly done'.

'He not impressed and I don't think his mother [Bev] is. It's the most pathetic c**p I've ever seen.

'It's not even a B-grade movie, I thought it was put together by a pack of uni students.'

Bad wrap: Fans have been vocal about their criticisms of the show, slamming everything from the acting to the scripting

The mini-series made headlines recently when Peter's ex-wife, Michelle Downes, threatened to sue producers if they misrepresented her relationship with Peter.

Ms Downes's lawyers said she was worried the two-part series, Brock, would 'gloss over' her year-long marriage and the domestic violence she allegedly suffered.

Peter's younger brother Phil spoke to Daily Mail Australia on Monday revealing that he saw Peter's relationship with Michelle as a 'blip' on the radar.

'Look, like so many people in life, it was a relationship that didn't work. It's that simple.'

Phil went on to say that he didn't get upset about allegations about Peter and domestic violence and that he liked the first part of the film.