http://www.dailymail.co.uk/wires/ap/article-3826832/Colombian-leader-Juan-Manuel-Santos-wins-Nobel-Peace-Prize.html
112
11
Nobel Prize boosts Colombian leader's pursuit of peace

BOGOTA, Colombia (AP) — By winning the Nobel Peace Prize, President Juan Manuel Santos got a big boost Friday in his efforts to save an agreement seeking to end Colombia's half-century conflict.

The prize, announced by the Norwegian Nobel Committee, puts pressure on both conservative critics and leftist rebels to find a way forward after the shocking defeat of the accord in an Oct. 2 referendum.

Santos dedicated the prize to his fellow Colombians, especially the victims of the bloody conflict, saying it would redouble his commitment to end hostilities that left 220,000 dead and almost 8 million displaced.

Colombia's President Juan Manuel Santos speaks to supporters of the peace deal he signed with rebels of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, FARC, at the presidential palace in Bogota, Colombia, Friday, Oct. 7, 2016, behind a sculpture of a white dove donated by Colombian artist Fernando Botero. Santos won the Nobel Peace Prize Friday, just days after voters narrowly rejected a peace deal. (AP Photo/Fernando Vergara)

"I invite everyone to bring together our strength, our minds and our hearts in this great national endeavor so that we can win the most important prize of all: peace in Colombia," Santos said alongside his wife in his first public appearance after being notified he had won in a pre-dawn phone call from their son.

Colombians are split on their support for the peace deal.

Some see it as the best chance in a generation to halt the conflict with the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC; others are outraged that rebels behind scores of atrocities, from kidnappings to attacks on civilian targets, probably will never spend a day in prison and instead be reserved seats in congress to smooth their transition into a political movement.

The accord's defeat in the referendum by the narrowest of margins — less than half a percentage point — humiliated Santos, especially since polls had predicted it would pass by an almost 2-1 margin. He had signed the deal with the FARC just six days earlier in front of world leaders.

Now he's scrambling to save the accord. This week, he dispatched negotiators to Cuba, to see if the FARC will make additional concessions, and presided over meetings with opponents led by his former ally turned archrival: ex-President Alvaro Uribe.

Uribe, who inflamed widespread hatred of the rebels by warning that the peace deal would take Colombia down the path of communist Cuba, emerged as the big victor in the referendum and is pushing for harsher punishment for the FARC.

But he's been conciliatory so far, and even sent Santos a congratulation of sorts on winning the Nobel.

"I hope it leads to a change in the accords that are damaging for our democracy," Uribe said in a message on Twitter.

Nobody knows how the impasse will end but most analysts agree that a bilateral cease-fire already in place can't endure for too long without resolution. Amid such uncertainty, the Nobel prize gives some oxygen to Santos' efforts, although how much is unknown.

In Bogota's Plaza Bolivar, where thousands gathered Wednesday in the biggest street demonstration in years to demand the peace deal be saved, an activist distributed white daisies symbolizing peace. A small group camped in the plaza since then celebrated with shouts of "Peace deal now!" and "Colombia wants peace!"

"Even though Uribe won the vote, I think Santos has some advantage right now," said Adam Isacson, an analyst at the Washington Office on Latin America who was in Colombia for the referendum.

Nobel committee secretary Olav Njoelstad said there was "broad consensus" on choosing Santos. It was the first time the peace prize has gone to Latin America since 1992, when Guatemalan indigenous rights activist Rigoberta Menchu won. It is Colombia's second Nobel honor after beloved novelist Gabriel Garcia Marquez won for literature in 1982.

But in a departure from its tradition of honoring both sides of a peace process, the five-member committee conspicuously left out Santos' counterpart, rebel leader Rodrigo Londono, from the honor, a move that could further strengthen Santos' hand in wresting concessions from the rebels.

"We're not going to destroy what we've designed, and that has received so much international praise," the FARC's chief negotiator Ivan Marquez said from Havana upon learning of Santos' Nobel.

The rebels and the government on Friday invited the United Nations and regional government to send observers to monitor the cease-fire already in place

Santos, the Harvard-educated scion of one of Colombia's wealthiest families, is an unlikely peacemaker. As Uribe's defense minister a decade ago, he dealt some of the biggest military blows to the FARC, including a 2008 cross-border raid into Ecuador that took out a top rebel commander and the stealth rescue of three Americans held captive by the rebels for more than five years.

Though nominally Marxist, the FARC's ideology has never been well-defined. It has sought to make Colombia's conservative oligarchy share power, and prioritized land reform in a country where millions have been forcibly displaced, mostly by far-right militias in the service of ranchers, businessmen and drug traffickers. The FARC lost popularity as it turned to kidnapping, extortion and taxes on cocaine production and illegal gold mining to fund its insurgency.

Santos and Londono met only twice during the entire peace process: last year when they put the final touches on the most-controversial section of the accord — how guerrillas would be punished for war crimes — and last month to sign the accord.

U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, who was present for the ceremony, called this year's Nobel Peace Prize a "timely message" to all people working toward national reconciliation.

"This award says to them: You have come too far to turn back now. The peace process should inspire our world," he said.

___

Ritter reported from Stockholm. Associated Press writer Mark Lewis contributed from Oslo, Norway.

Colombia's President Juan Manuel Santos is embraced by his wife Maria Clemencia Rodriguez after speaking to journalists at the presidential palace in Bogota, Colombia, Friday, Oct. 7, 2016. Santos won the Nobel Peace Prize Friday, just days after voters narrowly rejected a peace deal he signed with rebels of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, FARC. (AP Photo/Fernando Vergara)

Flowers decorate the statue of independence hero Simon Bolivar at the main square in downtown Bogota, Colombia, Friday, Oct. 7, 2016. President Juan Manuel Santos won the Nobel Peace Prize Friday, just days after voters narrowly rejected a peace deal he signed with rebels of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, FARC. (AP Photo/Fernando Vergara)

Colombia's President Juan Manuel Santos is embraced by his wife Maria Clemencia Rodriguez after speaking to journalists at the presidential palace in Bogota, Colombia, Friday, Oct. 7, 2016. Santos won the Nobel Peace Prize Friday, just days after voters narrowly rejected a peace deal he signed with rebels of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, FARC. (AP Photo/Fernando Vergara)

FILE - In this Sunday, Oct. 2, 2016 file photo Colombia's President Juan Manuel Santos makes the victory sign after voting in a referendum to decide whether or not to support the peace deal he signed with rebels of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, FARC, in Bogota, Colombia. Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos has won Nobel Peace Prize it was announced on Friday Oct. 7, 2016. (AP Photo/Ricardo Mazalan, File)

FILE - In this Wednesday, Oct. 4, 2016 file photo Colombia¿s President Juan Manuel Santos delivers a statement to the press after meeting with former President Alvaro Uribe and other opposition leaders at the presidential palace in Bogota, Colombia. Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos has won Nobel Peace Prize it was announced on Friday Oct. 7, 2016. (AP Photo/Fernando Vergara, File)

FILE - In this Wednesday, Sept. 23, 2015 file photo Cuba's President Raul Castro, center, smiles as Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos, left, and Commander the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia or FARC, Timoleon Jimenez, known as "Timochenko", shake hands, in Havana, Cuba. Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos has won Nobel Peace Prize it was announced on Friday Oct. 7, 2016. (AP Photo/Ramon Espinosa, File)

FILE - In this Monday, Sept. 26, 2016 file photo, Colombia¿s President Juan Manuel Santos, left, and the top commander of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) Rodrigo Londono, known by the alias Timochenko, shake hands after signing a peace agreement between Colombia¿s government and the FARC to end over 50 years of conflict in Cartagena, Colombia. Santos won the Nobel Peace Prize Friday, Oct. 7, for his efforts to end a civil war that killed more than 200,000 Colombians. (AP Photo/Fernando Vergara, File)

Kaci Kullmann Five, chairman of the Nobel Peace Prize award committee, announces the laureate of Nobel Peace Prize 2016, Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos, during an announcement in Olso, Friday Oct. 7, 2016. Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos won the Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts to end a civil war that killed more than 200,000 Colombians. (Heiko Junge NTB scanpix via AP)

Kaci Kullmann Five, chairman of the Nobel Peace Prize award committee, announces the laureate of Nobel Peace Prize 2016, Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos, during a ceremony in Oslo, Norway, Friday Oct. 7, 2016. Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos won the Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts to end a civil war that killed more than 200,000 Colombians. (Heiko Junge NTB scanpix via AP)

FILE - In this Friday, Sept. 30, 2016 file photo a boy shows his hand painted with the word "Yes" in Spanish during an event attended by Colombia's President Juan Manuel Santos to promote the "yes" vote in the upcoming referendum on the peace deal he signed with rebels Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, FARC, in Soacha, in the outskirts of Bogota, Colombia. Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos has won Nobel Peace Prize it was announced on Friday Oct. 7, 2016. (AP Photo/Fernando Vergara)

FILE - In this Friday, Sept. 30, 2016 file photo Colombia's President Juan Manuel Santos speaks during an event to promote the "yes" vote in the upcoming referendum on the peace deal he signed with rebels of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, FARC, in Soacha, on the outskirts of Bogota, Colombia. Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos has won Nobel Peace Prize it was announced on Friday Oct. 7, 2016. (AP Photo/Fernando Vergara, File)

FILE - In this Monday, Sept. 19, 2016 file photo President Juan Manuel Santos of Colombia, left, presents a copy of a peace agreement that was forged in his country to United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon during a meeting at the United Nations headquarters. Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos has won Nobel Peace Prize it was announced on Friday Oct. 7, 2016. (AP Photo/Craig Ruttle)

FILE - In this Thursday, Aug. 25, 2016 file photo Colombia's President Juan Manuel Santos holds the peace deal with rebels of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, FARC after delivering it to Congress in Bogota, Colombia. Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos has won Nobel Peace Prize it was announced on Friday Oct. 7, 2016. (AP Photo/Felipe Caicedo, File)

A Colombian flag and a white flag hang from a building in downtown Bogota, Colombia, Friday, Oct. 7, 2016. Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos won the Nobel Peace Prize Friday, just days after voters narrowly rejected a peace deal he signed with rebels of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, FARC. (AP Photo/Fernando Vergara)

Soldiers of the presidential guard prepare to raise the Colombian flag at the presidential palace in Bogota, Colombia, early Friday, Oct. 7, 2016. Colombia's President Juan Manuel Santos won the Nobel Peace Prize Friday, just days after voters narrowly rejected a peace deal he signed with rebels of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, FARC. (AP Photo/Fernando Vergara)

Colombia's President Juan Manuel Santos holds his hands as he arrives to deliver a statement at the presidential palace in Bogota, Colombia, Friday, Oct. 7, 2016. Santos won the Nobel Peace Prize Friday, just days after voters narrowly rejected a peace deal he signed with rebels of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, FARC. (AP Photo/Fernando Vergara)

A woman places white roses outside a government building to celebrate the Nobel Peace Prize of Colombia's President Juan Manuel Santos in Bogota, Colombia, Friday, Oct. 7, 2016. Santos won the Nobel Peace Prize Friday, just days after voters narrowly rejected a peace deal he signed with rebels of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, FARC. (AP Photo/Ivan Valencia)