http://www.msn.com/en-gb/news/uknews/killer-clown-pictured-lurking-in-mcdonalds-drive-thru-ready-to-scare-families-as-craze-continues-to-sweep-uk/ar-BBxcKC4
114
11
© Provided by Mirror

A 'killer clown' has been spotted lurking around a drive-thru McDonald's as the creepy craze continues to sweep the nation.

The chilling image shows the ghoulish joker hiding behind a sign, ready to scare unsuspecting drivers using the fast food restaurant in the Midlands.

The killer clowns phenomenon started in the US with people dressing up in scary masks and costumes to frighten their unsuspecting victims by jumping out on them.

Horrified parents have shared the photo of the latest prankster in Kidderminster in a bid to warn others, according to the Birmingham Mail .

But it hasn't put all fast food lovers off, with Leah Bubb vowing: "Ain’t no clown stopping me getting chicken nuggets!"

© Provided by Mirror

However, another posted: “This came up on my newsfeed last night, It the McDonalds’s drive through in town- be careful if ur with your children because they are apparently jumping out and scaring people with kids!

“I hope someone reported him because I would have thrown him in the canal!”

The American craze took off in August after police in South Carolina received reports that people dressed as clowns were trying to lure children.

Since then there have been reports across the UK of creepy clowns leaping out of bushes to scare passers-by, lurking in parks or woodland, or even chasing people.

The perpetrators were branded “sick” and “pathetic” by some commentators online.



Loopy Lou Leigh wrote on social media: “Anyone scares my kids I wont be responsible for my actions.”

Robert Washbrook said: “Some people just don’t grow up do they!

“Not got anything better to do with their lives then scare people with a clown suit.

“Yeah nice one your doing well in life...”

Creepy clown map of Britain reveals where sinister incidents are taking place - and it's a northern problem

Police have warned that they will arrest any “killer clown” pranksters, following reports that the craze was spreading.

But while most were horrified by the image, others seemed to see the funny side.

Jay Frost posted: “Oh God. Take a joke.. jeez.”