http://www.express.co.uk/news/politics/713715/George-Osborne-leads-establishment-stitch-up-to-water-down-Brexit
20
2
REUTERS/ GETTY George Osborne insisted the British people had not voted for a

In his first major speech since being sacked from the Government, the former chancellor said the negotiations for Britain leaving the EU are "the most important set of decisions Britain has faced since the Second World War". And in an indication that he will lead the charge to water down the referendum result, he insisted that the British people had not voted for a "hard Brexit". Despite senior figures in the Conservative Party urging Theresa May to fight Britain's corner, Mr Osborne called for the Government to pursue "the closest possible economic and security relationship with our European partners while no longer being formal members of the EU".

Brexit won a majority. Hard Brexit did not George Osborne

He said: “This was not a popular mandate for less free trade or for a more closed economy. “For me, the guiding principle should be this: we should aim for the closest possible economic and security relationship with our European partners while no longer being formal members of the EU.” Mr Osborne, who left his post this summer and returned to the backbenches, said the Brexit vote was "one of the low points" of his time in office and it had "sent shock waves around the world".

The fallen minister wistfully reminisced about his time in office, and revealed how he and David Cameron watched on in horror from their bunker in Downing Street as the regional referendum results were announced live on television. He said: “We shouldn't assume that there is an off-the-shelf arrangement that works for the second largest economy in Europe - I can't see us consenting to the current arrangements around free movement of people that clearly caused such concern in the referendum. “Equally, I find some of the take-or-leave it bravado we hear from those who assume Europe has no option but to give us everything we want more than a little naive.

GETTY Mr Osborne said the Brexit vote was "one of the low points" of his time in office

REUTERS Senior figures in the Conservative Party have urged Theresa May to fight Britain's corner

“We need to be realistic that this is a two-way relationship: that Britain cannot expect to maintain all the benefits that came from EU membership without incurring any of the costs or the obligations. He then added: “There will have to be compromise. “Above all, we need to resist the false logic that leads from exiting the EU to exiting all forms of European co-operation - and that values the dangerous purity of splendid isolation over the practical necessity of co-operation in the real world.

AFP Mr Osborne said he and David Cameron watched the referendum result unfold in horror

“Brexit won a majority. Hard Brexit did not. “The mainstream majority in our country do not want to be governed from the extremes.” Mr Osborne was invited to speak at The Chicago Council on Global Affairs but missed the event after his flight delayed. Instead he delivered his speech at a dinner later in the evening. His remarks were made as EU Parliament chief Martin Schulz jetted into London for Brexit talks with Mrs May at Dowing Street.

Brexit: What does it mean for you? Wed, July 13, 2016 How will pensions, mortgages & house prices be affected by Brexit Play slideshow Getty Images 1 of 11 Brexit: What does it mean for you?