http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3832206/Meth-dealing-daughter-British-aristocrat-shot-dead-amidst-Philippine-president-s-war-narcotics-murdered-ex-boyfriend-drug-money-police-believe.html
112
11
The meth-dealing daughter of a British aristocrat who was shot dead in the Philippines war on narcotics is believed to have been murdered by her ex-boyfriend over drug money.

Police in Manila say they are close to linking the murder of Aurora Moynihan, daughter of Lord Tony Moynihan with a 'high-level' supplier, who was killed last weekend in a shootout with police.

A .40 caliber handgun - the same type of weapon used to kill Aurora, 45, when she stepped out of a car in a dark street in Manila - was recovered from the body of her former boyfriend, Leandro Kanahashi, 33.

Police in Manila say they are close to linking the murder of Aurora Moynihan, p[ictured, daughter of Lord Tony Moynihan with a 'high-level' supplier, who was killed last weekend

Police suspect that Aurora was in the car with Kanahashi before her death and was gunned down when she got out of the vehicle.

Ballistics tests on bullets found in the gun and in Aurora’s body are currently being carried out.

But police said they have evidence that before the pair had a falling out as Aurora was working as Kanahashi’s pusher.

Senior Superintendent Guillermo Eleazar, of Quezon City Police said: 'He is a person of interest in her death.

He added that Aurora's family who include her younger actress sister Maritoni Fernandez - have confirmed that she and Kanahashi were lovers before they had a falling out.

Aurora's body was found on the side of the road in Manila last month. Her death was amidst the Philippine president's war on narcotics

Alongside her body, police found a sign that labelled Aurora a drug dealer and pusher, pictured

That break-up, police believe, was over drug money and it is suspected the argument still simmered as she travelled in a car with Kanahashi before she was shot.

Police checking Aurora’s text messages found that Kanahashi was one of the last people she wrote to, the Philippine Star reported today.

Among the messages on her phone were indications of drug deals, said police.

The Star said that information gathered by police officers revealed that Aurora had acted as a go-between for her boyfriend Kanahashi and buyers of his drugs.

Aurora's family who include her younger actress sister Maritoni Fernandez, pictured, - have confirmed that she and Kanahashi were lovers before they had a falling out

Described as a ‘higher than street-level’ drug dealer, who sold ice and party drugs to the wealthy in Manila's bars and clubs, Kanahashi and an unidentified cohort were killed after a shoot-out with police during a sting on the outskirts of the city last Sunday.

Police Superintendent Wilfredo Tul-O told the Star that the sting was conducted to arrest Kanahashi only because of his alleged drug deals - but the discovery of the .40 caliber handgun, his relationship with Aurora and the possibility that she knew people in the car that drove her to her death has led police to suspect that he was involved in her murder.

Aurora's father, Lord Moynihan, was a Liberal peer and one of the most controversial members of the gentry in modern times.

He died from a heart attack in 1991 in Manila, at the age of 55 after fleeing to the Philippines in the 1970s. By then he had become a fixture of the criminal underworld, brushing shoulders with the Kray brothers and other notorious gangsters.

Aurora's father, Lord Moynihan, pictured was a Liberal peer and one of the most controversial members of the gentry in modern times

Lord Moynihan was a fixture of the criminal underworld, brushing shoulders with the Kray brothers and other notorious gangsters

A brothel owner, confidence trickster, drug trafficker, fraudster, bigamist and enthusiastic bongo and banjo player, the flamboyant Moynihan was married five times and had countless affairs.

Meanwhile Aurora was widowed in 2010 when her husband, Eddie Boy Rocha, the son of a well-known film producer, broke his neck in a fall.

Their two sons, now in their teens and twenties, were brought up partly by their aunts.

She was apparently unable to shake off the effects of her troubled childhood, despite her public school education in Worcestershire.

In 2013, she was arrested in a drugs raid along with seven other suspects. Officers confirmed that she was on a police drug watch list, and she was allegedly part of a syndicate.