http://www.4-traders.com/WENDYS-CO-9691436/news/Wendys-Investigation-finds-officers-followed-policy-23181980/
110
11
An internal investigation by the Roanoke County Police Department found that officers followed policy when they arrested a man earlier this summer in an incident that prompted outcry from community groups.

The arrest of Alvin Anthony Murdock , 34, in late August drew public criticism from several advocacy groups, including Black Lives Matter , the Southern Christian Leadership Conference and Justice for Kionte Spencer , named after a teenager killed by Roanoke County police earlier this year. Group members suggested there was video evidence of a beating and made graphic claims that an officer had placed Taser probes and a flashlight in Murdock's buttocks.

Chief Howard Hall said last month that there was no evidence to corroborate the groups' claims. A segment of the video released to the public days after the arrest did not show an apparent beating.

The department conducted a use-of-force review to determine whether the two officers who arrested Murdock followed policy. Because of the public claims, Hall treated the incident as though a citizen complaint had been filed, prompting the department's professional standards unit to conduct an internal investigation. No complaints were ever filed, police said.

Hall said he met with Roanoke County Commonwealth's Attorney Randy Leach after the incident and they agreed there was no evidence that the officers had committed any criminal actions to warrant a criminal investigation.

No disciplinary actions were taken against the arresting officers, V.G. Branch and A.W. Ayers . They have both been on duty since the arrest.

The arrest happened just before midnight Aug. 28 when someone reported that an unresponsive man was in an idling car in the drive-through lane of the Wendy's in the 4300 block of Electric Road, near Tanglewood Mall . EMS crews who responded called police.

Murdock appeared to be under the influence of alcohol or some other substance when officers woke him and asked him to step out of the vehicle, police said. Police said he presented a false identification. When officers started conducting field sobriety tests, he ran to the back of the neighboring Enterprise Rent-A-Car building.

Hall has said an officer deployed a Taser, with one probe connecting to Murdock's arm and the other one not making contact. Without both probes making contact on the body, the Taser was ineffective. Hall said officers resorted to a hands-on approach, taking Murdock to the ground.

Murdock was taken to a hospital for treatment of minor injuries, police said.

Hall said medical records obtained through a search warrant show Murdock's blood-alcohol content was 0.216 percent - well above the legal driving limit in Virginia of 0.08 percent. Hall said Murdock's injuries were consistent with the nature of his arrest. He had a puncture wound from the Taser and an abrasion on his arm.

Murdock is being held at the Western Virginia Regional Jail on charges of DUI as a third or subsequent offense, obstructing justice and giving false identity to law enforcement officers, according to online records.

County spokeswoman Amy Whittaker said the two witnesses to the encounter "declined multiple requests to be interviewed by detectives."

The only video evidence of the arrest is one recorded by Roanoke resident Khalid Jones , who has said he happened to be nearby when the incident happened. The video does not show an apparent beating. Murdock is heard wailing on the ground as two officers handcuff him. The confrontation takes place under a carport, and the scene is dark.

Jones said Thursday he wasn't surprised to hear the department's findings. He criticized the department for using internal investigations that he believes lean favorably toward officers.

"He wasn't there," Jones said of Hall's presentation of the facts. "He can't tell me what I saw with my own eyes."

Danielle Thomas , the mother of Murdock's children, who spoke out about the arrest, did not respond to a request for comment Thursday.

Hall said that because the officers were not able to park near the car sitting in the drive-through lane, dashboard cameras did not capture any of the encounter. Roanoke County officers are not equipped with body cameras.