http://www.independent.co.uk/news/people/co-writer-of-yes-minister-series-sir-antony-jay-dies-a7206246.html
20
2
Sir Antony Jay, who died at the age of 86 on Sunday evening, was a prime example of an especially British phenomenon, being both a distinguished product and a distinguished critic of the Establishment. He had been suffering from a long illness, a representative of his family said.

He will always be best remembered for his masterful work in co-writing, with Jonathan Lynn, successive series of Yes, Minister and Yes, Prime Minister in the 1980s, comedies that are ageless in their humour.

Sir Antony's establishment credentials were as impeccable as those of any real or fictional senior member of the British civil service, including Sir Humphrey Appleby, the deeply manipulative bureaucrat in Yes, Minister. Educated at St Paul's School, Sir Antony went on to study Classics at Magdalene College, Cambridge, emerging, naturally, with a First. From there, in common with his generation, he went on to National Service in the Royal Signals. After that, he joined the BBC, where he worked on “Talks”, the forerunner of current affairs, in the early 1960s.

Interestingly Sir Antony's first encounters with the Corporation were during the era of the first great British satire boom, with Private Eye and That Was The Week that Was lampooning politicians and marking the beginning of the end of the age of deference. Sir Antony's early career co-incided with the rise to prominence of David Frost, who, like Sir Antony, had a notably nuanced relationship with the Establishment, though Sir Antony’s satires (much later) were not nearly so vicious as Frost’s early ones could be, while Frost ended up marrying into royalty.

Sir Antony did, though, follow his clever and witty parodies of Whitehall with some very straight scripts for respectful documentaries about the House of Windsor - Royal Family and Elizabeth R: A Year in the Life of a Queen. For these he was awarded the honour of Commander of the Royal Victorian Order (CVO), usually reserved for services to the Queen personally. It followed the CBE he was awarded for Yes Minister.

His youthful anti-establishment tendencies, according to Sir Antony shared with much of the then BBC staff, evidently mellowed by the time Margaret Thatcher joyfully wrote her own Yes Minister in 1984. This she was prompted to do as a fan of their work (not necessarily reciprocated) and when she was asked to present Sir Antony and Lynn with a showbiz award. She claimed it constituted the “first episode of Yes, Prime Minister”, which then duly followed. (Mrs Thatcher, in her only acknowledged venture into fiction, envisaged the abolition of the government Economic Service).

Notable deaths in 2016







33 show all Notable deaths in 2016































































1/33 Grand secretary of the Orange Order Drew Nelson died on 10 October aged 60 after a short illness PA

2/33 Aaron Pryor, the relentless junior welterweight died Sunday, Oct. 9, at the age of 60 at his home in Cincinnati after a long battle with heart disease AP

3/33 Polish Director Andrzej Wajda died on October 9, aged 90 Reuters

4/33 Stylianos Pattakos has died following a stroke on 8th October. He was 103 years old. AP

5/33 Dickie Jeeps, was an English rugby union player who played for Northampton. He represented and captained both the England national rugby union team and the British Lions in the 1950s and 1960s. He died on 8th October. He was 84 Getty

6/33 Duke of Westminster Billionaire landowner the Duke of Westminster, Gerald Cavendish Grosvenor has died on 9 August, aged 64 Rex Features

7/33 Christina Knudsen Sir Roger Moore’s stepdaughter Christina Knudsen has died from cancer on 25 July at teh age of 47 Getty Images

8/33 Caroline Aherne The actress Caroline Aherne has died from cancer on 2 July at the age of 52 Getty Images

9/33 Christina Grimmie Christina Grimmie, 22, who was an American singer and songwriter, known for her participation in the NBC singing competition The Voice, was signing autographs at a concert venue in Orlando on 10 June when an assailant shot her. Grimmie was transported to a local hospital where she died from her wounds on 11 June Getty

10/33 Kimbo Slice Former UFC and Bellator MMA fighter Kimbo Slice died after being admitted to hospital in Florida on 6 June, aged 42 Getty

11/33 Muhammad Ali The three-time former heavyweight world champion died after being admitted to hospital with a respiratory illness on 3 June, aged 74 Getty Images

12/33 Sally Brampton Brampton who was the launch editor of the UK edition of Elle magazine has died on 10 May, aged 60 Grant Triplow/REX/Shutterstock

13/33 Billy Paul The soul singer Billy Paul, who was best known for his single “Me and Mrs Jones”, has died on 24 April, aged 81 Noel Vasquez/Getty Images

14/33 Prince Prince, the legendary musician, has been found dead at his Paisley Park recording studio on 21 April. He was 57

15/33 Chyna WWE icon Joan Laurer dies aged 45 after being found at California home on 20 April

16/33 Victoria Wood The five-time Bafta-winning actress and comedian Victoria Wood has died on 20 April at her London home after a short illness with cancer. She was 62

17/33 David Gest The entertainer and former husband of Liza Minnelli, David Gest has been found dead on 12 April in the Four Seasons hotel in Canary Warf, London. He was 62-years-old PA

18/33 Denise Robertson Denise Robertson, an agony aunt on This Morning for over 30 years, has died on 1 April, aged 83

19/33 Zaha Hadid Dame Zaha Hadid, the prominent architect best known for designs such as the London Olympic Aquatic Centre and the Guangzhou Opera House, has died of a heart attack on 31 March, aged 65 2010 AFP

20/33 Ronnie Corbett British entertainer Ronnie Corbett has passed away on 31 March at the age of 85 2014 Getty Images

21/33 Imre Kertesz Hungarian writer and Holocaust survivor Imre Kertesz, who won the 2002 Nobel Literature Prize, has died on 31 March, at the age of 86 REUTERS

22/33 Rob Ford Rob Ford, the former controversial mayor of Toronto, has died following a battle with a rare form of cancer. The 46-year-old passed away at the Mount Sinai Hospital in Toronto on 22 March

23/33 Joey Feek Joey (left) passed away in March after a two-year cancer illness. She was part of country music duo, Joey + Rory, with her husband Rory (right) Jason Merritt/Getty Images

24/33 Umberto Eco Italian writer and philosopher Umberto Eco died 19 February 2016 aged 84 EPA

25/33 Harper Lee Harper Lee, the American novelist known for writing 'To Kill a Mockingbird', died February 19, 2016 aged 89 2005 Getty Images

26/33 Vanity Vanity, pictured performing in 1983, died aged 57 REX Features

27/33 Dave Mirra The BMX legend's body found inside truck with gunshot wound after apparent suicide aged 41

28/33 Harry Harpham The former miner became Sheffield Labour MP in May after many years as a local councillor. He died after succumbing to cancer, at the age of 61.

29/33 Dale Griffin The Mott the Hoople drummer died on January 17, aged 67 REX

30/33 Rene Angelil Celine Dion's husband and manager Rene Angelil has lost his battle with cancer on 14 January, aged 73 2011 Getty Images

31/33 Alan Rickman Legendary actor Alan Rickman has died on 14 January at the age of 69 after battle with pancreatic cancer. He is largely regarded as one of the most beloved British actors of our generation with roles in Love Actually, Die Hard, Michael Collins, and Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves and an illustrious stage career 2015 Getty Images

32/33 Maurice White The Earth, Wind & Fire founder died aged 74. The nine-piece band sold more than 90 million albums worldwide and won six Grammy awards

33/33 Lawrence Phillips Former NFL star found dead in prison cell on 13 January in suspected suicide, aged 40 AFP/Getty Images

More recently, Sir Antony and Lynn revived Yes Prime Minister in the theatre, for a world of 24 hour news, smartphones and ‘sexed up’ dossiers. By that time the more savage The Thick of It, featuring the magnificently foul-mouthed spin doctor Malcolm Tucker, created by Armando Ianucci, was a more fitting reflection of the times, but the debt of honour to the original Yes, Minister, was plain. The originals, the late Paul Eddington as Jim Hacker, the late Nigel Hawthorne as Sir Humphrey – now the generic name of course for any civil service boss - and Derek Fowlds as Bernard Wooley were brilliantly partnered with Lynn and Sir Antony’s inspired writing. Many of the titles of their episodes from three decades ago immediately bring to mind current political personalities – “Compassionate Society” (David Cameron); “Equal Opportunities” (Harriet Harman); “The National Education Service” (suggested for real only last year by Jeremy Corbyn). As ever with gifted writers, their own words speak for themselves, and rarely has the European project been better summed up than this little exchange in 1981:

James Hacker: Europe is a community of nations, dedicated towards one goal.

Sir Humphrey Appleby: [laughs]

James Hacker: May we share the joke, Humphrey?

Sir Humphrey Appleby: Minister, may I?

[sits]

Sir Humphrey Appleby: Let's look at this objectively. It is a game played for national interests and always was. Why do you suppose we went into it?

James Hacker: To strengthen the brotherhood of free Western nations.

Sir Humphrey Appleby: Oh, really. We went in to screw the French by splitting them off from the Germans.

James Hacker: Well, why did the French go into it, then?

Sir Humphrey Appleby: Well, to protect their inefficient farmers from commercial competition.

James Hacker: That certainly doesn't apply to the Germans!

Sir Humphrey Appleby: No, no. They went in to cleanse themselves of genocide and apply for readmission to the human race.

Maybe Sir Antony’s satire wasn’t quite as gentle as we remember it.