http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/719826/South-China-Sea-New-Zealand-criticised-government
111
11
GETTY New Zealand Defence Minister Gerry Brownlee has been attacked by the Chinese Government

China claims almost the entire South China Sea, through which about $5 trillion worth of trade passes each year. Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan and Vietnam also have claims. An international tribunal in the Hague ruled in July that China had no historic title over the waters and had breached the Philippines' sovereign rights there.

That decision infuriated Beijing, which dismissed the court's authority. "[We] hope that countries who are not involved in the disputes respect the countries who are having the disputes to ... work among themselves," Fu Ying, chairwoman of China's foreign affairs committee for parliament, said at the Xiangshan Forum, which China styles as its answer to the annual Shangri-La Dialogue security forum in Singapore.

GETTY Madam Fu Ying said 'interferences can only complicate the differences'

"Outside involvement, I think the developments have shown, interferences, can only complicate the differences and sometimes even add to the tension," said Madam Fu, a former deputy foreign minister who was chairing the session.

We oppose actions that undermine peace and erode trust New Zealand Defence Minister Gerry Brownlee

Madam Fu's comments came in response to remarks by New Zealand Defence Minister Gerry Brownlee about his country's concerns over the South China Sea. "We oppose actions that undermine peace and erode trust and would like to see all parties actively take steps to reduce those tensions," Mr Brownlee said. "As a small maritime trading nation, international law and, in particular, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, is important for New Zealand. We support the arbitral process and believe that countries have the right to seek that international resolution," he said.

GETTY Chinese built structures on Mischief Reef in the disputed Spratly islands

This is not the first time China has clashed with New Zealand over the dispute. In February, New Zealand urged Chinese restraint after Beijing's apparent deployment of an advanced missile system on a South China Sea island, while Beijing said New Zealand's proposal was "unconstructive". Mr Brownlee on Tuesday honed in on the issue of China's building of artificial islands in the territory, including new airstrips, which has rattled nerves around the region. "A particular cause of ... heightened tension has been the reclamation and construction activity and deployment of military assets in disputed areas," he said.

China says much of the building and reclamation work it has been doing in the South China Sea is to benefit the international community, including improving civilian maritime navigation. After Madam Fu's response, Mr Brownlee said that it was reasonable for New Zealand to express its concerns, which represent smaller countries as well, as all parties are able to have a say. Since the ruling, China and members of the Association of Southeast Asia Nations (ASEAN) have been trying to reduce tension in the region.

GETTY Anti-China protests in the Philippines