http://dailypost.ng/2016/10/11/apc-committee-submits-report-kano-crisis/
111
11
The All Progressives Congress (APC) said no challenge would distract it from its progressive ideology and belief in fairness to all.

National Vice Chairman (North West) of the party, Alhaji Inuwa Abdul-Kadir, stated this on Tuesday at the party’s National Secretariat in Abuja while receiving report of the committee that investigated crisis in Kano chapter.

He commended the committee for the job and said that the report would be forwarded to the appropriate organ of the party for consideration and decision.

Abdul-Kadir explained that by the party’s constitution, he was not allowed to comment on the report.

He said “we are publicly receiving the report of the fact-finding committee in exhibition of the cardinal principles of this party in respect of transparency and in promoting the rule of law.

“Our party is a progressive party and believes in fairness to all and sundry.

“Our party’s constitution requires that when we receive petitions and complaints from either an organ at any level or from any member, in respect of leadership dispute, we are not required to discuss it.’’

Recall that the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, SGF, Engr. Babachir Lawal, yesterday accused APC National Working Committee of doing enough to resolve the crisis in the Delta state chapter and some others.

Submitting the report earlier, , Sen. Mohammed Magoro, Chairman of the four-member Fact-Finding Committee on the leadership tussle in the party in Kano, said that seven persons appeared before the committee during its sessions.

Magoro disclosed that the findings of the committee revealed that the party’s Constitution empowered the executive committee in a state to appoint persons into positions in the leadership in the state chapter.

“According to our findings, all the procedures required and by the party’s constitution were adopted; the Kano State Executive Committee followed due process.

“The minutes and attendance of the meeting form part of the report.

“The Kano State Executive Committee as per the APC constitution has the full powers to appoint the people to occupy the positions,” Magoro said.

He thanked the party’s national leadership for the opportunity given to the committee to serve.

The committee was setup to examine the propriety of the decision of the Kano state executive committee which removed the state Chairman and the Organising Secretary, Umar Doguwa and, Sanusi Kwankwaso, respectively.

It was in a letter dated Sept. 9, 2016, mandated to examine the subsequent appointment of Abdullahi Abbas as acting Chairman and Ahmed Muhammad, as acting Organising Secretary.

In attendance during the submission of the report were the Deputy National Chairman (North), Senator Lawal Shuaibu and the National Legal Adviser, Dr Muiz Banire. (NAN)