http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/brexit-cost-up-66billion-year-9020170
110
11
Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

Brexit could cost the government an astonishing £66 BILLION a year in lost tax revenue, according to a bombshell leaked report.

Leaving the single European market will see British GDP fall by between 5.4 per cent and 9.5 per cent, it is claimed.

That would see almost a tenth of the estimated £716 billion in taxes the government is projected to collect in tax this year disappear.

The eye-watering reality is laid out in a draft committee report leaked to the Times.

It comes as the government signalled that MPs could be given a vote on the final Brexit deal.

The Tory Brexit Secretary dropped an apparent hint as Theresa May came under mounting pressure to give MPs more say - including from a former Attorney General.

In a carefully-scripted statement, David Davis told MPs: “We will observe the constitutional and legal precedents that apply to any new treaty on a new relationship with the European Union.”

Yet he rubbished growing, cross-party calls for a vote before Article 50 is activated next March as "micro-management".

In a fiery debate flanked by Brexiteers Boris Johnson, Priti Patel and Liam Fox, he told the House of Commons: “We have a duty to respect and carry out the people’s instruction.

Labour Brexit chief Keir Starmer demanded more scrutiny for the Tories' Brexit deal

“We will reject any attempt to undo the referendum result, any attempt to hold up the process unduly, or any attempt to keep Britain the EU by the back door by those who didn’t like the answer on June 23.”

He was under fresh pressure after Tory Brexiteer Stephen Phillips said pushing a deal through without MPs' approval would amount to “tyranny”.

Labour Shadow Brexit Secretary Sir Keir Starmer called for a vote before Article 50 is activated.

David Davis claims voting on the British government's EU exit plan is 'micro-management'

"Some argue this is a device to frustrate the process. It is nothing of the sort," he said.

"It's accountability on some of the most important decisions of our lifetime."

He added: "We do accept and respect the result of the referendum.

"But neither those who voted to remain nor those who voted to leave gave the government a mandate to take an axe to our economy.

Ed Miliband condemned the former champion of Parliamentary power

"Throughout the process the national interest must come first.

"Yet by flirting with Hard Brexit the Prime Minister puts at risk Britain's access to the single market rather than doing the right thing for jobs, for business and for working people in this country.

"In fact I observe the words 'single market' do not appear at all in the statement today.

"So much for putting the national interest first!"

PA Prime Minister Theresa May smacked down calls for a vote in Parliament

Mr Davis replied: "I'm afraid he really has to understand the distinction between accountability and micro-management, which is what he's trying to do."

But he did repeat his hint at scrutiny later on in the process and said there would be "debates galore" in Parliament.

"At the end of the process we will follow each and every legal and constitutional convention and requirement applied to all European legislation and all European treaties," the top Tory said.

"So I cannot see how he thinks that is in some sense not accountable."

Tory Brexiteer Iain Duncan Smith branded Sir Keir - a QC, knight and former Director of Public Prosecutions - a "second-rate lawyer".

He said: "I urge him to resist the temptation of advice from a second-rate lawyer who doesn't even understand the Parliamentary process."

But former Labour leader Ed Miliband pointed out Mr Davis himself had called for a "pre-negotiation white paper" on the terms of Brexit .

"When is he going to publish that white paper?" he demanded.

"And as someone who for many years railed about the importance of the powers of backbenchers and Parliament against the executive, can he give us now with a straight face an answer to the question - where is the government's mandate for these negotiations? Either from this House or the country?"

Remain-backing rebel Tory Anna Soubry warned of the "danger" of abandoning the single market.

SNP MP Stephen Gethins added: "We may be no clearer on if this is a Soft Brexit or a Hard Brexit. We do know it's a dog's Brexit.

"The government's irresponsible failure to provide any details of their plans are having an impact beyond this place."

Britain voted by 52% to 48% to quit the EU and Prime Minister has said Article 50 will be unleashed before the end of March, setting the clock ticking on a two-year countdown to exit.

MPs were dealt another blow tonight when Tory Stephen Phillips' bid for an urgent debate on the terms of Brexit was rejected by Commons Speaker John Bercow.

The Speaker said: "There is a strong prospect of a debate on this matter as early as this Wednesday.

"There will doubtless be many other opportunities to debate this matter through various vehicles in the House."