http://classic.iol.co.za/news/crime-courts/terror-accused-twins-abandon-bail-bid-1.2078545
111
11
FACEBOOK Twin brothers Brandon-Lee and Tony-Lee Thulsie are facing three counts of terror related charges.

Johannesburg - The Thulsie twins - Brandon-Lee and Tony-Lee - accused of plotting terror attacks on Jewish and American interests in South Africa on Tuesday abandoned their bail applications in the Johannesburg Magistrate’s Court.

The twins have been charged with conspiracy and incitement to commit the crime of terrorism and conspiring and attempting to commit acts associated with terrorist activities.

Annelene van den Heer, lawyer for the accused, told the court that her clients who have been in jail since their arrest on July 9, have abandoned their bail application.

Prosecutor Chris MacAdam then asked the court for an eight-week postponement, saying the State was in the process of requesting evidence against the accused from foreign countries.

Magistrate Pieter du Plessis told prosecutor MacAdam that he could only afford him three weeks. The matter will now be heard on November 4.

Outside the court, people declared their support for the twins. They demanded their immediate release. Others were in tears and were seen being comforted.

Police arrested the 23-year-old twins on July 9, after they searched their home and found documents that they said incriminated them in terror plots and planning to join the terror group, the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isis).

Both accused deny the charges and contend police officers who arrested them at their Newclare home in Johannesburg acted unlawfully because they only had a search warrant. Although police concede they did not have an arrest warrant, they insist they acted lawfully.

In August, the Johannesburg Magistrate’s Court declared the arrest of the Thulsie twins was lawfully executed by the police.

However, Van den Heever told the court she would seek a high court review. That matter failed and as result the bail application was reinstated.

African News Agency

IOL News on Facebook

IOL on Twitter

Get our free IOL newsletters - subscribe here...