https://au.news.yahoo.com/thewest/wa/a/32855486/woman-killed-in-building-fall-took-two-minute-short-cut/
111
11
A German woman who plunged to her death at a city construction site was not wearing a safety harness at the time, colleagues say.

VIDEO Woman killed at Perth worksite ‘not wearing safety harness’. Source: Seven News Woman killed at Perth worksite ‘not wearing safety harness’

Marianka Heumann, who was on a working holiday in Australia, fell 13-storeys at the Finbar and Hanssen development on Adelaide Terrace on Monday afternoon and was rushed to Royal Perth Hospital, but could not be saved.

Hanssen managing director Gerry Hanssen said the 27-year-old had apparently been packing up for the day when she realised she missed putting silicon in one section and decided to go back to finish the work without putting her safety equipment back on.

He said that “two-minute shortcut” was a fatal mistake.

“It is terribly sad - she has been working at the site for three months and had done 15 floors without any problems,” he said.

Marianka Heumann. Picture: Facebook

“She wore a harness full-time but yesterday… she made the fatal mistake of going back without a harness.

“There are clear instructions for all workers to use safety equipment and the saddest thing is that two of her co-workers saw it happening and feel awfully guilty about it.

“I hate to think about how they’re feeling, as well as the foreman and other colleagues who gave her CPR and tried to save her.”

Ms Heumann moved to Australia in November last year for what she described on social media as “a work and travel adventure” and was initially based in Sydney.

It is unclear when she moved to WA but was employed at the building site through recruitment company Request Group about three months ago.

Request Group has spoken to the 27-year-old’s parents and Mr Hanssen said he had offered to pay for their flights to Australia if they wanted to come.

Work colleagues, friends and strangers gather at a memorial outside the site where Marianka Heumann fell to her death. Picture: Simon Santi/The West Australian.

Work started on the 226-apartment Concerto high-rise building on Adelaide Terrace late last year and is due to be finished sometime in 2017.

Concerto will be Perth’s tallest apartment building.

Built on the former ABC site at 189 Adelaide Terrace, the 38-storey Concerto will be Perth’s tallest apartment building.

CFMEU State secretary Mick Buchan said when union representatives arrived at the site, workers were "crying and upset".

Mr Buchan claimed work did not immediately stop after the incident.

"I've got to say we were absolutely blown away that they were still pouring concrete after 3.30pm here," he said.