http://www.wsj.com/articles/samsung-reverses-china-stance-with-expanded-galaxy-note-7-recall-1476172619
112
11
ENLARGE Passengers line up beside a safety warning about the Samsung Galaxy Note 7 smartphone at a check-in counter at the airport in Wuhan, in China's central Hubei province, October 2, 2016. Photo: Agence France-Presse/Getty Images

BEIJING—A Chinese regulator said Tuesday it has tallied 20 cases of overheating or explosion of Galaxy Note 7s in the country and said Samsung will recall around 191,000 Note 7s in China as it expanded its recall to China and all markets.

The move in China is a reversal for Samsung, which in recent weeks has drawn ire from Chinese consumers by saying reports of explosions in China were faked and that its phones weren't faulty in this market. Samsung even commissioned a third-party report to prove some of the explosions were faked, which it allowed journalists to view but not keep.

The statement from China’s General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine Tuesday came shortly after Samsung announced a world-wide halt to sales of the Galaxy Note 7 and advised customers to stop using the phones immediately. Samsung had previously recalled the devices in some markets but not in mainland China.

Related Video The recall of Samsung’s Galaxy Note 7 after some devices caught fire has put the spotlight on phone batteries and the suppliers. This is how batteries can malfunction. Photo/Video: Eva Tam

The slow recall in China is likely to further hit consumer support for the Samsung brand, which had already fallen behind local rivals Huawei Technologies Co., Oppo Electronics Corp., Vivo Electronics Corp. and Xiaomi Corp. in China smartphone sales.

The China recall wasn’t mentioned on Samsung’s China website midafternoon Tuesday. Previous statements casting suspicion on phone-explosion reports in the country were no longer on the site.

A Samsung China spokesman didn’t immediate reply to requests for comment.

The Chinese regulator said Samsung will either refund the Galaxy Note 7 in full, or replace it for a different model, refunding the difference in price and providing a coupon for an additional 300 yuan ($45).

—Yang Jie

Write to Eva Dou at eva.dou@wsj.com