http://thenationonlineng.net/efcc-arrests-releases-ogah-court-strikes-charge/
110
11
•Defendant: case spurious, politically-motivated

The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) yesterday arrested a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship aspirant in Abia State, Dr Uche Ogah, outside a Tinubu Magistrate’s Court in Lagos.

He was held after Magistrate Kikelomo Ayeye struck out a forgery charge against him.

The politician was later released.

Ogah and his company, Masters Energy Oil and Gas Limited, as well as others at large, were accused of forgery.

During yesterday’s hearing, prosecution counsel Henry Obiazi, an Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP), told the court that he was under instruction to withdraw the charge.

Obiazi said: “I have been directed by the Inspector-General of Police (IGP) to withdraw the charge.”

Ruling, the magistrate said: “The case is hereby struck out.”

As soon as Ogah stepped out of the courtroom to where his vehicle was parked and got in, EFCC operatives surrounded him, blocked the exit gate and insisted he must follow them to the commission’s office in Ikoyi. An EFCC operative rode with Ogah in his vehicle.

Ogah’s lawyer Monday Ubani said his client was released unconditionnally few hours after he made a statement to the EFCC.

The lawyer said the commission invited his client, following what he aclled false information by the petitioner.

Count two of the charge reads: “That you, Masters Energy Oil and Gas Limited, Uche Ogah and others at large, on the same date, time, place and in the aforementioned magisterial district, did forge the signature of Mrs. Bridget Adeosun and a document known as MoU between Mut-Hass Petroleum Limited and Masters Energy Oil and Gas Limited, with an intent that it may be in any way used or acted upon as genuine.”

But Ogah, through Ubani, said the transaction was commercial, adding that the criminal charge was baseless and politically-motivated.

Ubani said: “At the EFCC office, we were confronted with a petition written by same Mrs Adeosun who, coincidentally, is also the complainant in the forgery charge that was earlier struck out by the magistrate court.

“We presented the same submission we made before the police to the EFCC, which is that the subject matter in the forgery allegation borders on a pure business transaction which my client had with Mrs Adeosun.

“We showed the commission’s officials some documents about the business transaction and the agreements reached by parties in the business. The Efcc was shocked that the documents were never given to them when she received her payments.

“After reviewing our presentation, EFCC officials asked my client to go home and come back another day, to have an interview with the petitioner.”

According to Ubani, the allegation is baseless, fallacious and full of lies.

He said: “My client was immediately cleared to go home.

“The fact remains that Uche Ogah has been cleared of any allegation of forgery. The police have seen the fact; the court delivered its verdict and the EFCC has also taken the appropriate action by releasing him after he was wrongfully invited.

“We are not unaware of the political manoeuvering aimed at ensuring that my client’s hard-earned reputation is dented by every means possible. However, our confidence in the Judiciary and the ability of our law enforcement official remains unwavering knowing that they will do the right thing at all times.”

Ogah said Adeosun had an allocation to import petroleum but lacked the financial capacity to carry out the business.

He said she approached Masters Energy Limited with a request for the company to buy her allocation. The company told her that it had enough allocation.

Ogah recalled that following Mrs Adeosun’s persistence, his company agreed to the deal.

He said: “Her proposal to sell her allocation to Masters Energy Limited was concluded and a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was executed, including Account Opening Documents in the bank wherein signatories were appointed to the knowledge of all parties to the transaction.

“She was given the full sum of the purchase price through cheques and she signed personally, having received the full sum of the sale. She cashed her money (we have all the evidence).

“Masters Energy carried out the importation and incurred a loss in the transaction. But that was no longer the business of the seller as she is not liable for the profit or loss of the business.”

The lawyer said Masters Energy applied for dollar differentials to the Debt Management Office (DMO) of the Federation, which agreed to pay about N51 million.

Ogah said Mrs Adeosun developed interest in the N51 million price differentials and applied to UBA Plc where the account was domiciled to be an “A” signatory in order to withdraw the sum whenever it was paid into the bank.

But Masters Energy wrote to the DMO an instruction not to issue the cheque in the name of Mrs Adeosun’s company. The company also got an interlocutory order from the Federal High Court, Abuja.

Ogah said the transaction coincided with his seeking for elective office in Abia State.

“Aided by political enemies, Mrs Adeosun took a pure civil transaction to the police, alleging that all the documents she signed for the transaction were forged,” Ubani said.