http://www.express.co.uk/news/politics/715855/European-Union-EU-Brussels-Britain-UN-Security-Council-seat-Brexit
20
2
GETTY The EU is reportedly eyeing up Britain's seat on the UN Security Council

EU bigwigs are "desperate" to secure a spot at the United Nations' top table and may try to take advantage of the Leave vote to launch a diplomatic coup. The Brussels machine went into overdrive last week as sycophantic bureaucrats swamped the UN General Assembly and butted in on a wide range of issues, desperate to prove their influence and relevance. Leading Brexiteers have urged Theresa May to get on with activating Article 50, so that the UK leaves the bloc before they can make their move.

Eurocrats have made no secret of their desire to replace either Britain or France on the UN Security Council, which has just five permanent members. Last year, in a provocative move, the European Parliament voted through a resolution calling on London and Paris to relinquish their places to Brussels. And Jean-Claude Juncker's Commission has repeatedly refused to rule out a power grab. When asked recently whether they wanted Britain's seat on the influential body, officials simply replied that they back "comprehensive reform of the UN Security Council".

GETTY EU bigwigs descended on New York last week to schmooze UN officials

REUTERS Brussels is keen to project itself as a serious global player

Fears over their intentions were exacerbated by a fawning press release, issued by Brussels this week, which went to obvious pains to stress the EU's growing involvement in the global peace project. The sickly statement went to painstaking lengths to highlight how an army of eurocrats, flown over to New York at the taxpayers' expense, engaged in "high level" meetings with world leaders and top UN officials. However, embarrassingly for Brussels' most senior politicians the talks had to take place on the sidelines because the EU still has no official status at the UN, other than as an "observer state". Ukip's defence spokesman Mike Hookem, who has repeatedly grilled the EU Commission over its plans to infiltrate the UN, said eurocrats were "desperate" for their own Security Council seat as part of their superstate dream.

REUTERS Britain holds one of five permanent seats on the UN Security Council

GETTY Plans are also afoot to centralise the allocation of European seats on the Council

The EU views itself as a superpower and it wants to be a federal state Mike Hookem MEP

He said: "The EU views itself as a superpower and it wants to be a federal state. It's completely obsessed with its delusions of adequacy, which is why it sent so many nobodies to the UN General Council in New York when around it the bloc is crumbling. "It must have been virtually intolerable for people like High Representative Mogherini and President Juncker, who seem to think themselves important on the world stage and, bizarrely, competent, to have to have meetings 'at the side-lines'. "But they won't just end with trying to take a security council seat - which if Theresa May ever gets on with Brexit won't be the UK permanent seat." He added: "We learned yesterday in the defence committee the EU also has its sights on a single seat on NATO which it has no intention of working in harmony with."

In July Estonian MEP Urmas Paet submitted a question to the Commission calling for greater EU collaboration over the selection of member states for non-permanent seats on the Security Council. There are 15 seats on the Council of which five are permanent members - Britain, France, the US, Russia and China - and 10 temporary seats which rotate every two years. Currently EU member states submit their own bids to occupy one of the 10 temporary places, but now MEPs want to centralise that system so that European countries are not competing against each other. Mr Paet said: "The EU, with its Member States, is the biggest contributor to the UN and seeking increasingly to have its say in UN affairs. "The present grouping arrangement has plainly become obsolete, and having separate groups for Western and Eastern Europe is no longer the right approach." A spokeswoman for Mr Paet stressed that if such a system were created, it would still be run by member states and not Brussels bureaucrats.

What countries are in the EU? Wed, September 14, 2016 In the wake of Brexit, we look at the 28 member states that are in the European Union. Play slideshow Getty 1 of 29 Countries that are in the European Union