http://www.thestar.com.my/news/nation/2016/09/20/kl-wants-un-action-on-migrant-issue-lingering-problem-of-trying-to-resettle-refugees-putting-strain/
112
11
NEW YORK: Malaysia has ex­­pressed concerns at what it described as lingering problems in resettling migrants and refugees in third countries.

Deputy Prime Minister Datuk Seri Dr Ahmad Zahid Hamidi said that while Malaysia had never shirked its humanitarian assistance over the years, it was facing problems in resettling the existing refugee population in Malaysia in third countries which had taken years.

“Migration has become and continues to be one of the security challenges faced by Malaysia, either in the form of irregular, illegal and mixed migration flows.

“In the early 70s, Malaysia faced the exodus of Vietnamese boat people and they were resettled in third countries with the assistance of the UNHCR.

“Nonetheless, as of July 31 2016, Malaysia is still hosting approximately 151,596 Persons of Concern (POC) comprising asylum seekers and refugees from 54 countries, although the term ‘refugee’ is not defined under any of our domestic legislation.

“I would urge the UNHCR and other state parties to the 1951 Refugee Convention and its related Protocol to give serious attention and promptly act on it,” he said at the High Level Meeting on Addressing Large Movement of Refugees and Migrants on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) here yesterday.

Dr Ahmad Zahid said the lingering problem of trying to resettle refugees would adversely create economic, social, political and security problems for Malaysia.

He also cited the authenticity of UNCHR cards issued to refugees in Malaysia, saying Malaysia had taken measures to establish a joint task force with UNHCR to issue cards with additional security features.

Despite all these problems, he said Malaysia would not neglect its interna-tional obligations and commitments in addressing migration caused by war, natural calamities, political unrest and armed conflicts.

“We have received 79 Syrian migrants until May this year and we look forward to receive another 421 Syrian migrants by the year end.

“Malaysia hosted 340 migrants from Bosnia-Herzegovina from 1997 to 2003 through similar humanitarian commitment. This strongly reflects Malaysia’s continuous devotion on this evolving issue,” he added.

Meanwhile, Bernama quoted Dr Ahmad Zahid as saying there was nothing unusual about Prime Minister Datuk Seri Najib Tun Razak not attending the UNGA.

He said many other countries had also sent representatives in place of their heads of state and government.