http://kenya.news24.com/Africa/News/malawians-demand-to-know-the-whereabouts-of-president-mutharika-20161011-2
112
11
Five years after Muammar Gaddafi’s death, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, the former head of Nato still maintains that the air campaign against Muammar Gaddafi was a "model intervention".

Watch the terrifying moment a light plane crashes after takeoff from Malta International Airport, killing all five people on board.

Malawians demand to know the whereabouts of President Mutharika

Lilongwe - Malawians have continued to demand to know the whereabouts of President Peter Mutharika, with critics saying that a statement recently released by government did not answer "serious questions" about his absence.

Social media has been abuzz over the health of Mutharika after he reportedly remained absent "without leave" in Malawi, two weeks after attending the United Nations General Assembly in New York.

Rumours claimed that Mutharika was hospitalised in the United States.



But Information Minister Malison Ndau, in a statement, laid the rumours to rest, saying that Mutharika was "fit" and well, while condemning people of spreading "fabricated stories" on social media.

"These rumours are baseless, malicious and sickening to say the least. The president is enjoying very robust health and is continuing to carry on his functions and duties whilst in the USA."

"We would like to remind all Malawians that in response to the so many inquiries as to what the president is doing in the USA, the Presidential Press Secretary, Mr Mgeme Kalirani, has repeatedly stated that the president is continuing to carry out other duties which could not be concluded whilst he was at the United Nations General Assembly," Ndau was quoted as saying.

According to a report by Malawi24, social commentators, however, kicked back at government, saying that the statement failed to provide dates for Mutharika's return to the southern African country. They also demanded that the president's location should be revealed. "I used to think that all is well with Mutharika wherever he is hiding but the recent statement has made me think otherwise. Why is the government intimidating people who are wondering on the whereabouts of Mutharika?" queried a social commentator. #BringBackMutharika has been trending on Twitter, with Malawians becoming evermore frustrated over Mutharika's prolonged stay in the US.

- News24