http://thenationonlineng.net/president-buhari-needs-candid-words/
112
11
When campaigning for the votes of Nigerians, Muhammadu Buhari and his political party promised to give Nigeria a federal government that would lead Nigeria to very important, and much needed, change. Since they secured the votes they were begging for and became the managers of the affairs of our federation, however, they have behaved as if the only kind of change known to them is the elimination of corruption. Of course, we Nigerians welcome the fight against corruption, and we want corruption eliminated, but we refuse to accept the message that the elimination of corruption is the only kind of change that our country needs and wants.

In the past week, it has increasingly occurred to me that we Nigerians who are clamouring for change probably have some fault in this situation – a fault arising from the fact that we are not spelling out clearly what we mean by change. Of course, we talk copiously about restructuring our federation as a major part of the change we want, but it is obvious that many of our people do not really understand what we mean by restructuring. I saw this glaringly a few days ago when a bright young man, newly arrived from above with a string of university degrees, asked me, “Sir, you and many others have been talking a lot about restructuring; what is there to restructure? Isn’t an efficient government what we really need?” Yes, we need an efficient government, but it is very clear that we ca never get any serious efficiency until we organize and run this country properly as a federation. So, we need the changes that will come with the restructuring of our federation, and a whole lot of other accompanying changes.

Our country has been politically unstable and conflict-rattled since independence, and we want that to change. The management of our resources in all parts of our country, increasingly vested in the federal centre, has steadily lost all sense and rationale. We watch in dismay as our Federal Government struggles to take on more and more control of more and more features of our life as a country, and as it tries to do a whole lot of things that it is obviously incapable of doing effectively. We watch our Federal Government, overburdened and overwhelmed, plunge deeper and deeper into hideous incompetence, inefficiency and corruption – and as it therefore rakes together a disrespectful and shameful image for our country in the world. We watch the over-centralization and the federal incompetence push our people, in all parts of our country, into deeper and deeper poverty. We watch our Federal Government, determined to be the controller of education in our country, steadily degrade the quality of education in our country, promote the strange elimination of the teaching of our languages and our history from the curriculum of our schools, thereby preparing for the death of our languages and our cultures, as well as for generations of Nigerians without any knowledge of their own history. We watch our Federal Government turn our universities into glorified secondary schools teaching one uniform curriculum.

We Nigerians want all these things to change. In different parts of our country, we want to manage our resources and to defeat poverty and produce prosperity, first for our own people, and then for all of Nigeria. We want to teach our language, our cultures, and our history, to our children in our schools. We want our universities to be left free to learn and teach whatever they think their country needs in the world, and free to engage, like universities worldwide, in uncontrolled search for the expansion knowledge. We want our Federal Government to be divested of its clumsy and destructive attempts to micro-manage all aspects of our lives. We Nigerians are a considerably educated people, a people very much exposed in the world – and we know how other federations in the world are organized and run. We refuse to continue to see our country being viewed in the world as some sort of primitive monstrosity among countries. We want to have our peripheral governments (states and local governments) spring forth as dynamic agencies of development and prosperity, and cease being impotent attendants upon a sloppy Federal Government.

We want to see an end to the destructive situation whereby our people, in more and more parts of our country, are losing faith in our country. We want our Federal Government to develop the culture of endeavouring to find out why Nigerians in some parts of our country are seeking secession from our country, and we want our government to stop automatically throwing police and military violence against any of our citizen groups who may express dissent or seek secession.

In short, we insist that, since history has given us a country that consists of many different nationalities, cultures and homelands, we must consciously and respectfully handle our country as a country of many different nationalities, cultures and homelands. Disregarding these facts and trying to operate our country as a country that is one in nationality, culture and homeland is the height of folly – crass and destructive folly. It has hurt our country, and our 180 million people, incalculably.

We get to see absurdities endlessly in this country. But the Buhari refusal to recognize the changes that this country needs and wants today must qualify as one of the most sordid absurdities our country has yet seen. Our economy is perishing in his hand and he does not know what to do to save it, and yet he prefers to hold on to the major factors wrecking the economy and wrecking our country. He does not have the funds to implement even his own annual budget, and yet he is spending money to accumulate weaponry for fighting those Nigerians who are seeking to secede from Nigeria – and he is making grandiose announcements of military operation this and military operation that. Besides that, he prefers to threaten these citizen groups, and to command them to lie down and give up. He needs talents from all over our talent-rich country to tackle the multiplicity of difficulties and problems facing our country today, but he prefers to lean mostly on the narrow circle of his own kinsmen. Fears and anxieties about the attitudes of his own ethnic nationality towards the affairs of Nigeria are shaking Nigeria, and yet he assays nothing to address the situation. As a loyal son and leader of the Fulani people, he is showing that he is determined to learn nothing and forget nothing, no matter what happens to Nigeria.

At home and abroad, the advent of the Buhari presidency was greeted with great sighs of relief, and with profound expectations. When he paid his first official visit to America as Nigeria’s new President of Change, those of us Nigerians in the Diaspora who gathered to listen to him in the Nigerian Embassy in Washington DC literally danced for joy in the streets of Washington DC. The political leaders and business captains of America were not less ecstatic. But when he returned to America last week to address the United Nations, it was a sombre America and a nearly jeering world that met him. Here at home in Nigeria, the high expectations have fled away. All in all, our country faces today worse days that its worst ever.

We need to speak in these candid words to Buhari. We do it in the hope that our country may yet be saved. We do it in the hope that Buhari may yet turn around and be the President of Change that he promised us. Nigeria is worth the fight and the hope.