http://www.ibtimes.co.uk/lyon-president-jean-michel-aulas-says-club-will-not-sell-alexandre-lacazette-arsenal-1576130
120
12
Lyon president Jean-Michel Aulas is convinced Alexandre Lacazette will stay at the French club. The striker has been linked with a big-money move to Arsenal this summer, but Aulas is confident of retaining his prize asset.

Last month, Lyon revealed they had rejected Arsenal's bid of €35m (£30.3m, $39.1m) for Lacazette. But after the 25-year-old netted a hat-trick in Lyon's 3-0 win over Nancy on the opening weekend of the new Ligue 1 season, Aulas addressed rumours linking him with a move away from the club.

"It's good that he should stay at least one more year with us," Aulas said in an interview published by the Journal du Dimanche. "It's in his interest. He's the leader of a good team who play in a very attacking style."

Arsenal's 4-3 loss to Liverpool on the opening day of their Premier League campaign has added more pressure on Gunners boss Arsene Wenger. The North London club are eager to sign a new centre-forward, but it appears unlikely Lacazette will be allowed to join Arsenal this summer.

However, Aulas said the situation could change should a club of Barcelona or Manchester United's stature express interest in the player. "The day that Real, Barca or Manchester United come to see us, it will be different," Aulas explained.

Wenger recently admitted he is keen to sign a new centre-forward, but confessed he was facing stiff competition. "We are still on the market at the front and the back. Unfortunately we are not alone," he said, according to Sky Sports.

"I buy players that I feel can strengthen our team. Today, you have to be very strong inside the club when you are responsible, not to just buy to buy.

"There is always a wave of opinions, and people are better informed today than all the players. They always tell you to buy but when you ask who to buy, they become much shorter, because if you look at the market in Europe there is a lot of money available, but not many players that really strengthen the teams.

"And if you look at who is spending the most in Europe, they are not the teams that won the leagues. The global investment of all the clubs around us didn't stop Leicester winning the league. So we have to focus on our quality, and try to strengthen our team."