https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2016/live-updates/general-election/real-time-fact-checking-and-analysis-of-the-first-presidential-debate/on-immigration-will-trump-clinton-double-down-or-moderate-their-stances/
120
12
In a campaign that has been defined by style over substance, one area in which Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton have clashed sharply on policy has been immigration reform.

Trump wants to build a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border to keep out undocumented immigrants and pledged to get tougher on enforcement for those already here. Clinton has defended President Obama’s efforts to shield millions from deportation through executive action and suggested she would go even further as president.

[Trump’s latest plan would target 5 million undocumented immigrants for deportation]

They are appealing to different audiences. Trump’s hardline stance helped him win over white, conservative voters who propelled him through the GOP primary campaign. Clinton’s liberal position aims to electrify the fast-growing Latino and Asian-American voting blocs that Obama won overwhelmingly in 2012.

The question for both candidates, if the topic arises at the Hofstra University debate, will be whether they forcefully reaffirm their proposals to drive up enthusiasm with their base or moderate their positions to appeal to undecided voters in front of the largest television audience of the campaign.

As often as Trump and Clinton have talked about immigration, many unanswered questions remain about their policies.

Trump has said the Mexican government would pay for the wall, but Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto said he told Trump that was a not happening during their meeting in Mexico City last month.

Trump also has suggested he would seek to deport all 11 million undocumented immigrants. He pledged to triple the number of federal enforcement agents and create a “deportation force” to round up criminals and those who overstayed their visas. That could be as many as half of those living in the United States illegally.

[How Trump got from Point A to Point A on immigration]

Most experts have said such plans are costly and unrealistic. At other times, Trump has suggested he would be more tolerant and “work with” undocumented immigrants who had lived in the country many years without committing other crimes.

“Hopefully, they’ve prepped him on this,” said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates for lower immigration levels.

“In his immigration speech [in Phoenix], he did not specifically say whether he would deport everybody. He addressed [it] obliquely. When he gets the question directly … I suspect he’ll say something like, ‘All illegals are subject to deportation at all times, but in the real world we have to make priorities.’”

Clinton has pledged to introduce a comprehensive immigration reform bill for Congress within her first 100 days. But she has not spelled out specifics on key components, such as a path to citizenship for the undocumented. And she has not articulated a political strategy to win broad bipartisan support after comprehensive legislation failed under both the George W. Bush and Obama administrations.

“Folks have been down this road before,” said Clarissa Martinez-de-Castro, deputy vice president at the National Council of La Raza. “People want to hear, what is the strategy? We know there is still going to be a part of Congress that behaves like kamikaze pilots. For them, keeping the status quo is to their advantage.”

Clinton also has been unclear on how far she would expand on Obama’s executive actions. The president’s 2012 program, known as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA), has granted work permits to 740,000 people who came to the country illegally as children. But his bid to expand that to millions of parents of U.S. citizens has been stalled in federal court since 2014.

Clinton has said she supports both programs and would potentially expand it further to include parents of DACA recipients.

Her answer was less clear during a Democratic primary debate in March when she pledged not to deport any illegal immigrants except violent criminals and terrorists. Some analysts said Clinton’s words, when parsed, leave wiggle room over the tens of thousands of families and children who have arrived from Central America over the past several years. The Obama administration has said those who do not win asylum protections in an immigration court will be sent home.

Polls show that as many as 70 percent of Latinos favor Clinton over Trump – about the same percentage that voted for Obama over Republican Mitt Romney in 2012. But the surveys also show an enthusiasm gap, leaving fears among Democrats that Latino voters will not show up at the polls.

Clinton also needs to demonstrate “not just how she would be different from Trump, but also how she would be different from what Obama has done,” said Marielena Hincapié, executive director of the National Immigration Law Center.

Hincapié noted that Clinton had been to the right of Obama on immigration during the 2008 campaign for the Democratic nomination, perhaps leaving some Latino voters skeptical of her current positions.

“There’s still room there,” Hincapié said of Clinton’s connection with Latinos. “She hasn’t done enough.”