http://www.khmertimeskh.com/news/30681/lawyer--suing-manet-in-us-unlikely/
120
12
Cambodia National Rescue Party (CNRP) member Nhay Chamroeun has said he will file a complaint under a new law in a US court against Hun Manet, the prime minister’s eldest son, over a vicious beating Mr. Chamroeun and another member of his party were subjected to outside the National Assembly on October 26 last year.



Mr. Chamroeun was beaten up by three members of the prime minister’s bodyguard unit, who have since been tried and sentenced in a Cambodian court for their actions. Mr. Manet is one of the many deputy commanders of the bodyguard unit and the target of Mr. Chamroeun’s complaint, although the men found guilty of the beating said they acted independently.



Mr. Chamroeun’s American lawyer said the complaint would be filed in the US federal court under a new US law designed to hold foreign governments which support terrorism accountable to the victims of terrorist acts.



The new law, called the Justice Against Sponsors of Terrorism Act, amends the US Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act, to allow US citizens to sue foreign governments for losses resulting from terrorism carried out in the United States, for example from the September 11, 2001, attacks in New York and Washington, which allegedly were supported by Saudi Arabia.



Mr. Chamroeun’s lawyer, Morton Sklar, told local media that the new law would apply to “any case filed by Mr. Chamroeun” as well as the case filed in a US court in April by Meach Sovannara.



Mr. Sovannara was convicted of insurrection for his role in a 2014 demonstration in Freedom Park in Phnom Penh against the government that escalated into a brawl between opposition party supporters and government-sponsored security.



Attorney Christopher Beres, who is representing Mr. Manet in the case now in US federal court in California, said: “Mr. Sklar’s statement about the Justice Against Sponsors of Terrorism Act means either he didn’t read the law or he intentionally misrepresented the law to the public and, perhaps more significantly, to his client.



“The text of the law is available on the internet for all to read. It provides: ‘A foreign state shall not be immune from the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States in any case in which money damages are sought against a foreign state for physical injury to person or property or death occurring in the United States …’



“The law is clear on where the injury must occur. The injury must occur in the United States, but, any injury to Chamroeun allegedly occurred outside the National Assembly in Phnom Penh, Cambodia. Therefore, the law is inapplicable to the incident involving Chamroeun.



“The law is likewise inapplicable to the incident involving Sovannara because any injury to Sovannara allegedly occurred in Freedom Park in Phnom Pehn, Cambodia.



“Of course, the law also does not apply because neither the incident outside the gates of the National Assembly nor the melee in Freedom Park can be considered terrorism.”



When asked about a recent statement from Sam Zarifi, the regional director of the International Commission of Jurists, who said Mr. Manet’s biggest legal challenge may be a criminal case involving private investigator Paul Hayes, who attempted to serve a subpoena to Mr. Manet during Mr. Manet’s visit to Long Beach, California, earlier this year, Mr. Beres also cast doubt on.



“The International Commission of Jurists is a non-governmental organization with a name suggesting some imprimatur of authority,” he said.

“Its membership includes a good number of political activists who routinely criticize the Cambodian government and ally themselves with persons opposed to the Cambodian government. They speak with no authority.



“Perhaps Mr. Zarifi would like to explain his statement to the public. At a minimum he should check the facts before opining. General Manet has not been arrested or charged with any crime; no criminal case against General Manet exists. To suggest otherwise is outrageous and possibly beyond the bounds of free speech.”