http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/703337/Chechen-migrants-unmanned-German-border-Poland
20
2
Getty Angela Merkel has closed the borders in the south but not in the east where this bridge links Poland

Germany shut down border crossings into the country from the western Balkan migrant route into south Germany after 1.1 million refugees entered last year after the German premier introduced an open-door policy. In reaction to the closures the migrant route has now moved east through Poland, which shares the largest border with Germany - leaving the nation open to terrorists entering the state. Official statistics reveal the number of illegal crossings has catapulted out of control between the twinned towns of Germany's Frankfurt an der Oder, east of Berlin in Brandenburg state, and Poland's Slubice, which are linked by an unmanned bridge over the Oder river.

There could be hundreds or thousands of illegal border crossings into Germany from Poland, with potential terrorists among them Ernst Walter

Migrants are now using the two towns' motto of "No borders' to their advantage as much as citizens have done since 2004 when Poland became a member of the EU. Many enter by car, travelling along the motorway linking Warsaw and Berlin, called the "Autobahn of Freedom" after the 25th anniversary of the fall of the Iron Curtain.

Getty The new migrant route from Chechnya goes through Belarus and Poland to Germany

Ernst Walter, head of Germany's federal police union, told Politico: "The security situation at the German-Polish border is serious. "Day by day, there could be hundreds or thousands of illegal border crossings into Germany from Poland, with potential terrorists among them - and we simply have no idea about what's happening."

Many of them are coming to claim asylum from Chechnya, a mainly Muslim republic in Russia on the Georgia border split by bloody wars against Vladimir Putin's nation, German newspaper Die Welt revealed. Authorities in Frankfurt an der Oder are concerned they do not have enough resources to take out background checks on migrants as there are not enough translators and information from Chechnya and Russia is not reliable.

Getty The border between Poland and Germany is part of the Schengen free movement area

Getty The Chechen-Russia conflict dates back to 1785

Over the past year the route into eastern Germany has become a standard one as people travel by train from Belarus to enter the Schengen free movement zone via the Polish city of Terespol where they can file an asylum application then onto Germany. A German federal police official, said: "We have no idea if they stay in Germany or if they travel on to other countries. "We simply have no idea."

Migrant Crisis: Mass exodus from the migrant camp continues Tue, October 25, 2016 Hundreds of migrants are continuing to arrive in Europe as they flee the scenes of chaos and brutality of the Islamic State in the Middle East. Play slideshow 1 of 224

There are no official statistics on numbers of migrants who have crossed into Germany through the Polish border due to the Schengen agreement, however the number of Russians seeking asylum in Germany has grown by 600 per cent since the end of last year. In January 307 Russians - which Chechens come under the umbrella of - sought asylum in Germany, with the number growing to 1,835 by June, the German Federal Office for Migration revealed. However, there is a large backlog so asylum applications are taking several months to be process, suggesting Russian asylum seeker numbers increased at the same time Syrian and Middle Eastern refugee numbers did.