http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3831738/The-sickest-victims-conmen-peddled-bogus-pills-help-Royal-Mail.html
125
12
Royal Mail is delivering unlicensed medicines despite repeated warnings of their potential dangers.

The illegal pills and remedies that put the elderly at risk are being sold through catalogues dropped through hundreds of thousands of letterboxes.

An investigation by this newspaper can reveal that Royal Mail had a direct contract with at least one firm behind some of the bogus medicines.

The pills are supposed to help with joint problems, memory loss, sight problems or digestive disorders. But they can be dangerous because buyers are not told of harmful side effects or possible interference with other medication.

Our investigations unit revealed yesterday that Royal Mail was making millions of pounds from conmen who defraud the elderly.

Reaping the profits: Christian Limpach said the aim was to: 'To rip off the people.' Particularly 'females over 60', who are seen as the most vulnerable, he said

'I'm passionate about my ability to whore my talent and sell this s*** to people who don't need it'. Canadian sweepstake scammer, Andrew John Thomas, said the victims 'get sucked in'

That prompted Theresa May, MPs and campaigners to call for more action to tackle the letter scams.

Theresa May last night warned Royal Mail it must do more to stop fraudsters targeting the elderly following a Daily Mail investigation.

She demanded urgent action to prevent conmen getting postal frauds into the homes of the most vulnerable.

The Prime Minister’s spokesman said: ‘These are concerning revelations. Targeting some of the most vulnerable people in the country should not and will not be tolerated. There will be meetings with Royal Mail, other postal operators and the National Trading Standards scams team to ensure that this issue is tackled as a matter of urgency.’

Theresa May, MPs and campaigners are calling for more action to tackle letter scams

Our investigations unit revealed yesterday that millions of fraudulent letters are being delivered into the UK in bulk through Royal Mail’s contract with Whistl – allowing the fraudsters to get the Royal Mail branding on their envelopes, which helps convince victims the letters are real.

Despite repeated warnings, Royal Mail has refused to crack down on the problem.

It can now be revealed that it has been delivering unregulated medicinal products in the UK for more than a decade.

The Office for Fair Trading warned in 2007 about a catalogue company behind the Vital Beauty, Vital Nature and Phyderma brands.

A court in Belgium ruled their publications illegal in 2011 and Royal Mail finally cancelled the contract earlier this year. But it is still delivering the catalogues under contract to Whistl.

In other developments last night:

Health regulators launched an investigation;

Families said loved ones had spent thousands on the worthless pills;

Esther Rantzen accused Royal Mail of profiting from suffering;

Royal Mail insisted it was not a law enforcement agency and had a legal duty to deliver letters.

It is illegal to market and sell medicinal products in Britain without a licence from the Medicines and Healthcare Regulatory Authority. But despite this, catalogue firms have been operating through the Royal Mail for years – targeting unregulated medicines at vulnerable people.

Families said relatives had spent their life savings on useless remedies from numerous companies – thinking they could cure mobility problems and conditions such as cancer.

The horrified daughter of one victim told how she found her mother had got her scam health products mixed up with her real blood pressure tablets – putting her at serious risk.

Royal Mail is delivering unlicensed medicines despite repeated warnings of their potential dangers

One of the catalogues illegally advertising unlicensed health products is Vital Beauty, a company run by French multi-millionaire, Stephane Alech.

Its products include pills that promise to preserve eyesight and are claimed to be ‘clinically tested and backed by studies and data’. There are no warnings of any possible side effects.

Another product containing valerian root extract – to ‘combat insomnia and nervousness’ – claims to have ‘no side effects such as drowsiness, addiction and dependence’.

In fact, drowsiness is a well-known side effect. Other illegal medicinal products advertised in the catalogue include pills claimed to stop memory loss, pills which are claimed to reduce joint pain and tablets claimed to ‘restore a flat stomach with no effort at all’.

The MHRA said the Daily Mail had brought ‘new evidence to light suggesting unlicensed medicinal products may be being sold and supplied within the UK’.

A spokesman said its enforcement teams would now investigate whether any legal action could be taken against those supplying the pills. Last night Royal Mail said: ‘We take the Daily Mail’s allegations very seriously.

‘We understand the upset and disquiet that scam mail can cause. We will work with the postal services minister, all our industry partners and other industries to tackle scamming in an effective and coordinated way.’

The spokesman said Royal Mail had ‘terminated contracts with the Phyderma and Vital Nature brands in April 2016, as soon as we were asked to do so by the national trading standards scams team’.

Last night Royal Mail said: ‘We take the Daily Mail’s allegations very seriously'

The spokesman insisted they were ‘committed to terminating contracts with companies that distribute fraudulent mail as soon as we receive evidence from relevant law enforcement agencies’.

But he added: ‘We are not a law enforcement agency – we are a delivery company.’

A spokesman for Phyderma denied any wrongdoing and said the French courts had considered that their activities conform to European legislation.

‘We have lodged a complaint with the European Court concerning declarations and actions taken against us by British authorities and we will not be making any statement until we have received the decision of the court,’ he added.

A Whistl spokesman said the mailings were provided through an intermediary, adding: ‘We are in the process of stopping this mail being processed through our network. We have written formally to the intermediary to advise that we will not take mail from these brands or their parent company.’

Thousands of frail victims have lost vast sums to scammers, who trick them into buying worthless – and potentially dangerous – ‘medicines’ through letters delivered by the Royal Mail.

Here LUCY OSBORNE reveals some of the most heartbreaking cases.

Dementia gran lost her home at 91

Grandmother Anna Greig had to sell her house and move into a nursing home after she lost £70,000 through scams.

The 91-year-old dementia sufferer began ordering thousands of pills after receiving letters that claimed she had won a prize cheque – and could speed up its delivery by ordering products from the scam catalogues.

Soon Mrs Greig was sending off cheques almost every day to claim her ‘prize’, which she wanted to pass on to her children and grandchildren.

Grandmother Anna Greig (pictured with her son James), had to sell her house and move into a nursing home after she lost £70,000 through scams

She would hide boxes full of the pills – including ‘shark’s cartilage’ and a formula for ‘sharp ears’ – from her family, hoping she would soon surprise her children with her winnings. But in 2008 her son James became suspicious when she could not pay her builder for the annexe being built on her Bradford home.

To his horror, he discovered she had spent nearly all her life savings on scams – sending £5,000 to one lottery scammer in Canada alone. ‘I was devastated,’ he said. ‘The £25,000 for the building work was gone, and she had been borrowing large sums from her bank and building society as well as on her credit cards.

‘I discovered mum had also taken out various loans to send money to these scammers. Her overall debt was now around £70,000.’

Mr Greig moved in with his mother, confiscated her cheque books and intercepted scam mail.

But he said ‘the rows and disagreements continued. She was still convinced that just one more payment would land her a fortune’.

Mr Greig, 63, explained that his mother, who is a devout Christian, ‘is a very honest woman’.

‘She believes when people make promises they should stand,’ he said.

‘This belief caused her to trust the scammers over and over again.’

Mrs Greig is now in a nursing home with early stage dementia.

After spending nearly £70,000 through scams she had to sell her home. Mr Greig added: ‘My mum is still very hurt that there will be no inheritance for her children and grandchildren. She still doesn’t fully understand the enormity of what happened to her wealth.’

Veteran desperate to ease leg pain

James Horkin, 91, was conned into spending £800 a month

James Horkin, 91, was conned into spending £800 a month on medicines he hoped would ease his terrible leg and back pain.

Mr Horkin – who served as an officer in the Royal Tank Regiment during the war – also suffered from the blood cancer non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, which caused him difficulty when swallowing.

His desperation to alleviate his pain made him an easy target for scammers, who hounded him for more than 15 years. At the height of the scam, he was losing £800 a month, and his family fear he gave more than £90,000 to the scammers overall.

The father-of-two, who died last month, was first lured into buying the products with scam letters that promised he would win a TV. They told him ordering products in the catalogue would speed up the prize.

Soon Mr Horkin was placing orders worth hundreds of pounds – and taking the medicines against the advice of his GP.

Among the bogus remedies he was conned into buying were a ‘pain-relieving’ gel he was told to rub into his legs – which caused him to have a bad fall – and ginseng extract contained in glass ampules, which cut his hands as he broke them open. He spent £600 alone on tablets that were supposed to cure his pain while swallowing – with his family throwing out 60 boxes after he died.

‘We told him it was a scam but the letters were so convincing that he was completely drawn in,’ said his daughter Liz Horkin, a retired nurse. ‘They were bombarding him with letters demanding he buy more and more ... They are just criminals.’

Miss Horkin said her ‘independent’ father was ‘no fool’, but added: ‘Sadly he did become more gullible due to frailty ... and he was quite trusting, as many old people are.

‘The people behind the scams are criminals and he was just utterly manipulated.’

After his death, Mr Horkin’s daughter realised two of the scam catalogue companies had even taken money from his account while he was in hospital.

‘He certainly wasn’t ordering anything as he was in hospital,’ she said. ‘About £220 was taken at that time. We have reported it.’

She said there should be a way to divert scam mail away from vulnerable older people to their next of kin. ‘When you think of children, they are removed from their home if there is even the slightest suspicion of abuse,’ she said. ‘But the elderly are just as vulnerable to abuse like this – and there is nothing to protect them.’

Cancer victim spent £30K on bogus cures

Donald Davies' daughter-in-law Julie had daily battles with her father-in-law

Over three years, Donald Davies sent between £20,000 and £30,000 to scammers who tout bogus health supplements.

His family battled to stop him but nothing would convince the ‘brainwashed’ pensioner that he had fallen victim to a con.

The former ambulance driver sometimes received more than 100 scam letters a day. Before his death aged 79 from prostate cancer two years ago, Mr Davies bought thousands of useless products – including lotions, tablets and tinned food – which filled his entire garage.

Like many victims, he was lured into buying them by claims he had won a cash prize that would materialise if he ordered the remedies. Believing the letters were genuine, he started to send money, and was soon losing around £1,000 every month.

Then, after he was diagnosed with prostate cancer, desperate Mr Davies started sending money for bogus ‘prostate tablets’ recommended by one company.

His family fear these may have interfered with medication he was prescribed by his doctor.

Many ‘health’ products were from Vital Nature, a company run by multi-millionaire Stephane Alech. Among them was a so-called ‘anti-itch’ lotion for £16.89, anti-ageing tablets for £17.88 and Lutein X-Strength for £17.89, which can be dangerous in large doses.

Shocking: Hundreds of boxes of bogus products fill the garage of Donald Davies' home

Mr Davies’ daughter-in-law Julie said she had daily battles with her father-in-law, who lived with his wife in Bridgend, Wales, and even tried to intercept the cheques he sent – but he refused to listen.

‘This is a man who wouldn’t stop for a cup of tea at a service station because it’s too expensive,’ she said.

‘But at the same time, he’s spending a fortune ordering these useless products. He was brainwashed.

‘It was so sad to watch because we were seeing our dad getting hurt, but we couldn’t do anything about it.

‘He was so taken in by it all that he would trust them over his own family.’

Husband hooked on ‘memory pills’

Former soldier Ray Kaye and his wife Paula are ‘living in poverty’ due to the scam letters.

Mr Kaye, who served in the Royal Signals for 22 years, receives at least a dozen letters a day telling him he has won a huge cash prize and must order goods to claim it. He suffers from memory problems and attends a dementia group, and when he saw that one of the products claimed to improve memory he instantly began ordering it.

However, the ‘memory pills’ in question have no ingredients or instructions on their packaging, and it is not known what they contain.

Former soldier Ray Kaye and his wife Paula are ‘living in poverty’ due to the scam letters

Mr Kaye, 76, has lost his life savings, and he and Mrs Kaye are ‘living in poverty’, with barely enough to cover their rent and bills.

Mrs Kaye, 78, has pleaded with her ‘hooked’ husband to stop sending money to the scammers to no avail. She said: ‘He hides it from me but I know he’s still doing it.’

The couple’s friends have also tried to stop him – but the scammers tell him to ignore them. Former neighbour Cheryl Hammond, 45, said: ‘People don’t realise how powerful the messages are – they are experts in getting into people’s heads and the letters are so personal.

‘People like Ray are being mugged in their own home on a daily basis, yet there’s nothing we can do about it.’

Mr Kaye said: ‘I’m awful. I once had a very good bank balance but I’m depleting it because of these letters.

‘I know they’re terrible. But if I stop now, I definitely won’t get any money back.’