http://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-kidney-scam-doctor-and-coordinator-may-face-further-action/story-zeYJdQOYr8E0M55HGYZMcP.html
127
12
The state representative for the Hospital Authorisation Committee of L H Hiranandani Hospital, along with transplant coordinator Nilesh Kamble, may soon face action based on the discrepancies observed and mentioned by the Directorate of Health Services (DHS) in their last report on the kidney scam unearthed at the hospital. The report, which includes statements of other parties connected to the scam, was part of an 800-page charge-sheet filed by the Powai police and accessed by Hindustan Times.

On September 20, the Powai police sent a letter to the DHS, requesting them to submit the observations and recommendations made after recording statements of three members of the Hospital Authorisation Committee (HAC) that granted approval for the transplant of Brijkumar Jaiswal (recipient) and Shobha Thakur (donor). The three member doctors are pathologist Dr Suvin Shetty, general surgeon Dr Veena Shevlikar and Dr BP Kadam, assistant director of DHS. The letter also mentioned Nilesh Kamble, one of the main accused, and requested DHS to submit his statements.

“The three doctors have equal authority as medical director Dr Anurag Kamble, arrested along with four other doctors of the hospital. Hence to take further action, we request you to submit the report on the findings of investigations,” mentioned the letter. DHS, following the request, submitted their report on September 27.

The statement of Kadam, who was unavailable for investigation owing to family commitments, was recorded on August 16 at St George Hospital. He had apparently came as replacement on the day of the transplant for his colleague Dr Babulgaonkar and has been working for the state government for the past 32 years.

The major discrepancies noted after his statement were that even after accepting that he had seen Xerox copies of identification documents submitted by the donor and recipient, he couldn’t remember if he had seen the originals. “However, he [also] states that he has verified the documents and there is discrepancy between the two statements,” said the committee finding.

The report also mentioned that while Kadam said he has seen the photograph of the children (of the donor and recipient, who claimed to be married to each other) the video footage of the interview did not show him checking such pictures. Based on the video footage, the committee observed that Kadam failed to notice the discrepancy the donor Thakur’s statement and that of her alleged brother when probed on where their family roots were. “No questions were asked to Thakur to see whether she knows the names of the family members even when she couldn’t tell her address properly,” DHS said in the letter.

“Dr Kadam didn’t take any special precaution in the case of female donor, neither did he verify whether the health condition of the donor based on documents submitted pre-operative check-ups,” the report said.

However, because the DHS has no authority to suggest action against Kadam, the report merely accused him of not being able to scrutinise the documents and failing to adhere to Rule 18 and 22 of the THAO rule. “Him (Dr Kadam) being a government employee, only appropriate authority of the state has the authority to take action against him,” said the report.

The same day, the committee also questioned Kamble and he had attended a total of 48 HAC meetings till date. While Kamble said he checked all the Xerox copies of the documents, he also said he failed to spot any forgery and added that there is no protocol of checking original documents at the hospital.

Dragging Dr Mukesh Shete, the treating nephrologist in the surgery, Kamble said the medical papers and donor preparation were done by the former at one of the hospitals he is attached to . “He has no idea when Dr Shete and Dr Mukesh shah, the treating urologist, have evaluated the donor and recipient,” said DHS officials.

Kamble, in his statement, also accepted that Bijendra Bhisen, the scam’s alleged mastermind , met him under the alias of Sandeep, and presented himself as social worker working for poor patients. Kamble said Sandeep had referred three cases to him till date. Even Kamble’s statements show that he has not submitted or seen any family photograph of the donor and recipient or their children. “There is a contrast in the statement of Kamble and Kadam,” observed DHS.

Requesting stringent action against Kamble, the committee report said they feel he has a doubtful dealing or relationship with Bhisen, “Being the assistant manager, he has not prepared proper documents for the authorisation committee and section 21 of Human Organ Transplant Act 1994 should apply for him,” said the committee.