http://www.express.co.uk/news/uk/708059/school-uniform-scandal-head-matthew-tate-defends-this-morning
124
12
Matthew Tate, who started his role as Headteacher at Hartsdown Academy Margate this term, spoke to Holly and Phil about the controversy on This Morning. He said: “This school needs to get to a place where every child and parent can be proud. “We were told a small minority of children and parents have been controlling this school, and many were unhappy with this. “The vast majority have done the right thing and come to school in the right uniform.” Holly said: “A letter went home in July clearly stating the policy and reminding parents that come September children would be turned away if they didn’t adhere - did you ever believe you would be in this situation?”

ITV•SWNS Headteacher Matthew Tate, right, appeared on This Morning to defend his strict uniform policy

Bloody ridiculous. His house, his rules. It's all about discipline - in very short supply it appears PlatoSays, Twitter

Matthew said: “We are really disappointed we are in this position but people don’t always make the right choices. We’ve had an overwhelming number of people support us. In fact, two year 11 pupils told me they were bullied in year 7 for wearing the right uniform." And this topic appears to be dividing the nation - and captivating headlines across the press. Chris Ship, ITV news' Deputy Political Editor took to Twitter to say: "A headteacher who wants his pupils to wear the correct school uniform. And he has to go on @BBCr4today to explain himself." Another Twitter user - going by the name PlatoSays - added: "Bloody ridiculous. His house, his rules. It's all about discipline - in very short supply it appears."

School uniform scandal: Head defends decision on This Morning Wed, September 7, 2016 The headteacher embroiled in a school uniform row at the start of term appeared on This Morning to defend his decision to crack down on dress at his school. Play slideshow ITV 1 of 8 Headmaster of Hartsdown Academy Margate Matthew Tate appeared on This Morning alongside mother Latasha Whiting

The mother of one of the pupils sent home, Latasha Whiting, also spoke to Holly and Phil on This Morning. Her daughter Chelsea was sent away on the first day of school due to her shoes having a tassle and her skirt being too short. Latasha said: “I asked for a link to a skirt that we could buy that wasn’t too short and was told there wasn’t one, but they would be bringing in a new uniform next year. “She is 5ft 10” and there is only one length of skirt so on a tall girl it will appear shorter. She went in to school today and she hasn’t changed her skirt.” Other parents emailed in to the show to describe what had happened to them. Matthew responded, and said: “We will allow black trainers, not fashion trainers, if there is a medical reason and the pupil provides a doctors note. “Most parents have said they are pleased by what we are doing. For too long school has been known as being scruffy and we wanted to change that.”

@chrisshipitv @BBCr4today Bloody ridiculous. His house, his rules. It's all about discipline - in very short supply it appears. — PlatoSays (@PlatoSays) September 7, 2016

A headteacher who wants his pupils to wear the correct school uniform. And he has to go on @BBCr4today to explain himself? — Chris Ship (@chrisshipitv) September 7, 2016

@chrisshipitv @BBCr4today Poor headmaster, trying to maintain standards. Not helped by some misguided parents. — Fiona Unwin (@fionaunwin) September 7, 2016

Should schools be doing everything they can to ensure rules on school uniform are followed? #ThisMorning — This Morning (@thismorning) September 7, 2016

ITV Matthew Tate was joined by mother Latasha, who was not a fan of the new rules

ITV Latasha's daughter Chelsea was sent home for having a skirt that was too short