http://dev.thedailystar.net/backpage/stalker-stabs-schoolgirl-dinajpur-1282495
120
12
Yet another schoolgirl was stabbed allegedly by a stalker inside her home in Bochaganj upazila yesterday for rejecting his marriage proposal.

The girl is Zakia Sultana, 14, a class-VIII student of Bochaganj Ideal Academy. She is a daughter of Border Guard Bangladesh member Zomshed Ali of Labour-Linepara in Bochaganj municipality area.

Zomshed has recently been transferred to Satkhira from Thakurgaon.

Victim's family said Ibrahim Ali, 21, of Bochaganj Sugar Mill para, entered their rented house around 9:30am and stabbed Zakia indiscriminately after closing the door of her room.

She was rushed to Bochaganj Upazila Health Complex. Doctors referred her to Dinajpur Medical College Hospital as her condition was critical.

Doctors said they found eight deep stab marks on her body.

Locals said the family came to Bochaganj three years ago from Thakurgaon's Pirganj for their girl's better study.

Victim's family alleged that Ibrahim, younger brother of Secretary of Bochaganj upazila unit BNP Monjurul Islam, started stalking Zakia on her way to school a year ago. The stalker also threatened her to kill as she refused his marriage proposal in December last year.

Later, Zakia's father filed a general diary with Bochaganj Police Station, seeking help of police in this regard.

But police did not cooperate with the family, alleged the family.

Finally, Zakia stopped going to her school as Bochaganj police did not take any action against the stalker although his house is just 700 metres from the police station, alleged a teacher of Bochaganj Ideal School, seeking anonymity.

"Zakia is a brilliant student, but she stopped attending her classes as police did not take any action against the stalker after she got a death threat," the teacher said, adding that the school is just 600 metres from her home.

Habibul Haq Prodhan, officer-in-charge of Bochaganj Police Station, said police arrested Ibrahim around 12:00 noon from Sotkumor in Bochaganj municipality.

Asked what police did for the girl after filing of the GD, the police official declined to comment to this end.

In another incident, a stalker stabbed Suraiya Akter Risha, a class-VIII student at Willes Little Flower School in the capital, on the Kakrail footbridge near her school last month.

Risha lost the battle for her life four days after she was stabbed.