http://www.4-traders.com/FORTESCUE-METALS-GROUP-LI-6496550/news/Fortescue-Metals-Matt-Canavan-cool-on-WA-Nationals-mining-tax-grab-23079703/
120
12
Federal Resources Minister Matt Canavan has distanced himself from a radical $3 billion mining tax policy announced by his Nationals colleagues in Western Australia and has voiced concerns that the plan would raise revenue from only two companies.

The Nationals West Australian leader Brendon Grylls unveiled a policy this week for a $5 per tonne tax on iron ore giants Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton that excludes West Australian-based miners Fortescue Metals Group and Hancock Prospecting.

The big miners are gearing up to fight the plan, which Mr Grylls wants the Liberal-Nationals state government to adopt as a way of returning the budget to surplus.

Senator Canavan , who will make his first trip to Perth as Resources Minister next week, said the proposal was a matter for the state government.

However, it would be of concern if any proposal was to potentially discriminate against or target particular companies, impact longstanding royalty arrangements and, in turn, reduce certainty for the sector, he told The Australian.

Acting Nationals leader Fiona Nash , who along with leader Barnaby Joyce tried to draft Mr Grylls into federal politics this year, declined to criticise the plan. The policies of the WA Nationals are a matter for them, she said.

A spokesman for Mr Grylls said the leader was not in a position to provide more detail about the plan. We are currently trying to focus on delivering a positive outcome with our new policy announcements, he said.

On Tuesday, Mr Grylls insisted the Liberal-Nationals alliance would hang together until the state election next March, despite his belief that Mr Barnetts government, which is trailing Labor in Newspolls, could not win the next election with its current economic plan.

He said those who doubted that he could deliver the tax should recall his success in implementing his Royalties for Regions policy after the 2008 election, when neither Mr Barnetts Liberals nor Labor had the numbers to form government in their own right. Mr Grylls eventually sided with Mr Barnett on the condition that the policy be implemented.

Labor leader Mark McGowan yesterday ruled out forming an alliance with the Nationals after the election.

State opposition Treasury spokesman Ben Wyatt called on Mr Barnett to reveal the nature of his discussions with Mr Grylls on Monday night, before the policy was announced. He said the government had capitulated to the erratic ego of Mr Grylls .

We now have Mr Grylls back in the heart of government with an idea that is not only economically dangerous, its fiscally reckless, Mr Wyatt said.

A spokeswoman for Fortescue Metals Group chairman Andrew Forrest said he had spoken to Mr Grylls and expressed his opposition to a new tax being imposed on his rivals Rio and BHP.