http://www.themalaymailonline.com/malaysia/article/suaram-many-cma-cases-dont-involve-hate-speech
124
12
Suaram: Many CMA cases don’t involve hate speech

Sidek Kamiso was arrested September 19, 2016 over alleged social media posts on the death of PAS spiritual adviser Datuk Dr Haron Din (pic). ― Picture by Yusof Mat Isa KUALA LUMPUR, Sept 20 — Many of the Communications and Multimedia Act (CMA) 1998 cases do not meet the criteria for hate speech that would justify prosecution, Suaram said today.

The human rights group also criticised the police for arresting former journalist Sidek Kamiso in Petaling Jaya in the wee hours of the morning yesterday without a warrant, saying that the nature of the offences under the CMA that deal with purportedly offensive speech do not justify the need for tough measures.

“With these conditions in mind, Section 233 of the CMA can only be described as a legislation that stifles freedom of expression similar to the Sedition Act 1948,” Suaram said in a statement.

“In addition, there is also no practical need for those detained to be brought to Johor Baru for investigations. The recent string of arrests involved individuals who were arrested in Shah Alam, Petaling Jaya and Mengelembu, Ipoh.

“Any detention or investigation could have been conducted in the respective state and there was no practical need for them to be brought to Johor Baru to facilitate investigation regarding a statement made online,” it added.

Sidek and two other suspects from Shah Alam and Ipoh were arrested yesterday, reportedly under Section 233 of the CMA, over alleged social media posts on the death of PAS spiritual adviser Datuk Dr Haron Din, and brought to Johor Baru.

Local daily The Star reported that the magistrate’s court rejected yesterday the police’s application to remand Sidek and the suspect from Shah Alam, both of whom were arrested over their tweets.

However, the suspect from Ipoh, a businessman, was reportedly remanded today for three days over alleged Facebook comments on Haron’s death.

Section 233 of the CMA criminalises online comments that are “obscene, indecent, false, menacing or offensive in character with intent to annoy, abuse, threaten or harass another person.” The offence is punishable with a fine not exceeding RM50,000, or imprisonment not exceeding a year, or both.

There are no hate speech laws in Malaysia.