http://ewn.co.za/2016/09/20/Keeping-Hlaudi-Motsoeneng-at-SABC-insults-freedoms-people-fought-for
120
12
His lawyer says he reported for work today as an ordinary employee and not as its COO.

JOHANNESBURG - As South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) chair Professor Mbulaheni Maguvhe says he can't take calls about Hlaudi Motsoeneng this afternoon, the Right to Know Campaign says by keeping Motsoeneng at the broadcaster, the board is showing it's corrupt and insulting the freedoms people fought for.

Yesterday, it emerged the Supreme Court of Appeal had refused to hear an appeal from the board to an earlier decision that Motsoeneng's appointment as Chief Operating Officer (COO) was irrational.

Motsoeneng's lawyer says he's reported for work today as an ordinary employee and not as its COO.

The Right to Know Campaign's Micah Reddy says he believes the SABC board and Communications Minister Faith Muthambi are not going to do the right thing here.

"It's clear neither the minister nor the board are acting in the public's interest, the board is simply rubber-stamping Hlaudi Motsoeneng's decision making."

While Media Monitoring Africa's William Bird is not expecting any action either.

"It's not like we can rely on the SABC board, Parliament or the even minister to follow due process and good corporate governance practices. So I think the tragedy at this point is that we shouldn't be surprised by anything."

LISTEN: So where to from here for Hlaudi Motsoeneng?

Meanwhile, the Right to Know Campaign says the board of the SABC is corrupt.

Reddy says by allowing Motsoeneng to stay on at the SABC, Muthambi and the corporation's board are showing their true colours.

"We haven't seen one example lately of the board taking a stand against him, disagreeing with any of his reckless decisions."

While Bird says this latest court decision has implications for the decisions made by Motsoeneng.

"The question then becomes: what does that mean for all the decisions he has taken since that day and does that mean they are invalid. I think this is a sufficiently strong argument that he is and that would bring into question to a whole range of things."

The SABC itself has not said what Motsoeneng did at work today.