http://www.business-standard.com/article/pti-stories/hc-defers-post-mortem-of-techie-murder-accused-till-sept-30-116092400040_1.html
120
12
HC defers post-mortem of techie murder accused till Sept 30

The Madras High today deferred till September 30 the post-mortem of a woman techie accused, who allegedly committed suicide in prison, after his father sought time to move the Supreme for nominating a doctor of his choice in the autopsy panel.



Justice N Kirubakaran, who had yesterday directed AIIMS to depute a doctor for the post-mortem of P Ramkumar on or before September 27 while rejecting petitioner's plea for including a doctor of his choice, ordered preservation of the body at the Government Royapettah Hospital till September 30.



Even though the was not convinced with the submissions of the petitioner's counsel, the judge said he was granting the concession as a mark of sympathy.



If the petitioner was unable to secure any order from the Supreme by September 30, Ramkumar's post-mortem should be done on October 1, he ruled.



Ramkumar, arrested on the charge of murdering 24-year old software engineer Swathi on June 24 at a railway station here, allegedly ended his life by biting a live wire in the Puzhal central prison on September 18.



His father R Paramasivam moved the seeking presence of a doctor of his choice during the post-mortem.



A single judge rejected his prayer and directed setting up of a four-member team of government doctors to conduct the post-mortem. But the petitioner filed an appeal before a division bench.



As the bench was split on its view over his plea, Justice Kirubakaran was appointed as the third judge to decide the issue and he ruled against allowing a doctor of petitioner's choice, but asked AIIMS to depute a doctor, paving the way for conduct of the post-mortem.



However, petitioner's counsel R Sankarasubbu this morning made a mention before Chief Justice S K Kaul and wanted the to pass interim orders staying conduct of post-mortem till the victim's father moved the Supreme for remedy.



He said since three judges had taken three different views the matter should be referred to a larger bench.



Turning down the request, Justice Kaul said though the understood the petitioner's emotions, it could not do anything at this stage. If he still felt aggrieved, he can move the apex court.



If he wants he can approach the portfolio judge, he said.



The counsel then made a mention before Justice Kirubakaran, who heard the matter and passed the present order late this evening.



During the hearing, Justice Kirubakaran rued that parties were politicising the Ramkumar autopsy issue.

(This story has not been edited by Business Standard staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)

Press Trust of India