http://www.whio.com/news/national/brock-turner-expected-released-friday-after-serving-months-jail/ztJgur1kRGBM6WCHlXwHMN/
120
12
Updated: Wednesday, November 02, 2016 @ 8:14 AM

Published: Wednesday, November 02, 2016 @ 7:57 AM

By: WFTV

The wife of the Pulse nightclub shooter, Omar Mateen said she had no idea her husband would kill dozens of people.

Noor Salman spoke with The New York Times in one of her first interviews since the June 12 attack.

>>WFTV speaks to reporter who interviewed Omar Mateen’s wife

Salman told the newspaper that Mateen got mad easily and beat her. But she denied any prior involvement or knowledge of the attack that killed 49 people and injured 53 others.

Salman, who used to live in South Florida, said she’s had to move three times in hopes of avoiding the spotlight.

>> Read more trending stories

"I don't condone what he has done. I am very sorry for what has happened. He has hurt a lot of people,” Salman told the New York Times.

Salman called Mateen a "gentle spirit" when they met, but said his behavior changed about six months into their marriage. The report showed Mateen beat his wife, threatened to kill her and never said he was sorry.

“I pledge allegiance to (unidentified name) Of the Islamic State,” Mateen said in 911 calls during the Pulse shooting.

The calls were released Monday after a court order.

His wife told The New York Times that she was aware her husband watched Jihadist videos, but didn't think much of it because Mateen had been cleared by the FBI. Salman said she wasn't suspicious of his ammunition purchases since he worked as a security guard.

Ten days before the attack, the report showed Mateen had been accepted into a police-training program.

Just before 49 people were killed, Salman said Mateen took the family to a McDonald's and gave her money for a trip.

Later, she received a text from Mateen asking if she had seen what happened, but she said she hadn't.

In the interview, Salman’s lawyers declined to let her talk about her discussions with the FBI, saying she told them everything she knew.

Salman told The New York Times that she agreed to talk with them to show people that she's human.

Prosecutors have not said if they'll pursue any charges against her.