http://nation.com.pk/national/07-Sep-2016/failing-to-draw-quorum-na-skips-tribute-to-war-martyrs
120
12
ISLAMABAD - The PML-N government, despite having two-thirds majority, yesterday failed to table a resolution in the National Assembly to pay tribute to martyrs of 1965 war, owing to lack of quorum in the house.

The house was about to adopt two resolutions when a PPP’s senior lawmaker Abudl Sattar Bachani interrupted and drew attention of the chair toward lack of quorum.

The government side has almost prepared a resolution for Defence Day but it could not be presented as house was adjourned due to lack of quorum.

The second resolution was related to condemning the execution of Jamaat-i-Islami leader Mir Quasem Ali in Bangladesh. He was hanged after being convicted for alleged offences committed during 1971 war.

Interesting, Jamaat-i-Islami lawmaker Sher Akbar had read out resolution to condemn the act of Bangladesh government but it could not be passed in the house. As, PPP’s MNA Abdul Sattar Bachani raised objections that these resolutions cannot be passed in absence of majority of legislators.

“There is lack of quorum in the house. How we (MNAs) can pass resolutions in such situation,” said MNA Bachani and pointed out quorum. There were hardly 40 MNAs from both sides of the aisle present in the house when the quorum was indicated.

Around a month ago (August 8), the incumbent government had also failed to pass a resolution to condemn the Quetta blast owing to lack of quorum.

However, the lawmakers paid glowing tributes to the martyrs of 1965 war and war against terrorism.

Opposition leader Syed Khursheed Shah said Pakistan came into being after rendering many sacrifices. “Today is September 6, our brave soldiers had bravely fought on this day and defeated the enemies,” said opposition leader.

Shah also came down hard on the government for imposing taxes on masses without providing any relief. “Prices of petroleum, unemployment, lawlessness are on its peak,” he said.

PPP’s Shazia Marri, on her turn, strongly criticised the government for remembering martyrs of 1965 war by at least passing a resolution. She said the sacrifices rendered by the Pakistan armed forces to safeguard the country must be acknowledged.

The government benches lawmaker, responding to concerns raised by opposition MNA, remarked that the government side was preparing a resolution for paying tribute to martyrs.

PML-N Capt(Retd) Muhammad Safdar paid a tribute to the martyrs of 1965. “We (MNA) salute to the martyrs of 1965 War,” he said, saying that wars were imposed on Pakistan in 1948 and 1965. He further said that India had attacked Pakistan to divert the attention of world from the Kashmir issue at that time. About PAT Chairman Tahirul Qadri, he raised doubts over the financial resources of PAT chairman. “The Canadian Maulvi (Tahir ul Qadri) used to come on a bicycle to Ittefaq Foundry Masjid should now be asked from where he had earned billion of rupees,” he remarked.

Another lawmaker Siraj Muhammad Khan said that Pakistan armed forces had bravely responded to the Indian attack on September 6, 1965.

MQM’s Sheikh Salahuddin said that sacrifices of the martyrs of 1965 would always be remembered. “The contribution of Pakistan Air Force and Pakistan Navy were appreciable,” he added.

Jamaat Islami (JI) MNA Sahibzada Tariq Ullah also paid tribute to the martyrs of 1965 for sacrificing their lives.

He also strongly condemned hanging of JI member Mir Quasem Ali in Bangladesh, saying the agreement signed between Pakistan and Bangladesh must be honoured.

Former speaker and PPP MNA Fehmida Mirza, on her turn, said the sacrifices of Pakistan Army for the motherland would be remembered.

About the allegations of PTI against Speaker NA Iyaz Sadiq for being partisan in sending reference to ECP, she said it was the responsibility of the speaker to remain neutral.

Earlier, PTI’s Shafqat Mehmood responding to the concerns raised by Khawaja Asif said that PTI lawmakers had submitted salaries of sit-in period in Prime Minister relief funds. “The allegations of Khwaja Asif have no reality,” he added. He further said the speaker office should be neutral.

Earlier, MNA Dr Fouzia Hameed introduced “The Federal Public Service Commission (Amendment) Bill, 2016”. The House adopted a resolution recommending the government to take steps to set up separate counter for women in NADRA and passport offices of Charsadda.