http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/724757/Calais-migrants-Jungle-destruction-more-camps-France
120
12
Thousands will stay in northern France hoping to cross the Channel and new camps will spring up in weeks, charity workers warned as violence broke out on the eve of the demolition of the squalid shanty town. French interior minister Bernard Cazeneuve announced that bulldozers will move in today. But there were skirmishes as angry migrants taunted a line of riot police by pelting them with rocks. Police repelled the mob by firing smoke grenades. Tension was on a knife-edge in the besieged port last night, with a hardcore of UK-bound migrants remaining to defy the demolition.

GETTY Thousands of Calais migrants will stay in northern France hoping to cross the Channel to the UK

The chaos prompted urgent calls for the UK to beef up its border security. Ukip MEP and defence spokesman Mike Hookem said: “The demolition of the camp has been tried before, only for the migrants to move up the road. Let’s not forget Sangatte was demolished without solving the problem. “People trafficking is a multi-million pound business in misery and the criminals in Calais will not let it go easily. I am sure as the French finally clear the Jungle the problem will simply move to other ports which don’t have the same security arrangements. “Rather than simply shifting these people to centres, the French need to sort out the genuine refugees from the economic migrants and deport those who are in France illegally.”

EPA

EPA Some 2,318 migrants voluntarily left Calais yesterday

Some 2,318 migrants voluntarily left Calais yesterday to be taken to other parts of the country. Officials estimated that at least 5,000 remain.

The French need to sort out the genuine refugees from the economic migrants Ukip MEP and defence spokesman Mike Hookem

Such is their determination to reach Britain at any cost, experts fear neighbouring ports along the French coast like Dunkirk and Dieppe could be the next to be flooded with migrants and infiltrated by people-smuggling gangs. Charlie Elphicke, the Tory MP for Dover, said: “People will be more desperate than ever to see if they can break into Britain so it’s important border security is stepped up. “We need to be prepared for every eventuality. It is in the interests of Dover and Calais that Britain and France work together to end the migrant magnet.”

From dawn yesterday thousands of young men could be seen leaving, carrying their possessions in suitcases. They joined a huge queue for a processing centre in a hangar where details were registered before they were bussed to asylum centres. Sudanese migrant Kili, 19, said: “A group of us will aim to stay together. We still all want to get to England.” A British worker with the charity L’Auberge des Migrants told the Daily Express: “People are not just going to suddenly leave Calais, which is why satellite camps will spring up.

EPA

GETTY Thousands of young men could be seen leaving, carrying their possessions in suitcases

“They have been living in the Jungle for a year, so they are not going to all disappear. I think there will be a lot in Dunkirk. It is what we were expecting, even though the French thought they would all magically disappear when the Jungle was demolished.” French authorities claim the camp will be emptied and destroyed by the end of the week. Migrants who fail to cooperate will face arrest. Armed police were in the Jungle in a show of strength yesterday, with a highly charged final clearance expected. Daily Express columnist and former shadow home secretary Ann Widdecombe said: “All they are doing is moving the problem, not ending it.

Migrant 'children' from 'Jungle Camp' arrive in the UK Wed, October 19, 2016 Migrant 'children' from the 'Jungle Camp' in Calais arrive in the UK to be reunited with relatives. Play slideshow 1 of 26

“The only thing they can do is make every single person apply for asylum in France and send back the people who refuse.” Tory MP David Davies added: “Demolition of the Jungle may work for a while but sooner or later people will start to filter back to Calais.” Calais mayor Natacha Bouchart said she was “relieved but also worried” about the week-long operation. She claimed members of a British protest group, No Borders, might try to inflame the situation.

PA Home Secretary Amber Rudd said Britain won't accept any more migrant children who arrive in Calais