https://www.yahoo.com/news/kerber-battles-past-pliskova-win-224314906.html
120
12
German Angelique Kerber overcame Karolina Pliskova in an entertaining US Open final on Saturday.

Angelique Kerber continued her memorable year by winning a second grand-slam title, beating Karolina Pliskova in three sets in the US Open final.

The German, who ends Serena Williams' 186-week reign as world number one, claimed a 6-3 4-6 6-4 win over Czech 10th seed Pliskova at Flushing Meadows on Saturday.

In her third major final of the year, Rio Olympics silver medallist Kerber added the title in New York to her success at the Australian Open in January.

She had been in control early before Pliskova fought back, forcing Kerber to come from a break down in the deciding set.

Kerber's consistency and excellent returning eventually proved too much for Pliskova, who denied her the top ranking with a win in their last meeting in the Cincinnati final last month.

The big-hitting Pliskova, beyond the third round at a major for the first time, was solid, but the 24-year-old lost the final eight points of the match.

A poor first game, which included missing a volley into an open court in what was a nervy start, led to Pliskova being broken.

Kerber managed to contain her opponent's power, saving two break points to take a 3-1 lead in the first set.

She broke again to take the first set in the ninth game, scurrying around the court before sending a forehand winner down the line.

Kerber needed to get out of trouble on serve early in the second, but there was no denying Pliskova in the seventh game as a lob winner gave her a break advantage.

Pliskova had no trouble closing out the set and when she took a 3-1 lead in the third, she looked on track for victory.

But Kerber rallied before Pliskova finished poorly, losing eight straight points to finish the encounter.

STATISTICAL BREAKDOWN

Kerber [2] bt Pliskova [10] 6-3 4-6 6-4

WINNERS/UNFORCED ERRORS

Kerber – 21/17

Pliskova – 40/47

ACES

Kerber – 1

Pliskova – 5

BREAK POINTS WON

Kerber – 4/5

Pliskova – 2/7

FIRST SERVE PERCENTAGE

Kerber – 63

Pliskova – 60

PERCENTAGE OF POINTS WON ON FIRST/SECOND SERVE

Kerber – 69/53

Pliskova – 75/39

TOTAL POINTS

Kerber – 97

Pliskova – 90