http://en.farsnews.com/newstext.aspx?nn=13950607000636
120
12
World

One More Non-Syrian Commander Leaves Fatah Al-Sham Terrorist Group

TEHRAN (FNA)- Another notorious Jordanian commander of Fatah al-Sham (the newly-formed al-Qaeda-affiliated terrorist group previously known as the al-Nusra Front) cut his official membership with the Takfiri group after Fatah al-Sham broke ties with al-Qaeda a couple of weeks ago.

Balal Khreisat aka Abu Khadijah al-Ordoni left Fatah al-Sham mainly due to the possible negligence of al-Qaeda's principles by the Takfiri group.

In the meantime, Abu Jandal, the Jordanian commander of Fatah al-Sham in Dara'a succumbed to the wounds he sustained in a car crash on a road connecting Seida to al-Qariyeh two weeks ago.

Abu Jandal's death was announced by Fatah al-Sham after the Jordanian commander of the Takfiri group cut his relations with Fatah al-Sham.

Reports said last week that one of the most notorious commanders of Fatah al-Sham Front left the group after Fatah al-Sham broke ties with al-Qaeda, a move that is now seen only as part of a growing trend of defections by veteran commanders and their ring members.

Ayad al-Touibasi aka Abu Habib Ordoni, the Jordanian commander of Fatah al-Sham in Sahel and ex-commander of the group in Dara'a, announced that he has left Fatah al-Sham.

"After Fatah al-Sham brock tie with al-Qaeda, the group started quickly to carrying out some changes in the newly-formed groups' structure, which caused me to cut my organization relations and membership with Fatah al-Sham," Ordoni wrote in his tweeter account.

"Every body must know that al-Qaeda is the only organization which believes in uniting the entire Muslims in war against enemies," he further added.

Ordoni was a fighter of al-Qaeda in Afghanistan and Iraq and then established al-Nusra Front with his leader Abu Mohammad al-Joulani in Syria.

Late in July, al-Nusra Front terrorist group in Syria voted to cut ties with al-Qaeda despite opposition from some of its key members.

The Syrian al-Qaeda affiliate's consultation Shura council reportedly voted to break ties with the terrorist group after a split in its ranks emerged following the announcement of coordinated Russia-US air strikes against the militant group.