http://www.news24.com/SouthAfrica/News/spurned-obsessive-cop-bashed-exs-baby-several-times-court-hears-20161010
20
2
Cape Town – A policeman broke through his ex-girlfriend’s burglar bars and held the baby by its legs and bashed the baby's head on the floor after hearing she did not want him back, the Blue Downs Magistrate’s Court heard during his bail application on Monday.

Prosecutor Nathan Adriaanse read chilling details from the policeman's former girlfriend’s statement to show that their relationship was "a figment of the imagination".

He said the policeman had refused to accept that she had been referring to him as her ex since the beginning of last year.

"I am going to argue that you have an obsession with the complainant. You keep going back and stalking, threatening and harassing her."

Adriaanse wanted to demonstrate that the cop might threaten or hurt witnesses if granted bail.

The court has not yet heard whether he is the baby's father. The suspended officer cannot be named in terms of a court order.

In the statement, his ex said he had come to her last month to profess his love, and asking to be taken back.

She told him she did not want anything to do with him.

'I am going to kill it now'

Later that day, she heard a bang on the door of her house and him shouting: "Open the door. I will show you."

She said he broke the iron gate and kicked down the door.

Her sister ran to the bedroom with her 9-month old baby.

When she asked what he wanted, he apparently slapped her twice in the face.

"He shouted: 'This thing [meaning my daughter] is the reason why you don’t want me. I am going to kill it now.'"

Adriaanse said the door would have been opened for the policeman if he was truly welcome.

He faces charges of attempted murder, common assault and contravening a protection order.

In a statement read out on Monday, a witness said he heard shouting and ran outside.

He said he saw the policeman bashing the baby’s head.

"The witness says that you held the baby with both hands by its legs. You would lift the baby up and bash the baby’s head against the floor several times," said Adriaanse to the policeman.

The witness apparently ran up to him and took the baby away.

"You chased after him and eventually other members of the community apprehended you."

According to the arresting officer, he was present when the policeman allegedly threatened to assault the witness if he was released.

The constable stroked his chin, chewed gum, and chose not to answer.

Protection order

He had previously claimed in court that they were a couple until his arrest.

He blamed his visually-impaired ex for contacting him for assistance while she had a protection order against him.

Countering this, the prosecutor shared more of her statement.

"I am totally blind and he has been abusing me emotionally and physically for a long time. That’s why I got the protection order against him."

The now 10-month-old baby was still in ICU after being admitted last month. She had multiple skull fractures, bruises to her head, and swelling on the brain.

The prosecutor said they did not know if she would make it.

Zamane Gcilashe, for the policeman, said he was going to bring an application to show, via phone records, that the complainant had contacted his client, and not the other way around.

The matter was postponed until October 20 for the State and defence to discuss this.