http://finance.yahoo.com/news/tons-trump-supporters-china-even-142818958.html
25
2
Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump has a big following in China, particularly among the primarily upper-class population that has been closely watching the US election.

Some Trump supporters on Chinese social-media sites have defended his lewd remarks made in 2005 as "normal" conversation between men in private while praising his apology as "perfect" and accusing the American news media of smearing the Republican nominee.

Though a recent Pew study revealed that Trump's Democratic opponent, Hillary Clinton, is better liked among Chinese citizens, Trump generates far more interest and support on Chinese social media — on one popular site, the topic centered on Trump has four times as many followers as the one centered on Clinton.

There are numerous reasons Trump gets so much attention on Chinese social media, and it's not all from people who genuinely like the candidate.

A Trump presidency could benefit China

View photos China's President Xi Jinping reviews honour guards during a welcoming ceremony for Peru's President Pedro Pablo Kuczynski (not in picture) at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, China, September 13, 2016. REUTERS/Jason Lee More

Some of the Chinese support for and interest in Trump come from people who "desire to see the US democratic system make a fool of themselves," Yao Lin, a visiting fellow in the public-policy department at the City University of Hong Kong, told Business Insider.

These supporters, Lin said, don't actually like Trump but simply want "to see the US collapse once Trump seizes the White House." They therefore tend to share pro-Trump articles online but do not actually support the candidate.

Others, influenced by China's authoritarian atmosphere, are the real Trump fanatics. They support Trump because of his charisma and policy stances, comparing him to leaders like Vladimir Putin, Xi Jinping, or Mao Zedong. Many of these supporters are wooed by Trump's isolationist mindset, which they believe would give China the opportunity to rise to the top of the world order or develop a more even relationship with the US, Lin said.

Haoyu Ge, 25, a former missile designer at China North Industries Group Corporation, told Business Insider he admired Trump's outspokenness and thought Trump would encourage the US to stop pressuring other countries to adopt US values. He also praised Trump's foreign-policy stance, which he thought would be a boon for China.

Ge said Trump's criticism of NATO as "obsolete" would make way for China's military development; his denouncement of unconditional US support for the Philippines, Japan, and South Korea would let China better handle territorial disputes in South China Sea and East China Sea; his plan to persuade China to rein in North Korea would help strengthen China's control over the Korean Peninsula.

Ge Hu, 42, a creative producer and film director, told Business Insider that many Chinese Trump supporters thought Trump's tough words on China — accusing the country of manipulating its currency and having "stolen" jobs from Americans — were warranted.

If Trump were to disparage the Chinese people, Ge said, he would "not hesitate to challenge his statement to protect our honor," but he added, however, that "I acknowledge the part where he referred to Chinese people taking away Americans' jobs — because that's the way it is."

Lin, the public-policy fellow, said Chinese supporters like Ge Hu and Haoyu Ge believed that Trump's anti-China sentiments were only a figure of speech while Clinton and US President Barack Obama had actually acted against China.

"Their 'evidence' comes from Trump's advocacy for America's diplomatic and military contraction, even isolationism, while Clinton and Obama's 'Pivot to Asia' is the real deal to counter China," Lin said.

Trump's rhetoric toward Muslims echoes sentiment in China

View photos A Muslim man. More