http://www.express.co.uk/news/uk/720047/UK-fishing-industry-Brexit
120
12
ALAMY More than half the fish caught off Britain's coast are landed by foreign trawlers

Boats from other EU countries seized 58 per cent of the fish and shellfish in UK waters between 2012 and 2014. This equates to around 650,000 tonnes of fish and shellfish worth £408 million per year, most of which was caught around Scotland. In contrast, UK fishing boats landed only 90,000 tonnes of fish and shellfish, worth about £103 million, from elsewhere in EU waters each year.

Industry leaders said the study by the University of the Highlands and Islands' NAFC Marine Centre proved Brexit offered a "sea of opportunity". Scotland's fishermen are angry at Nicola Sturgeon's bid to somehow stay tied to Brussels and threats of another independence referendum. They argue leaving the EU will sound the death knell of the hated Common Fisheries Policy and allow the UK to control its a 200-mile exclusive economic zone (EEZ).

SWNS Scotland's fishermen are angry at Nicola Sturgeon's bid to somehow stay tied to Brussels

Nicola Sturgeon in pictures Thu, October 27, 2016 Scotland's First Minister Nicola Sturgeon in pictures. Play slideshow PA 1 of 28 Scotland's First Minister Nicola Sturgeon has her picture taken with the

Bertie Armstrong, chief executive of the Scottish Fishermen's Federation said: "This detailed analysis of these landing figures is a bombshell that reveals the truly shocking extent of how our rich fishing grounds have been given away in recent decades. "Brexit provides a sea of opportunity to breathe new life into our coastal communities by ensuring increased catching opportunities and fit for purpose management within our own EEZ." Warning against sacrificing fishing rights to maintain economic links he added: "It would be a monumental betrayal of our coastal communities if this opportunity was traded away in the forthcoming Brexit negotiations."

PA The Scottish part of the UK's EEZ covers more than 180,309 square miles

The Scottish part of the UK's EEZ covers more than 180,309 square miles, accounting for 61 per cent of the total.

Brexit provides a sea of opportunity to breathe new life into our coastal communities Scottish Fishermen's Federation CEO Bertie Armstrong

More than half (51 per cent) of the fish and shellfish landed from the Scottish part was caught by non-UK boats. They landed 386,000 tons from Scottish waters per year, worth £210 million. Earlier this year Scottish Rural Economy Secretary Fergus Ewing rejected fishermen's argument that ditching the Common Fisheries Policy could see the Scottish industry achieve its full potential.