http://www.news.com.au/national/south-australia/fatal-crash-driver-ian-peter-clarke-drove-defective-car-before-riverland-mother-was-killed/news-story/66e7f313b94053b93f2838102cced4c0
120
12
Andrew Hough The Advertiser

A MAN with a “disgraceful” motoring record should not have been driving his defective car when he was involved in a fatal car smash that killed a Riverland mother and seriously injured her son, a magistrate has ruled.

Ian Peter Clarke, 46, was charged with aggravated causing the death by dangerous driving of mother-of-two Leanne Smith, 51, on the Sturt Hwy, between Blanchetown and Truro in May last year.

He had also faced aggravated charges of causing serious harm to her son and passenger, Ryan Smith, aged in his 20s, during the collision with her Ford sedan at Annadale.

After prosecutors initially claimed he was affected by methamphetamine in his system and was driving at speed — allegations Clarke disputed — they this week dropped the serious charges.

Yesterday Clarke, of Elizabeth South, was convicted of driving his “defective” Ford GTE sedan while unregistered and uninsured after years of “consummate disregard” for road laws, prosecutors said.

The court heard police had warned him hours before the crash against driving the car, which had defects on areas including its tyres.

He faced a maximum fine of $5000 to $10000 for each of the three charges he admitted.

But he has spent 15 months in custody before being freed on Tuesday — the equivalent of a $45,000 penalty.

Clarke, supported by his elderly mother, sat expressionless in the public gallery as the court heard of charge sheet totalled 37 pages including one drive at dangerous speed conviction after being caught driving 217km/h in a Riverland 110km/h zone in 2014.

Sentencing yesterday, Magistrate Ian White said while he could not take into account the more serious charges, he told Clarke he should have driven before the crash that was a “final straw” to his appalling driving record.

“The plain fact is that if you did not drive that car on that day at that time, the Smith family would not have been so cruelly devastated by a death and serious injury,” he said.

“I am sure you are aware of the significance of being involved in a fatal accident. That will stay with you for the rest of your life.

“Your behaviour concerning road rules and licence privileges is a disgrace. It has been a disgrace for a long time. For a long time your defiance of the road rules has been littered throughout your life.”

He added: “Your disrespect of road privileges … led to you being involved in a fatal car accident.”

While imposing a fine would not “help the Smith family”, he convicted Clarke and banned him from holding a drivers licence indefinitely.

None of Mrs Smith’s relatives attended court. A family spokeswoman declined to comment last night.

Clarke did not comment outside court but in a statement through his lawyers, he “extended his “deepest sympathies”, adding: “There are absolutely no winners here.”