http://indianexpress.com/article/cities/pune/pmc-cancels-licence-of-balewadi-builders-2989343/
120
12
The registrations of the architect for the project and structural designer have been cancelled. The registrations of the architect for the project and structural designer have been cancelled.

THE PUNE Municipal Corporation has cancelled the registration of the builders who were developing the Park Xpress Building — slab of which collapsed last month killing nine labourers. The registrations of the architect for the project and structural designer have been cancelled.

Municipal Commissioner Kunal Kumar has directed to quash all the proposals of the four builder-partners of the project, which are pending at the Building Department of the PMC, thereby stalling all future projects involving the concerned builders, civic officials said today.

PMC has cancelled the registration of Arvind Jain and Shravan Agarwal of Pride Purple Group and Shamkant Wani and Kailas Wani Shrinivas Developers, architect Pradeep Kosumbkar and structural designer Hansar Parekh. The blacklisting means that they would not be able to work on any project within the PMC limits.

On July 29, nine labourers who were part of a group of 12 working on the 13th floor of the under-construction building had plunged to death after a portion of the slab they were standing on caved in. According to the Pune Municipal Corporation, the developer did not have any sanction to work on 12th and 13th floor and therefore, the work was illegal.

Later, a study by experts from the College of Engineering, Pune (COEP), based on their observations after the accident, stated that support to the shuttering structure was not provided as per the conventional requirements for construction of a slab at a height of 140 feet or 40 metres.

Meanwhile, a sessions judge has rejected the anticipatory bail application of architect Pradip Kosumbkar stating that the incident was grave and needs serious investigation. Last week, Additional Sessions Judge Y P Ladekar had rejected the anticipatory bail plea of four developers-cum-partners of Park Xpress. Till now, five people have been arrested in the case.