http://www.thestar.com.my/business/business-news/2016/08/18/intouch-deal-would-risk-firstever-singtel-downgrade-says-fitch/
120
12
SINGAPORE: Singapore Telecom-munications Ltd’s A+ credit rating would be at risk of being downgraded for the first time should the company acquire a stake in Thailand’s Intouch Holdings Pcl from Temasek Holdings Pte Ltd, Fitch Ratings said.

Temasek, the Singapore state investment company, was discussing a sale of its stake in the Thai telecommunications carrier to Singtel, a person with knowledge of the matter said on Tuesday. Singtel and Temasek declined to comment.

The parties saw that improvements in political and economic stability in Thailand had created the opportunity for a deal, the person said, asking not to be named as the process is private.

“Such an acquisition, if debt-funded, would further weaken Singtel’s net leverage, and may threaten its ratings, as ratings headroom is already low,” Janice Chong, a director at Fitch in Singapore, wrote in a report.

“The ratings headroom has been reduced over the years, more recently with the acquisition of Trust Wave last year. On top of that, capex investments have been rising in Australia and Singapore.”

Singtel, South-East Asia’s largest phone operator, bought a 98% stake in Trustwave Holdings Inc for US$810mil in 2015 as it seeks to expand in cyber security.

Temasek’s 40.5% stake in Intouch had a market value of about 80.8 billion baht (US$2.3bil) as of yesterday. Singtel shares headed for a second day of declines in Singapore, while the yield on its 2021 notes has climbed almost 7 basis points this week to 1.95%, according to Bloomberg-compiled prices.

A Singtel spokeswoman did not immediately respond to an e-mail requesting comment on the report by Fitch yesterday.

The Wall Street Journal reported earlier on Tuesday that Temasek was discussing the possibility of selling part of the state investment firm’s stake in Thailand’s Intouch to SingTel.

Temasek is Intouch’s biggest shareholder, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Intouch and Singtel own 40% and 23%, respectively, of Advanced Info Service Pcl, Thailand’s biggest mobile-phone company, the data show.

Singtel and its biggest shareholder held similar talks in 2014, when political tensions in Thailand scuttled deal prospects, said the person with knowledge of the matter. — Bloomberg